Report No. 386a-AL
Appraisal of                                                              fILE COPY
Bethioua Port Project
Algeria
May 13, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Europe, MiddIe East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRNCY E!QUIVALENTSV -  ,
Currency Unit             - Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$10.2443                - 11 1.00
US$1.0                    * DA&.093
US$244,300                - DÀA 1 milion
SYST3M OF WEIGHTS AND MNASURES
Traffia Data - Metric
1 meter (m)                  a 3.28 fest (ft)
1 kilometer                  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)         - 2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 ton of crude oil           - 7.33 barrels (b)
Water Depth - Meters at Mean Low Water Spring Tides (MNWST)
2/
ACRONYMS AUD ABBREVIATIDNS-
AFBSD            - Arab Fund for Economia and Social Development
BTU              - British Thermal Unit
CAHEL            - Compagnie Algerienne du Methane Liquide
CNAN             - Compagnie Nationale de Navigation
DI               - DirectoratS des Infrastructures
hPC              - Federal Power Commission (US&)
KfW              - Kreditanstalt fer Wiederaulbau
LNG              - Liquefied Natural Gas
IPG              - Liqu fied Petroleum Gas
MPWC             - Ministry of Public Works and Construction
ONP              - Office National des Ports
RPC              - Ralph M. Parsons Company (Consultants)
SONAKk.          - Société Nationale de Manutention
SONATRACH        - SooiVtst Nationale de Transport et de
Comercilisation des Hydrocarbures
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR GOVBFNMENT OF ALGERIA
FISCAL YE&R
January 1 - December 31
5{AdJusted as oftebruary 1, 1974.
1/Acronyma of organization names relate to Frenoh titles or organisations
as used in Algeria.



APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................                  i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION .......................................                     1
Il.    BACKGROUND .........................................                     2
A.    Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on
Transport .....................................                    2
B.    The Transport System ..........................                    3
C.    Transport Policy and Planning ....               .............     4
III.    THE PORTS ............................................                   5
A.   Facilities  ....................................                    5
B.    Traffic .......................................                    5
C.    Organization, Management and Operations               .......      5
D. Planning ..............                                               7
IV.    PORT DEVELOPMENT AND THE PROJECT  ...................                    7
A.   Port Development Plan .........................                     7
B.    Project Objectives  ............................                   8
C.    Project Description ...........................                    8
D.    Project Cost Estimate .........................                    9
E.    Project Financing .............................                   il
F.    Project Implementation ........................                   il
G.    Project Disbursements  .........................                  13
H.    Safety Measures  ...............................                  13
I.    Ecology and Urban Development .................                   13
J.    Possible Port Expansion .......................                   14
Messrs. A.A. Fateen (Engineer), A.H. Clark (Financial Analyst), 5.3. Fraisse
(Young Professional), H. Harries (Economist, Consultant) and Mrs. P. Valaca
(Editor) prepared this Appraisal Report.



-2-
TABLE 0F CONTENTS (Continued)
V.   FINANCES ..........................................    14
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .16
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .16
B.  Economic Approach ........................ 17
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .     .18
ANNEXFES
1.  World Demand for Natural Gas
2.   Algerian Gas Export Projects
3.  Gas-Export Contracts
4.  Port Facilities at Algerian Most Important Ports
5.   Traffic Through Main Ports
6.   Management Consultants' Services
7.  Port Development Plans 1970-73 and 1974-77
8.   Cost Estimates
9.  Estimated Project Expenditure
10.   Design Criteria
11.   Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and Construction
12.  Work Program
13.   Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
14.   Principal Tariffs of ONP
15.   Government's Financial and Economic Objectives for Public
Enterprises
16.  Assumptions and Bases used in Financial Evaluation
17.   Financial Evaluation Methodology
18.   Revenue and Cash Flow Forecasta
19.  Total Cost of Breakwaters and Dredging for Different Locations
of Main Breakwater
20.   Analysis of Number of Berths
MAPS
IBRD 10784 - Algeria - Transportation Infrastructure
IBRD 10785 - Project Location
IBRl1 10786 - General Layout



APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SUMNARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (Algeria)
became independent in 1962, the Bank has been involved in two of its trans-
port projects. The first, a US$33.1 million project for road improvement,
construction, and maintenance, was partially financed by a US$18.5 million
loan in June 1973 (912-AL). The second, a US$108 million project -.or pro-
curement of rolling stock and rehabilitation of railway track, for which the
Government has asked for a loan of US$49 million, is currently being prepared
in the Bank.
ii.       A third transport project is the subject of this Appraisal Report.
In 1971, the Government asked the Bank to help finance a project to expand
Arzew port so that sufficient facilities would be available mainly for na-
tural gas exports. In late 1972, the Government and the Bank found that
even expanded facilities at Arzew would not be sufficient to handle the large
quantities of natural gas now being committed for export. The Government
then decided that a new port should be constructed at Bethioua, about 6 km
east of Arzew, to export liquefied natural gas (LNG) to the United States
and Europe, and its by-products--condensates, liquid anmonia, and liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG)--and crude oil to the United States, Europe, Africa, and
Asia. The combination of the.new port, extensive proven recoverable reserves
of natural gas, and unique experience in liquefaction will enable Algeria to
become an active participant in the growing LNG trade.
iii.      The main elements of the project port are civil works and consul-
tants' services. Civil works include: construction of breakwaters, berths,
and a shallow draft basin; removal of two sea lines; and dredging of two
channels and the harbor basin. Consultants services comprise: project de-
sign; preparation of tender documents; construction supervision; and studies
of and training in port management, administration, operations and planning.
Training is an essential part of the project and will be provided for person-
nel from the three agencies involved in port operations: Office National des
Ports (ONP), Compagnie Nationale de Navigation, and Societe Nationale de
Manutention. To ensure full use of the port, Societe Nationale de Transport,
et de Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures, a national oil and gas enterprise,
will finance, procure, and install the necessary LNG plants, sea lines, pi?e-
lines, and loading arms.
iv.       The project cost is estimated at US$293.2 million, including con-
tingency allowances, domestic taxes, and customs duties and excludr.ng in-
terest on external loans during construction. The foreign excharge co.po-
nent is US$182 million, or 62%. Costs of the civil works have been derived
largely from completed detailed engineering and prices of similar works now



- h -
being completed at Skikda port; the cost of -he consulting services have been
based on fees for project preparation, expecued supervision terms of refer-
ence and estimated man-months required for management consultancy services.
v.        A US$70 million Bank loan to the Government is proposed for a 25-
year term, including 4 years of grace.  The Government has contracted from
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) a loan of US$20
million equivalent, and has issued to the Kuwait Investment Company bonds
in the aggregate amount of US$60 million equivalent. The Banque National
d'Algerie intends to contract from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
a loan for US$32 million equivalent. The Government will provide all other
funds needed for the project. Retroactive financing of US$4.5 million is
needed to cover preparation of preliminary and detailed engineering and bid-
ding procedures, and payments in foreign currency to the contractor before
loan signature. It will be shared between the financing partners, the Bank's
share being not more than USel.7 million.
vi.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Director-
ate for Infrastructure of the Ministry of Public Works and Construction, which
is considered competent. Consultants will be employed for construction super-
vision in accordance with the "Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and its
Borrowers"; they will be assisted by qualified counterparts. Consultants
designed the civil works, and contracts were put to tender in December 1973,
based on international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
"Guidelines for Procurement". Prequalification resulted in acceptance of
45 firms from 13 countries, including 3 firms from Algeria.  Tenders have
been received on March 18, 1974, and are being analyzed. Most probably,
a joint venture of foreign and Algerian firms will win the contract. Con-
struction is expected to start in June 1974 and to be completed by October
1977. Some LNG berths are scheduled to be completed before then and will
be put to use as ready. The project port will be operated by a management
authority to be designated by the Government before June 30, 1976.
vii.      In 1964 the Bank provided a US$20.5 million loan (378-AL) to help
finance construction of the first LNG plant in the world at the port of
Arzew, Since then, Algeria has developed an ambitious scheme for natural
gas exports, which has considerable economic benefits and i8 important for
further economic development. The project port is an integral part of that
scheme. For Algeria, earnings from the scheme will contribute to savings
and to development of other essential economie and social activities; new
jobs in natural gas operations and in port operations will provide employ-
ment for several thousand people. For importing countries, natural gas ac-
quired through the scheme will ensure supplies of needed energy.
viii.     No separate economic rate of return has been calculated for the
project port, since it is a part of the LNG export scheme.  The discounted
cash flow financial rate of return, for the 25 years' estimated economic
life, varies between 7.5% and 9.7%, depending on the base year adopted and
on the expected or mosé  >essimistic assumptions.  The Government has agreed
that the total inves. ent cost will be repaid to the Government by way of an
annuity for 25 years at 7-1/4% interest, commencing 1978. Tariffs at the
port will be set to meet these payments. Similar tariff levels will be set
at other oil and gas export ports.



- iii -
ix.       Port operations at general cargo ports, which ONP shares with two
other Government entities, require improvement and the project includes man-
agement consultant services to effect improvements and to_provide necessary
training. The project also includes consultant services for a master plan
for port development.
x.        On the basis of agreements reached during loan negotiations, the
project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$70 million to the
Government for a 25-year term, including four years of grace.






APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a port project intended for export of lique-
fied natural gas (LNG) to the United States of America and Europe and its
by-products--condensates, liquid ammonia, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)--
and crude oil to the United States, Europe, Africa, and Asia. Over the last
few years, natural gas liquefaction plants have been developed extensively
throughout the world as a result of the rapid growth of world demand for
energy and of the share of natural gas in the energy balance of industrial-
ized countries. Annex 1 discusses world demand for natural gas up to 1980.
With proven recoverable reserves of about 4,000 billion m3 and unique expe-
rience in the liquefaction field, Algeria is in an ideal position to actively
participate in LNG trade. Natural gas for commercial sale is produced cur-
rently from the Hassi R'Mel field (Map 10784), one of the woeld's largest
n3tural gas fields with a proven recoverable reserve of about 3,000 billion
m . The 1,000 billion m3 balance of the country's reserves is distributed
aimong eight other fields. Annex 2 gives information on Algeria's natural
gas export projects and Annex 3 describes natural gas contracts already con-
cluded and those being negotiated by Societe Nationale de Transport et de
Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH).
1.02      In October 1971 thè Government of the Democratic and Popular Re-
public of Algeria (Algeria) asked the Bank to help finance expansion of Arzew
port so that sufficient facilities would be available to export natural gas
to the United States, as provided in a contract with El Paso Natural Gas
(USA). In December 1971 a mission visited the country to idèntify the proj-
ect, but late in 1972 the Government and the Bank found that even expanded
facilities at Arzew would not be sufficient to handle the large quantities
of natural gas exports now committed. Construction of a new port was neces-
sary, and Bethioua, about 6 km east of Arzew (Map 10785), was chosen as the
location. A mission preappraised this project in July 1973.
1.03      The estimated cost of the project is US$293.2 million, including
a foreign exchange component of US$182 million. To help finance the foreign
exchange costs, a Bank loan of US$70 million is proposed. -The US$112 mîllion
balance will be financed by loans from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (AFESD), the Kuwait Investment Company (KIC) and Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). The Government will be the borrower and it will pro-
vide the balance of the project cost.
1.04      Other Bank involvements in the transportation sector are a highway
loan for US$18.5 million equivalent (Loan 912-AL approved June 19, 1973) ar-d
a request for a US$49.0 million railway loan, scheduled for board presentation
in late FY74.



-2-
1.05      This report is based on:  information from the Ministry of Finance,
SONATRACH, the Directorate for Infrastructure (DI) of the Ministry of Public
Works and Construction (MPWC) and the Office National des Ports (ONP); a 1970
feasibility study by the consulting firm Bechtel (USA) for the Algerian na-
tural gas export project, updated in 1972; a 1970 feasibility study by the
consulting firm Engelbrecht (Federal Republic of Germany) for identifying
the most suitable location on the Algerian coast for a petroleum and natural
gas port; a 1971-72 feasibility study by Engelbrecht for the proposed port
project:  1972-73 preliminary and fixial engineering by the consulting firm
Ralph M. Parsons Co. (RPC) (USA); results of 1973 hydraulic modal studies
by the consulting firm Tetra Tech (USA); 1973 soil investigations by the
consulting firm Dames & Moore (USA); and findings of an October 1973 Bank
appraisal mission composed of Messrs. A.A. Fateen (Engineer), A.H. Clark
(Financial Analyst), J.O. Fraï;sse (Young Professional), and H. Harries
(Economist, Consultant). Mrs. P. Valad (Editor) assisted in preparing
the Appraisal Report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on Transport
2.01      Algeria is divided into two distinct regions by the desert line.
The northern region, with about 20% of the land area and 90% of the 14.6 mil-
lion population, is economically more advanced than the southern region, with
80% of the land area and 10% of the population. The northern region comprises
the narrow but fertile coastal strip as vell as the semi-arid valleys and
rugged mountains of the Atlas chain, while the southern region includes the
vast desert that is part of the Saharan tableland. The transport system has
been largely determined by the country's geography and is relatively well
developed in the northern region, whereas few coumunication routes penetrate
the desert and many areas are inaccessible. Discovery of large petroleum and
natural gas deposits in the Sahara in the mid-1950's led to construction of
several pipelines from the deposits to the Mediterranean Sea.
I
2.02      After Algeria became independent in 1962, traffic declined tempo-
rarily while investments in transport infrastructure continued, resulting in
some excess infrastructure capacity. Since the mid-1960's, however, Algeria's
economic growth has accelerated and has generated an equally rapid expansion
in transport demand. Investments continued in certain new projects, mainly
connected with petroieum and natural gas exploration and export. But expend-
itures for improving and maintaining existing ports and road and rail networks
and for purchasing new equipment for cargo-handling and road and rail mainte-
nance were relatively low. As a result, operations in the commercial ports
have become unsatisfactory and sections of the road ant rail networks have
deteriorated and are now below standard for the traffic they carry. In ad-
dition, cargo-handlinç equipment, vehicles, and rolling stock are old. As
a first step towards -mproving the situation, the Government is according high
priority to maintaining and improving present infrastructure and purchasing
new equipment.



- 3 -
B. The Transport System
2.03      The transport system consists of:  8 commercial ports and about 20
fishing ports; a small fleet of seagoing ship6; about 3,700 km of petroleum
pipeline and about 1,100 km of natural gas pipeline; 4,000 km of railways and
about 79,000 km of national, regional, and local roads connecting major Algerian
cities, and connectîng Algeria with Tunisia and Morocco; and 3 international
and 10 secondary airports and 2 national airlines. Ports are discussed further
in Chapter III and details of other transport modes are given below.
Pipelines
2.04      Algeria has an extensive network of pipelines (Map 10784) for trans-
portinlg petroleum and natural gas from the Sahara to several Mediterranean
ports. Petroleum production increased substantîally after 1956 following
discoveries of major fields in the Sahara. Crude oil exports reached 48
million m tons in 1972, of which about 40 million m tons were via Algerian
ports and the balance via Tunisia, and were forecast before the recent in-
crease in petroleum prices to increase to 60 million m tons by 1980. No new
forecast are available since then. However, even if the quantity forecast
is not realized, total revenue from exporta is expected to be substantially
higher than originally envisagedi Natural gas exports already contracted by
SONATRACI are about 40 billion m  annually and are expected to rise to about
70-80 billion m3 in the near future. A natural gas pipeline from the Hassi
R'Mel field to the site of Bethioua port was constructed in 1973.
Railways
2.05      Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer AlgeriLens, an autonomous com-
pany in which the Goverriment is sole stockholder, operates the railways. The
network consists of about 4,000 km of track, including 2,700 km of standard
gauge and 1,300 km of narrow gauge. It comprises an east-west axis linking
Algeria with Rabat (Morocco) and Tunis (Tunisia), with branches to the coast,
and three lines into the interior, including an electrified ore line of 320
km. Passenger and freight traffic has been increasing since the mid-1960's,
and is expected to continue expanding with further development of the economy.
It is mainly concentrated in the northern region. Most freight traffic is
ore and phosphates.
2.06      Several track sections are in poor condition and require rehabili-
tation. Locomotive power and other rolling stock are partly obsolete and in-
sufficient in capacity. The Government is aware that additional rolling stock
and increased track rehabilitation are urgently needed to avoid decrea3ed ef-
ficiency, and it has supported a US$108 million project prepared by the rail-
ways for this purpose. In 1971, the Government asked the Bank for a US$49
million loan to help finance the project. The project was appraibed in
September 1973 and is scheduled for board presentation in late FY74.



-4 -
Roads
2.07      Northern Algeria has a vell developed network of six major high-
ways. Only a few lower class routes penetrate the vast arid Sahara Desert in
the south. The classified network consists of about 79,000 km of national,
regional and local roads, 45% of which is paved. In addition, an unclassified
network of tracks penetrates the Sahara. Traffic is largely concentrated in
the coastal area, vith most national roads carrying average daily traffic of
more than 1,000 vehicles.
2.08      Development of the road network has not kept pace with the rapîd
economic growth since the mid-1960's and roads have also deteriorated because
of poor maintenance and delay of essential improvement worka. The Bank-
financed project (para. 1.04) vill help to overcome the deficiencies.
Aviation
2.09      The country has 3 international airporte (Algiers, Annaba, and
Oran), 10 secondary airports with paved runways, some smaller local public
airports, and numerous private airports built mostly by oil companies.  Two
airlines, Air Algeria and Societe de Travail Aerien, offer international and
domestic flights. Although air transport has been increasing Most rapidly
and plays a vital role, especially in serving the more isolated centers, its
total share in the transport market is still modest. In recent years, ex-
penditures have been essentially for maintenance worke and otrengthening
of runways at major airports.
C. Transport Policy and Planning
Policy
2.10      Since Independence in 1962, the Goverument has a*ied to develop
the economy along socialist lines, under strong central control and vith
most of the transport sector in the hands of public enterprises. The main
instruments of development policy have been Four-Year Development Plans
as well as ordinary and investment budgets.
Planning
2.11      The Ministry of Planning is responsible for preparing the Develop-
ment Plans. In the 1970-1973 Plan, low priority was accorded to development
of transport infrastructure. But in the 1974-1977 Plan, the Government intends
to increase cônsiderably transport sector investments so that arrears in
reneval works for roada and railways can be eliminated. Expansion of port
facilities and rehabilitation of roads and railway track will play a greater
role in that Plan than 4 previous ones.
2.12      Investment planning suffers from several weaknesses, including in-
adequate data collection and project preparation as well as unsatisfactory
coordination and exchange of information between govertment agencies and



- 5 -
transport modes. Government's attempts to improve the quality of its plan-
ning have been hampered by a severe shortage of qualified staff. Until more
are available, Algeria will need assistance from foreign consultants. A joint
Bank/Fund mission has recently returned from Algeria after discussing with
officials at various levels the provision of advice and assistance in finan-
cial planning.
III. THE PORTS
A. Facilities
3.01      Algeria has eight main commercial ports (Algiers, Annaba, Arzew,
Bejaia, Ghazaouet, Mostaganem, Oran, and Skikda), as shown on Map 10784.
Annex 4 gives information about facilities in the most important ports.
Algiers is the major port, with berthing facilities totalling about 10 km
long and 8 to 12 m deep; it handles general ca go imports and exports.  The
cargoes which the other main ports handle are: Annaba--steel and iron ore
exports; Arzew--ammonia, crude oil, and LNG exports; Oran--general cargo
imports; and Skikda--ammonia, refined petroleum products, crude oil, LPG,
and LNG exports.
B. Traffic
3.02      Annex 5 shows traffic through the eight commercial ports for 1968-72.
General cargo handled declined. from 12.2 million tons în 1968 to 10.8 million
tons in 1972 and combined general cargo and minerals also declined from 14.9
million tons in 1968 to 12.5 million tons in 1972.  Petroleum products handled
increased, however, from 31.5 million tons to about 40 million tons during the
same period. Algiers handles about 30% of all general cargo traffic and Arzew
handles about 50% of all petroleum traffic. Because of lack of coordination
and exchange of information between ONF, public enterprises, and government
agencies, as well as a severe shortage of qualified ONP staff, realistic traf-
fic forecasts are available only for petroleum and natural gas traffic. The
Government is aware that properly prepared traffic forecasts are the basis for
port development planning. During loan negotiations, the Government under-
took to employ qualified consultants to assist in preparing a master plan for
Algerian commercial ports based on adequate traffic forecasts (see para. 3.06).
C. Organization, Management and Operations
3.03      Responsibility for ports and port operations, under the Žlir.istry
of Transport, is shared between:



- 6-
a)   ONP - created by Ordinance in May, 1971; it is a financially
autonomous legal entity, regulated as an industrial and com-
mercial public enterprise, and responsible for administration,
exploitation and development; and for port police, security
and pilotage;
b)   Compagnie Nationale de Navigation (CNAN) - a long-established
company in which the Government is the sole shareholder, owns
and operates all tugboats and controls berth allocations and
cargo movement and disposition;
c)   Societe Nationale de Manutention (SONAMA) - a Government
entity created in 1971, owns and operates general and dry bulk
cargo-handling equipment and undertakes all cargo-handling on
ship and shore.
3.04      General cargo port operations are inèfficient, with serious conges-
tion in transit and storage areas. Ship turnaround time is unusually long,
berth occupancy rates are high and ship delays frequent. Both the Government
and ONP are aware of these shortcomings and would welcome technical assistance
to improve the situation. The project includes technical assistance by manage-
ment consultants for studies to review present port operations and to recommend
improvements; training of personnel from ONP, CNAN, and SONOMA is also included.
Annex 6 gives the main outlines of the assistance program. During loan nego-
tiations, the Bank obtained an assurance from the Government that it will cause
management consultants acceptable to the Bank to be appointed before June 30,
1975 to carry out the assistance program under terms of reference to be agreed
with the Bank. SONATRACH is an efficient public enterprise which owns and op-
erates, under concession, pipelines and loading equipment for petroleum and
natural gas export. Similar arrangements will be made at Bethioua, but no tech-
nical assistance is needed for these operations.
Project Port
3.05      The port of Bethioua is a specialized port designed for the export
of LNG and other hydrocarbon products; it will not be used for general cargo
or other bulk cargo. Because of this and because of ONP's recent formation,
stage of development and onerous responsibilities regarding general cargo
ports, the Government has not yet decided whether to charge ONP with the
responsibility for administration of the new port, and other ports of like
nature. During loan negotiations the Government gave an assurance to the
Bank that it will, no later than June 30, 1976, make a decision on this matter
and charge ONP or some other agency as the Management Authority with the re-
sponsibility for the administration of the port of Bethioua and all other
ports specializing in the export of hydrocarbon products. The port master
plan study referred to in para. 3.06 will include a study and recommendation
as regards the Management Authority's structure.



D. Planning
3.06      The DI prepares four-year development plans for port infrastructure
and ONP prepares four-year capital expenditure budgets for replacement, re-
newal, and improvement of its own fixed assets. The methodology used by DI
to prepare its plan does not seem to be based on data used by the Ministry
of Planning to prepare the country's Four Year Plans, except for investments
needed to meet petroleum and natural gas exports. In preparing its plan, DI
has been concerned mainly with constructing major additions to existing facil-
ities at Arzew, Annaba, and Skikda for handling petroleum, natural gas and
ore exports. During loan negotiations, the Government undertook to employ,
not later than December 31, 1974, qualified consultants upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the DI in the preparation of a
master plan for Algerian commercial ports. Such plan will include, inter
alia, site investigations, traffic forecasts, development programs, prelim-
inary engineering, cost estimates, economic evaluations, financial analysis,
and propo3ials for tariff setting and organizational structure including that
of the Management Authority of Bethioua port. The Government also undertook
to consult with the Bank on the results of the study and on the steps to be
taken thereafter. The study will be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
IV. PORT DEVELOPMENT AND THE PROJECT
A. Port Development Plan
4.01      The Port Development Plan for 1974-77, prepared by DI, totals
DA 1,550 million (US$378.7 million) compared with its 1970-73 Plan for
DA 542 million (US$132.4 million). Annex 7 gives details of these Plans.
The 1974-77 Plan allocates DA 1,200 million for the proposed port project.
Thle financing plan for the 1974-77 DI Plan is as follows:
Source of Finance                                    DA Million
State Budget                                              806
External Financing (proposed project):
IBRD                                                 286
AFESD and KIC                                        327
KfW                                                  131
Total                                        1,550



B. Project Objectives
4.02      The project will:  (a) enable Algeria to meet its obligations for
the next 25 years under natural gas export contracts already concluded and
some of t.ose now being negotiated; (b) allow export of crude oil and by-
products àssociated with the natural gas export scheme; and (c) assist in
improving port management, administration, operations, planning, accounting,
and tariff setting.
C. Project Description (Map 10786)
4.03      The proposed project is the construction of a new port at Bethioua
and consists of:
(a) Civil Works:
(i) construction of
-    a main breakwater about 2 km long in water 25 m
deep at Mean Low Water Spring Tides (MLWST); 1/
-    two secondary breakwaters, each about 1 km
long reaching 20 m deep water at MLWST;
-    six berths for LNG export, three berths for
condensate and crude oil exports, and one
berth for LPG and ammonia exports; and
-    a shallow draft basin for harbor craft;
(ii)  removal of two of the three sea lines now existing at
the port site; and
(iii)  provision of supporting facilities (navigation aids,
access road, potable water, sewage treatment, power
and lighting, telecommunications, fire protection,
deballasting system and Harbor Master building).
(iv)  dredging of two leading channels to 25 m and of the
harbor basin to 25 m in front of the condensate and
crude oil berths and to 13 m in front of LNG and LPG
berths.
1/   Water depths in t is report are related to MLWST.  Tidal range is
0.6-1.0 m.



-9-
(b) Consultants' Services:
(i)  project design, preparation of tender documents, and
construction supervision;
(ii)  technical assistance for improving port management,
administration, and operations, and training of
personnel for ONP, CNAN, and SONAMA; and
(iii)  technical assistance for preparing a master plan for
Algerian commercial ports.
4.04      SONATRACH will finance, procure, and install for its own account
the following elements needed to insure the full use of the project port;
(see Annex 1 for Algerian Gas Export Project):
(a) LNG plants;
(b) sea lines to condensate and crude oil berths; and
(c)  pipelines and loading arms for exporting LNG, LPG,
condensates, crude oil and ammonia.
During loan negotiations, the Bank obtained an assurance from the Government
that it will cause SONATRACH to finance, procure, and install these elements
by the respective dates specified in para. 4.13.
D. Project Cost Estimate
4.05      The project cost is estimated at US$293.2 million.  It includes
contingency allowances, domestic taxes (about 17% of total project cost),
and customs duties. The Government does not intend to waive the taxes or
duties. The cost excludes interest on external loans during construction.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$182 million or 62%.
Annex 8 gives details of the cost estimate, which is summarized below, and
Annex 9 indicates phasing of expenditure spread in 1974-77.



- 10 -
Summary of Project Coat Estimate
Project Co0t
Project Element               DA Million               US$ Million         % of Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total        &change
A.  Civil Works
1.  Construction             293.8   386.0   679.8    71.8    94.3  166.1         56.8
2.  Dredging                  58e1   135.9   194.0    14.2    33.2    47.4        70.0
Subtotal A              351.9   521.9   873.8    86.0   127.5   213.5         59.7
r   Consulting Services
1.  Project Design and
Supervision            15.2    23.9    39.1      3.7      5.9     9.6       61.4
2.  Training and Studies       4.9     9.0    13.9      1.2     2.2     3.4       64h7
Subtotal B               20.1    32.9    53.0       4.9     8.1    13.0       62.3
C.  Contingency
Allowarices
1.  Pliysical (10% of A+B)    37.1    55.8    92.9      9.1    13.6    22.7       59.9
Price (19.4% of A+B)     45.9  13414  180,3    IL.2    32.8    44.0           74.5
Subtotal  C               83.0   190.2   273.2    20.3    46.4    66.7        69.6
Total Project Co0t       455.0  745.0 1,200.0   111.2   182.0   293.2         62.0
4.06      Cost estimates for civil works have been derived largely from
prices of similar works completed in 1973 at Skikda port and reflect cost
levels in April 1974. Costs of the consulting services have been based on
fees for project preparation as agreed upon with the Governient, and expected
supervision, management and Master Plan studies terms of reference. A physical
contingency of 10% on civil works has been allowed. Detailed engineering of
the project is available, but the possibility of encountering cavities (para.
4.11) at breakwater and berth sites may result in additional measures to be
taken to ensure the safety of these structures. The 10% physical contingency
includes cover for such measures. Price contingencies of 6% p.a. on local
costs and 12% for 1974, 10% for 1975 and 8% for 1976 and thereafter on foreign
costs of all project elements have also been allowed as these are the expected
percentage increases during project construction.  These price contingencies
take into account the recent increases in petroleum prices. The 6% p.a.
increase of local labor and material costs is reasonable because of Govern-
ment's heterogeneous system of gradually rising costs and controlled prices.
4.07      The foreign .change component is reasonable, considering conditions
in Algeria and abroad, and is based on the assumption that a foreign contractor
will win the contract. Most probably, however, a joint venture of foreign and



- il -
Algerian firms will win the contract.  In this case, major works are expected
to be assigned to the foreign firm, and no change in the foreign exchange com-
ponent would arise. During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank
discussed and confirmed the project cost estimates.
E. Project Financing
4.08      It is the Government's policy to execute and provide the finance for
all projects in its development programs, including commitments for external
loans and credits, and to hand completed projects over to the responsible en-
terprise ior operation. Consequently, the Government requested that the loan
be made to it. This has been accepted by the Bank. A Bank loan of US$70
million is proposed, for a 25-year term, including four years of grace. The
balance of the foreign exchange cost (US$112 million equivalent) will be
financed as follows: (a) a loan contracted from AFESD of US$20 million equiv-
alent, for 20 years including four years of grace, at 6% per annum; (b) bonds
in the aggregate amount of US$60 million equivalent issued to the Kuwait In-
vestment Company for 16 years, including four years of grace, at 7% per annum;
and (c) a loan to be contracted from KfW of US$32 million equivalent, for 30
years, including 10 years of grace, at 2% per annum. The Government will
provide all other funds needed to finance the project. A condition of effect-
iveness is that the conditions precedent, if any, to initial disbursements
under the AFESD and the KfW loan agreements shall have been fulfilled.
4.09      Retroactive financing, totalling US$4.5 million (of which US$1.5
million will be for preparation of preliminary and detailed engineering and
bidding procedures and US$3 million for payments in foreign currency to the
accepted contractor), is recommended from April 1, 1973 to July 30, 1974.
It will be shared between the financing partners. The Executive Directors
of the Bank have been informed of this request in IBRD/IDA Report No. SecN7-&9/4
"Monthly Operational Summary to Executive Directors" dated February 19, i974.
During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank discussed and confirmec'
the amount to be proposed for retroactive financing of which the Bank's share
would be up to US$1.7 million.
F. Project Implementation
Responsibility
4.10      The consulting firm Ralph Parsons Co. (RPC) designed the p 2ojecz;
Annex 10 gives design criteria. The DI of the MPWC will be responsibla for
carrying out the project, and is competent to do so (see Annex Il for >1PWC8z
organization). Consultants vill be employed to supervise construction.
During loan negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the Gover.eimen-:
that it will: (a) employ for construction supervision qualifiea consultanàs
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and (b) make qualified
counterparts available to work with them.



- 12 -
4.11      Land needed for the project is owned by the Government and will be
available for the project as needed. Borings at the project site indicate
the presence of loose calcareous sand, readily removable by normal dredging,
overlying strata of calcarenite/sandstone and marl, some requiring blasting
for removal. Borings also indicate some cavities in the calcareous sand
resulting from dissolution of its lime cementing agent by groundwater mi-
grating from land to sea. Additional borings at each foundation site vill
be carried out before construction begins, to determine what measures must be
taken to ensure the safety of the structures. During loan negotiations, the
Bank obtained an assurance from the Government that during construction of
the works included in the project, it will take all necessary measures to
ensure the safety and stability of such works.
Procurement
4.12      Procurement involves one main civil work contract only.  Prospective
bidders were prequalified in October 1973 and the contract for construction
and dredging was put to tender in December 1973, based on international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group "Guidelines for Procure-
ment". Prequalification resulted in acceptance of 45 firms from 13 countries,
including 3 firms from Algeria.  Tenders were received on March 18, 1974, and
are being analyzed. Most probably a joint venture of foreign and Algerian
firms will win the contract.  The Government will not accord such a joint
venture any margin of preference. Algerian firms recently started to be active,
on a small-scale, in port construction. Theîr collaboration with established
foreign firms will increase local capabilities over the long run by practical
training and experience.
Construction Schedule
4.13      Construction is expected to start in June 1974 and to be completed
by October 1977. Annex 12 shows the work program. To meet LNG deliveries
under contracts concluded and those being negotiated (Annex 2), LNG Berth
No. 1 (Map 10786) is required to be ready by mid-1976, Berth No. 2 by end-
1976, Berth No. 5 by mid-1977i Berth No. 6 by end-1977, Berth No. 3 by mid-
1978, and Berth No. 4 by mid-1979. Berths Nos. 1 to 3 are for the United
States market and Berths Nos. 4 to 6 are for the European market. The
above schedule is in accordance with the construction schedule of the LNG
plants. However, the total project is scheduled for completion by October
1977, with Berths Nos. 1, 2 and 5 handed over for use according to the above
schedule. Berths for condensate, crude oil, LPG, and ammonia exports should
be ready by end-1976. Depending upon the degree of hardness of rock encoun-
tered, completion of dredging may be delayed for up to about 6 months,
however, the dates expected for initial operations of the various berths
can be easily met. Such delay in dredging completion would increase the
total project cost by about DA 1.2 million (US$293,000). During loan negotia-
tions, the Government and the Bank discussed and confirmed the timing of
project execution.



- 13 -
G. Project Disbursements
4.14      Disbursements under the Bank, AFESD and KfW loans will be on the
basis of the percentage of each loan to the total foreign exchange component.
The proposed Bank loan represents 38% of the total foreign exchange component.
Therefore disbursements from the Loan Account for the civil works will be:
(a) 38% of the 57% estimated 'oreign exchange for construction; and (b) 38%
of the 70% estimated foreign exchange component for dredging. Disbursements
for the consulting services will be: (a) 38% of the foreign cost of project
design and supervision; and (b) 100% of the foreign cost of training and
studies. In accordance with the foregoing and the construction schedule of
project execution (para. 4.13), an Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
has been prepared as Annex 13. The Governnent and the Bank discussed and
confirmed the Schedule during loan negotiations. Surplus funds remaining
in the Loan Account after the project has been completed should be cancelled
because the proposed project is self-contained.
H. Safety Measures
4.15      To ensure the safety of LNG carriers, port facilities and adjacent
industrial complex, special safety measures should be taken for maneuvering
and berthing LNG carriers (see Annex 10, Part C). In particular, the use of
tugboats equipped with efficient fire-fighting equipment in berthing and un-
berthing should be compulsory.  The project does not include acquisition of
tugboats because an adequate number are stationed at Arzew and the Government
has agreed to assign the required tugboats to Bethioua port as soon as it
comes into use.  The Government and the Bank discussed and confirmed this
agreement. during loan negotiations. Also during negotiations, the Bank
obtained an assurance from the Government that it will cause the Managemenc
Authority for the port of Bethioua to take all steps necessary to ensure
safe operation of the facilities under its management at the said port.
I.  Ecology and Urban Development
4.16      Investigations by the consulting firm RPC showed that the LNG plaits'
cooling water (800,000 m3 per hour) will not adversely affect ecologicai co-i-
ditions in the area. During loan negotiations the Bank obtained an assurance
from the Government that it will take al! reasonable measures to ensure that
the execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due re<7zarà
to the safeguarding of the environnent and its biota, including pollution of
the harbor from land and vessel sources and unfavorable alter&tions of Lne
coastline resulting from changed current and tide patterns. The Bank also
obtained an assurance from the Government that it will, not later than
December 31, 1974, employ qualified experts to study the effects Gf the proJ-
ect on the ecological conditions in the area affected thereby, and will, after
consultation with the Bank, implement all reasonable recommendations of suca
study in accordance with its national development plan.



- 14 -
4.17      The project and its supporting industrial complex conform to the
planned urban development scheme for Bethioua.
J. Possible Port Expansion
4.18      The port has been so designed that its capacity can be increased
about 50% by further deepening to 16 m alongside the berths so that LNG
carriers of 200,000 m3 can be accommodated.  The berths have been designed
to accommodate ships of that size.
V. FINANCES
Port Tariffs
5.01      Uniform tariff rates were set in 1971 when ONP was created, prior
to wliich each port entity imposed its own tariffs.  Tariffs are not based
on costs of providing facilities or services. The principal tariff items
are given below; rates are detailed in Annex 14.
(a) Ships' Harbor Dues (Taxe de Peage), based on cargo loaded;
Berthage (Droit de Quai), based on ships' net registered
tonnage (NRT), including charge for extended stay;
Pilotage and Berthing (Amarrage), based on NRT;
(b)  Cargo - wharfage (Droit de Quai), per metric ton.
Financial Objectives (Annex 15)
5.02      Financial objectives for state enterprises have been prescribed in
principle by the Government. They cover a pricing policy on the basis of
current values of total fixed assets, an acceptable return on investment,
payment of income tax and mobilization of resources (profits and depreciation
resources) to facilitate nationwide planning and financing of development
projects.
Project Port'
5.03      Because the project port is being built to service specialized
requirements over an economic life of about 25 years, as determined by the
confirmed LNG contracts and proven recoverable reserves of natural gas, the
financial evaluation has been made on the basis of that limited economic
life. Further, since thp-e are at present no plans for extending the facil-
ities of Bethioua (al:l ,ugh further capital dredging could provide greater
water depths later, p.a 4.18), there is no reason for the management author-
ity to accumulate cash funds generated by operations at the port. Therefore,



- 15 -
a practical financial objective would be such as to enable the Government to
recover the whole investment on an annuity basis over the project's 25 year
life, at a reasonable interest rate; this would be in line with the Govern-
ment's financial objectives (para 5.02) and would provide funds to senrice
debt incurred for the project, pay a return on the Government's own equity
capital and return that equity for reinvestment in other projects.
5.04      The DCF rate of return, based on project costs, construction timing,
current tariffs and traffic forecasts, is 8.1%, 8.5% or 9.7%, depending on
whether the base year is taken as 1976, 1977 or 1978. The most probable
variables are that exports under contracts being negotiated for the produc-
tion from LNG plants Nos. 3 and 4 will be delayed by up to one year and that
completion of the port facilities to handle these exports will be delayed by
six months. On these assumptions the DCF rate of return would fall to 7.5%,
7.8% and 8.2% respectively.
5.05      During loan negotiations the Government gave to the Bank assurances
that it will cause the Management Authority to:
(a)  pay to the Government the equivalent of the total investment
cost of the project over a period of 25 years, commencing
December 31, 1978, or such other date as shall be agreed, at
a rate of interest not less than the rate of interest applicable
to the Bank loan; and
(b)  take all measures, including but not limited to adjustments of
dues, rates and other charges for services and facilities at
the Port of Bethioua, as shall be necessary to provide the
Management Authority with net revenues (before charging deprecia-
tion) sufficient to make the above payments.
5.06      This investment is financially self-liquidating.  The interest rate
is higher than rates for other financing for the project (para 4.08), some
of which is on concessionary terms, and would help to ensure that the economic
benefits of the project and of the gas export scheme ,as a whole accrue to the
economy of the country.
5.07      The range of rates of return given in para 5.04 are adequate and
provide a margin for a 7-1/4% annuity. This is borne out by financial account-
ing forecasts.  The annuity factor is about 8.8%, requiring annual payments
of DA 113 million on total investment (including interest during construction)
of DA 1,287 million. Cash generation commences in 1976 and by 1978 there
would be a cumulative surplus of DA 115 million after meeting the rirst year's
annuity payment.  Thereafter, there would be moderate annual surpluses of
about DA 12 million. Annex 18 gives a combined revenue and cash flow srate-
ment. No allowance has been made for cost increases above those already
included in the cost estimate, since it is assumed that tariff rates will be
adjusted to meet the financial objective. The bases and assumptions used in
the forecasts are given in Annex 16 and the methodology of the financial
analysis in Annex 17.



- 16 -
5.08      During loan negotiations the Government also gave an assurance to
the Bank that it would ensure that tariffs and charges, similar to those refer-
red to in para 5.06, are applied to all Algerian ports specializing in the
export of oil and gas and their by-products.
5.09      The Government further gave aEsurances that the Management Authority
will keep itS financial accounts in accordance with appropriate accounting
practices and that the annual financial statements of the Management Authority
will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Bank
agreed that the Controle Financier de l'Etat wculd be acceptable auditors for
this purpose.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01      Under the Algerian natural gas export scheme, SONATRACH has made or
is negotiating commitments for 1,755 1/ billion m3, or 44%, of Algeria's proven
recoverable reserves. Of the total, it has committed 810 billion m3, or about
20%, for export via Bethioua and Skikda. Based on the committed contracts and
those being negotiated about 900 billion m3, or 30%, of proven recoverable
reserves from Hassi R'Mel field will be exported via Bethboua over the next
25 years. World demand for natural gas is continuously increasing (Annex 1),
but Algerian demand is hard to predict although it is unlikely to exceed 2%
of proven recoverable reserves over the next 25 years. To satisfy expected
increasing foreign demand, specialized firms are now exploring for new na-
tural gas fields. 2/
6.02      The project port is an integral part of the Algerian natural gas
export scheme, which has considerable benefits for the Algerian economy (Annex
3). The scheme is important for further development of the economy and the
Government estimates net earnings at US$60 billion over the next 25 years.
These earnings will contribute to the country's savings and to development
of other çssential economic and social activities. The scheme will provide
immediate employment for several thousand people in gas production, transport,
and transformation, as well as in port operations. Therefore, it is to
Algeria's economic advantage to exploit this valuable resource now, while
foreign demand is high. Importing countries will also benefit by insuring
supplies of needed energy.
1/,  About 562 m  of natural gas at atmospheric pressure and temperature is
equivalent to one m3 of LNG (at - 162° C).
2/   The natural gas ar  eetroleum exploration program includes contracts
between SONATRAC>  and:  (a) Elf/ERAP (French State Company) covering
3,282 sq mi; (b) Aquitaine (France), 3,260 sq mi; (c) Deminex (Federal
Republic of Germany), 9,650 sq mi; and (d) Kopez (Polish State Ol
Agency), undisclosed area.



- 17 -
B. Economic Approach
Traffic
6.03      Traffic through Bethioua port will be LNG and its by-products
(condensates, liquid ammonia, and LPG) as well as crude oil. Two types of
LNG that cannot be mixed will be manufactured for the United States and
European markets by four liquefaction plants along the shore adjacent to the
port.  Condensates will be produced at Hassi R'Mel field and transported to
the port by a special pipeline. Liquid ammonia will be prepared at a plant
east of the ING plants. LPG will be produced as a by-product from the LNG
plants. Finally, crude oil will be exported via the pipeline now connecting
the oil-fields to the three existing sea-lines (two of which have to be
removed).
6.04      Based on LNG contracts already concluded and those being negotiated,
LNG expor4s to the United States and Europe via Bethioua will be 8.9 million
m3 in 1976 rising to 71.2 million m3 in 1979 and thereafter. Condensate
exports to the United States, Europe, Africa, and Asia will be 13.5 million
tons in 1976 and will reach a maximum of 16.7 million cons in 1979. Liquid
ammonia traffic will be 360,000 tons in 1977 and thereafter, of which 120,000
tons will be for Algeria and 240,000 tons for Europe, Africa, and Asia. LPG
exports will be: 1976, 100,000 tons; 1977, 350,000 tons; 1978, 600,000 tons;
and 1979 and thereafter, 800,000 tons. SONATRACH has forecast the exports
of condensates, liquid ammonia, and LPG. Crude oil exports from Bethioua
port (apart from those from the remaining sea-line) will be 14.7 million tons
annually from 1976 and thereafter to replace present exports through the two
sea-lines to be removed.
Least-Cost Analysis
6.05      Benefits directly attributed to the port cannot be calculated be-
cause the port forms an integral part of the overall gas scheme. Under these
circunstances, the objectives were to find the least-cost solution for re-
quired port facilities and to establish the port as a viable financial entity.
Various alternative designs were considered for the port and its major compo-
nents. For reasons explained below, the proposed project was selected as tne
best solution.
6.06      Port layout is constrained by the oceanographic environment as weil.
as by operational, navigational, and safety requirements, and it is a function
of cost optimization principles. The two most important cost variables, which
have an inverse but complex relationship, are those of the main breakwater and
dredging including rock removal. As the distance of the main breakwater from
the shore increases, construction cost increases and dredging required de-
creases (offshore layout). Conversely, as the distance of the main breakwater
from the shore decreases (that is, if it were built in shallow water), dredging
required in the channel and harbor as well as costs for protection and/or
maintenance of the channel increase (near-shore layout). If the main break-
water were placed in an intermediate position (middle-distance layout), costs



- 1: -
of the main breakwater and loading piers decrease to less than those associated
with offshore layout and dredging costs decrease to less than those associated
with near-shore layout.
6.07      Several port layout concepts were analyzed, based on operational
requirements, performance characteristics, and capital cost of facilities.
Dual-entrance versus single-entrance and effects of removing one or more of
the existing sea-lines in the port were taken into account. As an extreme
alternative, a layout was also studied in which the main breakwater would
be built -in 38-40 m of water, thus avoiding the need for dredging. Studies
indicated the most economical layout would be middle-distance breakwater
layout and dual-entrance.
6.08      Annex 19 gives total cost of breakwaters and dredging for different
locations of the main breakwater. It shows that if the distance of the main
breakwater from shore were 1,000 m, total cost of breakwaters and dredging
would be DA 810 million; if 1,300 m from shore, DA 700 million; and if 1,800 m
from shore, DA 960 million.  The least cost solution, 1,300 m from shore, was
selected for the proposed project.
6.09      Annex 20 gives the analysis of the number of berths required based
on the capital and maintenance costs of berths as compared to ships waiting
time.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues discussed in
Chapters III, IV and V, and in particular:
(a)  technical assistance for improving port management,
administration, and operation and training of personnel
(para 3.04);
(b) technical assistance for preparing a master plan for
port development (para 3.06);
(c) project financing plan (para 4.08);
(d)  amount of retroactive financing (para 4.09); and
(e)  method of recovery ff investment cost through tariffs
(para 5.05).
The project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$70 million to the Government
for a 25-year term, including four years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
World Demand for Natural Gas
1.        World consumption of primary forms of energy grew at the high annual
rate of 5.5% during the 1960's. This reflected strong growth in industrial
activity, transport needs (particularly expanding use of automobiles and jet
aircraft), energy-intensive innovations, less efficient energy usage, and rel-
atively low energy costs, particularly for oil and (in North America) gas.
World energy consumption is foreseen to slow down during the 1970's to about
5% annually and by the second half of the 1970's to about 4.2% annually, re-
flecting decelerated economic growth in some industrial countries, increased
energy costs, constraints on international oil supplies, environnental con-
straints on development of energy resources, more efficient energy usage,
and structural changes in consumption patterns. Three areas-North America,
Western Europe and Japan-accounted for 62% of total energy consumption in 1970
and are foreseen to account for 58% by 1980. 1/
1/   Source:  IBRD paper "Some Implications of Rising Trend in Petroleum
Prices for Developing Countries, 1970-1985", December 20, 1973,
pp. 2-3 (under cover of SecM73-769, "Petroleum Prices", December
20, 1973).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.        The following graph gives trends of major sources in world energy
consumption, 1950-1975:
70%        _       _      !
60- - oj 1
50  
40%é0
30%          _    _       _             Coal
20                    . Ntu1
Gas
10 
1 _  Water and Nuelear
O)                _ _ ___ _ _Power
195    1955    1960   196    19~70   1975
Source:  Rene Bordet, "LNG Prospects in World Markets",
World Petroleum, December 1971. Mr. Bordet is
Chairman and General Manager of GAZOCEAN, Paris.
3.        World oil demand in 1970 was about 41 million barrels/day (b/d).
It is expected to be about 49 million b/d in 1973 and about 70 million b/d
in 1980, based on a 5.3% annual growth rate. 1/
4.        In 1972 natural gas provided about 20% of world energy requirements.
The following table summarizes world reserves of natural gas, by area, 1967-1971:
1/   Ibid.(page 1).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Area                            1967      1968     1969      1970     1971
…----- billion m3--
North America                        9,570    9,485    9,260    9,745    9,465
Central and South America            1,10    1,760    1,925    2,035    2,060
Western Europe                      k4,710    4,900    4,900    4,920    4,790
Africa                               2,765    3,285    3,850    4,500    4,470
Middle East                          6,225    9,040    9,260   10,085   10,035
Far East and Pacific                 1,095    1,175    1,455    1,670    2,170
USSR and Eastern Europe              8,250    9,550   12,570   12,635   16,350
Total                          34,525   39,195   4322049 340
Source:   Dr. P.H. Frankel, "World Wide Gas Trade", Petroleum Press Service,
August 1972.
5.        In 1965, North America had 37.8% of proven natural gas reserves 1/
followed by: the Middle East, 24.3%; the USSR and Eastern Europe, 11.7%;
Africa, 8.1%; Western Europe, 7.6%; Central and South America, 7.2%; and the
Far East and Pacific, 3.3%. By the beginning of 1972, the USSR and Eastern
Europe had taken the lead with 32.6%, followed by: the Middle East, 19.9%;
North America, 18.7%; Africa, 11.2%; Western Europe, 9.4%; Central and South
America, 4.2%; and the Far East and Pacific, 4.0%. At that date, the total
was distributed among countries as follows: the USSR, 31.5%; the USA, 15.6%;
Iran, 11.6%; Algeria, 6.1%; and the Netherlands, 4.8%.
6.        Natural gas production has risen sharply in recent years, 1/ from
590 billion m3 in 1962 to 1,260 billion m3 in 1971. In 1971, the USA was the
leading producer, 646 billion m3, followed by: the USSR, 210 billion m3;
Canada, 84 billion m3, Venezuela, 53 billion m3; the Netherlands, 43 billion
m3; and Iran, 35 billion m3. By 1980, world production or consumption of gas
is expected to exceed 3,550 billion m3 annually.
7.        Industrial nations, mainly the USA, Western European nations, and
Japan, have the highest demand for natural gas, and this situation is not ex-
pected to change. The USA and Western Europe have less than 30% of proven
natural gas reserves, but they consume more than 70% of the amount produced
annually. Growing interest in reducing pollution gives LNG a new advantage,
whiclh is bound to increase, over coal and petroleum. In the future the USA,
Western Europe, and Japan will be large importers of natural gas. A brief
review of the potential market for natural gas in each of these areas gives
a clearer picture of the supply alternatives.
l/  'Problems in the LNG Trade",  ?etroleum Press Service, November 1973.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
8.        In the USA, natural gas constitutes the most important source of
thermal energy. The natural gas share of the energy market grew from little
more than 10% at the close of World War II to nearly 33% in 1970. This growth
was at the expense of coal, and was possible largely because the cost of na-
tural gas was low compared to the cost of other fuel. A number of forecasts
exist of the future supply and demand for natural gas in the USA. The follow-
ing table is representative:
Source                                          1970      1975        1980
------billion m -------
Domestic
Ail but North Slope                                617.5     560.3       461.3
North Slope                                          -         10.5       33.1
Synthetic pipeline gas                               -         -          15.6
Foreign
Canada                                              23.5      32.5        32.5
Mexico                                               1.4        1.4         -
Other Countries (Algeria, Venezuela, etc.)           1.1        9.9       73.6
Total gas supply and demand                     643.5     614.6       616.1
Source:  United States National Petroleum Council Initial Report.
9.        In Western Europe, demand for natural gas is expected to increase
faster than demand for ail types of energy together. Natural gas accounted
for 7%, or 85 billion m3, of the energy market in 1970; it is expected to
account f3r 13%, or 310 billion m3, by 1980.  In 1970, nearlN all of the 85
billion m  consumed was indigenous, except for 1.5 billion m  imported by
France and the United Kingdom from Algeria. But during 1970-80, indigenous
gas is expected to supply over 90% of requirements, with the remainder imported.
10.       Availability of indigenous supplies will be the main factor affecting
development of the European natural gas market. To establish a position for
natural gas in the European market, it will be substituted for and/or comple-
mentary to other forms of energy. This can mainly be done on a price basis--
allowing for any premium by virtue of its intrinsic properties. On a price
basis, indigenous natural gas competes fully with other fuel in the thermal
energy market. Natural gas imported into Europe may not be able to command
significant price premiums: however, with a forecast annual consumption of 310
billion m3 by 1980 and total reserves of 4,790 billion m3, natural gas imports
are expected to increase considerably.
11.       In Japan, natural gas is not now a significant fuel, having a share
of barely 1% of the primary energy market. Its main uses are non-thermal, in-
cluding feedstock for manufacturing chemicals (59% of demand in 1970). Thermal
uses in 1972 were: towr 6as blending, 18%; industry, 17%; and electric power
generation, less than . . In the future, imported natural gas will be entirely
for thermal uses, with electric power generation taking nearly 70% and town-
gas blending the remainder. The Japanese Natural Gas Association estimates



ANNEX 1
Page 5
that in 1980 the share of natural gas in the energy market will be about 7%,
or 280 billion m3. A market of this magnitude will exist, however, only if
natural gas remains competitive with alternative fuels-allowing for any
premium by virtue of its intrinsic qualities.
12.       Countries importing natural gas may be supplied by three methods:
pipeline, methanation, or liquefaction. Methanation and liquefaction are the
methods to supply the USA. Additional pipelining will be possible in the
foreseeable future only from Mexico and Canada, but pipelining from Central
and South America cannot be entirely discounted. All or any of these uethods
may be used to supply Western Europe or Japan (if the proposed Algerian-Italian
sea-line under the Mediterranean proves satisfactory).
13.       Determination of whether natural gas will move by pipeline, methana-
tion, or liquefaction clearly is based on the cost of gas at the point of use.
Much evidence suggests that proven natural gas reserves in Abu Dhabi, Algeria,
Australia, Ecuador, Indonesia, Iran, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Sarawak,
Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela (major sources) are commercially attractive to
the USA, Western Europe, and Japan.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Algerian Gas Export Projects
1.   Introduction
The development of natural gas liquefaction projects throughout
the world is in part a consequence of the rapid growth of the share that
natural gas has in the energy balance of industrial countries. At this date
there are no less than 39 LNG projects, either developed, developing or under
study. Algeria with unique experience in this field is in an ideal position
to participate. The recoverable reserves of natural gas in Algeria are now
in the order of 4,000 billion m3.  These reserves provide a substantial devel-
opment base.
2.   The Camel Plant
Algeria's first gas liquefaction plant came on stream in 1964 at
Arzew, the Bank helped finance its construction with a US$20.5 mil: ion
loan (Loan 378-AL). The plant, the first LNG plant in the world, is oper-
ated by the Companie Algerienne du Methane Liquide (CAMEL). SONATRACH holds
a 49% interest in CAMEL. The gas supply for CAMEL comes from the Hassai R'Mel
field which is owned by SONATRACH. The CAMEL plant can supply about 1.5 bil-
lion m3 of natural gas 1/ annually and the LNG is sold f.o.b. Arzew under a 15
year contract; two thirds to the British Gas Council and one third to Gaz de
France. The LNG taken to the British Gas Council is shipped to Canvey Island
(England) by two 27,400 m3 LNG carriers, "Methane Princess" and "MetaIane
Progress". LNG for Gaz de France is delivered to Le Havre (France) by the
25,500 m3 "Jules-Verne."
3.   The Skikda Plant
Algeria's second gas liquefaction plant is at Skikda. The plant
also receives natural gas from the Hassi R'Mel field. The plant is owned by
SONALGAZ in which SONATRACH's interest was increased to 100 percent in December
1971. The first three production units have been in operation since early
1973, and each has an annual capacity of LNG output equivalent to 1.3 billion
m3 of natural gas. The gas from these units is shipped to Fos-sur-mer for Gaz
de France and to Boston (USA) for Distrigas under 15 and 20 year contracts,
1/   Each one m3 of LNG (at -162'C) is equivalent to about 562 m3 of natural
gas at atmospheric pressure and temperature.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
respectively. A fourth unit of the same capacity is under construction, under
a lump sum turnkey contract for US$50 million equivalent and is scheduled for
completion in August 1974. The gas from this unit will be shipped to Barcelona
for Gas Natural (Spain) with which SONATRACH signed, in early 1972, a 20 year
contract. SONATRACH is negotiating for the construction of the fifth and sixth
units to deliver LNG to Eascogas LNC Inc. (USA), vith which it signed in May
1972 a 20 year contract. The contract has received conditional approval from
the FPC in December 1973.
4.   The Fethioua Plant
In October 1969, SONATRACH signed a 25 year contract with El Paso
Natural Gas (USA), which calls for the delivery of 10 billion m3 of natural
gas annually to the east coast of the United States. The contract has re-
ceived approval from the FPC and financing of the investments requiried has
been arranged with the Exim Bank and US Commercial Banks. SONATRACH will
develop the field and plant facilities and deliver the liquefield gas and
related by-products to the proposed port at Bethioua. This site vas selected
or the recommendation of Consulting Engineers, Engelbrecht (Federal Republic
of Germany) who made a detailed study of ten alternative locations on the
Algerian coast. A 40-inch pipeline to carry the gas from Hassi R'Mel to the
plant (510 km) has been completed anid construction by CHEMICO (USA) of the
first LNG plant (US$350 million equivalent) started in July 1973 and is
scheduled for completion by mid-1976, when the first shipment of LNG to El
Paso is due.
Late in 1972, SONATRACH signed a contract with a European consortium
of gas companies, for the supply of 15.5 billion m3 of natural gas per year
over 20 years beginning in 1977, including an option on an additional three
billion m3 annually. This buying group represents French, German, Belgium,
Swiss and Austrian interests. It is reported that the contract has received
the approval of the respective governments and arrangements for financing the
project are apparently complete. To meet LNG deliveries under this contract
a second LNG plant will be built at Bethioua. Bids for that plant have been
received and are being analyzed by SONATRACH. Total cost is estimated at
US$350 to 400 million.
SONATRACH has also signed a second contract with El Paso for the
supply of another 10 billion m3 of natural gas. The first deliveries are en-
visaged for 1978. Deliveries require the construction of a new pipeline from
Hassi R'Mel and a liquefaction plant similar in size to that being constructed
to meet requirements under the first El Paso contract. Application was made
in the Spring of 1973, for import authorization from the FPC. Hearings started
in November, however, because no decision had been taken by the FPC by December
31, 1973, SONATRACH availed itself of its rights in draft contract with El Paso
to re-negotiate the terms of the contract. Preliminary conversations have al-
ready started.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Finally, in December 1972, SONATRACH signed a heads of agreement
with Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co. (USA), to sell to them 4.5 billion m3 of
natural gas annually over a 20 year period, beginning in 1979. Gas will be
shipped to the U.S. Gulf Coast and from there it vill be piped via existing
lines to existing customers. A contract is reported to have been signed in
November 1973, and Panhandle Eastern filed its application for authorization
by the FPC. This application is likely to be pending for some months.
5.   Other LNG Contracts
Additional contracts have been under discussion. During October 1973,
SONATRACH signed an agreement for the delivery of 4.5 billion m3 of natural gas
annually to Gas Natural (Spain) over a 20 year period. In October 1972 an
agreement in principle was reached with ENI (Italy) for the delivery of 11
billion m3 of natural gas annually to Southern Italy over a 25 year period.
It is proposed to construct a pipeline from Hassi R'Mel to Cap Bon (Tunisia)
and then via submerged sea-lines across the Sicily Channel and Messina Straits
to the Italian mainland. A further contract covering 12 billion m3 annually
with a second European Consortium headed by Ruhrgas (Germany) over a 20 year
period was also agreed upon in principle in October 1973.
6.   Traffic Through the Port of Bethioua
It is anticipated that the port facilities at Bethioua will be used
almost exclusively for outbound shipments of crude oil, natural gas and related
products. LNG will constitute the major tonnage and is expected in the volumes
shown in the following table. Two types of LNG are produced; one type for the
European market, a slightly different type for the American market. They use
separate loading facilities.
Estimated Natural Gas Shipments - Port of Bethioua
(billion mn3 annually)
Destination                          1976     1977      1978      1979 and after
American Market                        5       10.0     15.0           20.0
European Market                                7.5      15.0           20.0
Total                             5      17.5      30.0           40.0
In the process of producing natural gas in the Hassi R'Mel field,
large volumes of condensate are also produced. SONATRACH expects to pipe
these condensates from the field separators to the Port of Bethioua vhere
they will be exported. The following table indicates the condensate volumes
that SONATRACH expects to market.                                   1



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Anticipated Condensate Shipments - Port of Bethioua
(Annual Volumes)
Year                        million tons
1976                             13.52
1977                             14.89
1978                             16.03
1979                             16.71
1980                             15.18
1981                             13.88
1982                             12.84
1983                             11.71
1984                             9.85
1985                              8.90
There will be generated large quantities of LPG, consisting of
propane and butane. The annual forecast traffic of LPG fromtBethioua vill
rie as follows:
Anticipated LPG Shipments - Port of Bethioua
(Annual Tonnage)
Year                              Tons
1976                             100,000
1977                            350,000
1978                            600,000
1979 and thereafter             800,000
In addition to the LNG, condensates and LPG it is expected that 14.7
million tons of crude oil and 360,000 tons of anhydrous ammonia vill be shipped
from the Port of Bethioua annually.  About 120,000 tons of ammonia will be
shipped to other Algerian ports and the balance, as well as the crude oil,
will be exported.
7.   The Price of LNG
While there have been a number of contracts signed for the export
LNG from Algeria, the prices are generally not revealed.  The initial El
,so contract, the Eascogas contract, and the Distrigas contract are public
~,Xun~ens and the terms and conditions of sale are known.  In December 1973
the Algerian Minister of Industry and Energy, stated 1/, that the recent ENI,
Jas Natural and Ruhrgas contracts start with a plant gate price equivalent
to US$0.o5 per million BTU 2/.
The Oil and Gas Jou'- Âl, December 17, 1973, "Algeria May Renegotiate
LNG Pacts".
' F lach one million BTU is produced by about 1,000 ft3 (about 28.2 m3) of
àp.:ai gas.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The first El Paso contract is for a period of 25 years. The base
sales price is 30.5 cents per million BTU. 80% of this price is firm and
beginning with September 15, 1971, 20% of the base price may be escalated by
future increases in two selected US Bureau of Labor indices. These indices
are the index of wages in the petroleum industry and the United States cost
of steel mill products.
The Eascogas contract employs a different pricing formula. Expressed
in terms of US cents per million BTU delivered f.o.b. Algerian port, the basic
sales pricie is 45.75 cents. Under the pricing formula, this basic sales price
is subject: to a definite escalation of 1.5% annually beginning as of 1973.
There is also a currency exchange rate formula related to the commercial rate
of exchange of the US dollar at a given point of time 1/. The Contract sales
price is calculated as of the first business day of each month.  In accordance
with the pricing formula, the currency exchange formula is applied to the es-
calated basic sales price as of such date to determine the price of all deli-
veries taking place during such month. If the application of the currency
exchange formula for the determination of the Contract sales price yields a
result which is less than 45.75 cents per million BTU, the Contract sales
price shall be taken as being equal to 45.75 cents per million BTU. Thus,
under Article VIII of the contract, the basic sales price per million BTU is
45.75 cents subject to a 1.5% compounded increase once each year., and to the
application of the currency exchange rate formula once each month.
During the past year there have been dramatic increases in the
price of world crude oil. The prices of natural gas, which have historically
had a tendency to lag behind the BTU equivalent value of oil, are in many in-
stances far out of line with current oil prices. If natural gas usage develops
as expected and is increasingly in direct competition with oil (e.g. for elec-
tric power generation), then it is reasonable to expect an upward revision of
gas wellhead prices to reflect this competitive circumstance. Natural gas
sales are usually on a long-term contract because of the costly specialized
facilities required, and because both supply sources and demand tend to be far
less flexible than in the case of crude oil,. the general price trend of gas
follows the lead of oil but in a rather deliberate fashion.
/   This arrangement is similar to that approved for Canadian gas sold by
Westcoast Transmission Company Limited to El Paso Natural Gas Company
for transmission in the latter's Northwest Division. There, the contract
sales price is related to the currency exchange rate of the US dollar in
Canada.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
8.   The Co0t of the Facilities
A reasonable estimate of the cost of the facilities to produce,
transport and process the natural gas to be exported from Bethioua, can be
obtained from existing sources. Bechtel prepared a preliminary engineering
and cost study in 1970 for the first El Paso export project. In July 1972,
those cost estimates were updated. A firm contract was awarded in 1973 by
SONATRACH to CHEMICO for the construction of the first liquefaction plant
at Bethioua, at very close to the estimate and the second plant has been ten-
dered at rates which appear to be lower on B unit basis. Using Bechtel's
figures for estimating the costs, the follouing table 1/ gives a swmary of the
total probable capital investment. Local taxes paid to the Government by
SONATRACH which is a public company have been excluded.
Gas Export Project
Total Probable Investment in
Field Facilities, Pipelines, Liquefaction
Plants, and Storage and Loading Facilities
(in Million US$ equivalent)
1.   Field Facilities - Hassi R'Mel
Direct Costs                                    244
Other Costa                                      44
288
2.   Pipelines
Direct Costs                                    354
Other Costs                                      52
406
3.   Liquefaction Plants, Loading Arms
and Storage                                                     1,170
4.   LNG Port Facilities*                                                 50
Total                                                       1,914
say                                                        2,000
*    This covers SONATRACH and CNAN investments and does not include the
proposed Bank project because it is expected to be financially viable.
1/ miiis economie analysis is based on the use of Bethioua for the export of
40 billion cubic meters of LNG per year for a period of 25 years. The
volumes envisagei  cre:  the first El Paso, the second El Paso, the Euro-
pean Consortium Axd Panhandle Eastern contracts.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
The operating costs associated with the initial El Paso contract up
to the point of delivery of the product to the ship side, were estimated by
Bechtel in 1972, to be US$29.5 million annually. The volume under discussion
is four times the amount in the El Paso deal and in the absence of significant
economies of scale a figure of US$118 million may be taken as the full stream
operating cost for a representative year i.e. 1980. The life of the contracts
vary from 20 to 25 years and a depreciation rate of 4% per year produces an
annual cost of US$76 million.
Most of the foreign currency to be used in the construction of the
facilities is financed by short-term loans and is relatively expensive. For
comparative purposes a rate of 9% is taken as the cost of capital, or US$144
million during the year 1980. This figure drops to US$73 million by 1990.
9.   Revenues and Returns
The total estimated volume of gas shipments each year is the equiv-
alent of 40 billion m3. This may be otherwise stated in terms of millions of
BTU's as 1,412 trillion BTU. The estimated 1980 operating cost of the total
production facility plus depreciation plus the interest on borrowed money
(at 9%), amounts to US$338 million. The break-even point before allowing any
return for the natural gas is 23.9 cents per million BTU. If the invested
capital changed by the amount of the annual depreciation, the break-even cost
in 1990 would be 18.9 cents per million BTU's.
The break-even cost estimated of 23.9 and 18.9 cents per million
BTU in 1980 and 1990 respectively, does not take into account the revenue
^redits earned by either the condensate or the LPG. Most of the costs of
producing both these products are included in the annual expenses of US$338
million. Such items as the pipelines to carry the condensate from the field
or its storage facilities at Bethioua do not appear to be in the cost. The
revenue from condensate and LPG could be very substantial. The 1980 produc-
tion of 16.7 million tons of condensate is the equivalent of 122 million
barrels. At a stabilized price of $10 per barrel (based on January 1974
prices of crude oil) this amounts to nearly US$1.22 billion. The annual
volume of LPG has been estimated to be 800,000 tons in 1980. It has not
been possible to assess a reasonably correct price for that commodity.
10.  The Impact on the Algerian Economy
The prices of LNG to be exported from Algeria are generally not
revealed. Moreover it is hard to predict future price escalation as well as
future contract prices especially since those will reflect the recent increase
in crude oil prices. However, based on confirmed gas export base prices f.o.b.
Algerian ports (US$0.305 per million BTU for the first El Paso contract and
US$0.4575 per million BTU for the Eascogas contract) and those recently re-
vealed by the Government (US$0.65 per million BTU for the ENI, Natural Gas
and Ruhrgas contracts), and on the schemels capital investment and operating
expenses, the scheme is undoubtedly beneficial to the Algerian economy. The
Government estimates its total earnings from the scheme at US$70 billion over
the next 25 years, against total expenditure of US$10 billion during the same



ANNKX 2
Page 8
period. The scheme will provide immediate employment to several thousand
people in gas exploration, transportation and transformation; in related in-
dustrial activities and in port operation. It vill also provide needed
energy to the importing countries.



ANNE 13
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALG&RIA
Gas-Rxvort Contracte
Quantity/
Year      Del:Lvery   Period of  Port of
Buzrer           (billion m3)   Date       Contract  Delivery   Destination
A. Contracte toncluded
British Gah  Council           1.0        1954         15      Arzew      Canvey Island
Gaz de Frar,ce                 0.5        19q54         15      Arzew      Le Havre
Gaz de Frarce               1.5 to 3.5    1972/75       15      Skikda     Fos-sur-mer
Distergas (USA)                2.0        1971          20      Skikda     Boston
Gas Natural. (Spain)       0.5 to 1.5    19774/79       20      Skikda     Barcelona
Bascogas L}IG Inc. (USA)    3.0 to 6.o    1976/79       20      Skikda     US East Coast
El Paso Natural Gas (I)       10.0        1976          25      Bethioua   US East Coast
European Ccnsortium (I)       15.5        1977          20      Bethioua   Austria, Belgium,
France, Federal
Republic of
Germany, and
Switzerland
B. Contracta Leing
NeEotiate d
El Paso Natural Gao (II)      10.0        1978          25      Bethioua   Being Discussed FPC
Panhandle Eastern
Pipeline Co. (USA)           4.5        1979          20      Bethioua   US Gui! of Mexico
Coast
Gas Natural (Spain) (II)       4.5        N.A.         20       N.A.       N.A.
ENI (Italy)                   11.0        N.A.          25      Via        Southern Italy
Tunisia
European Consortium (II)      12.0        NAk.          20      N.A.       N.A.
Source:  SONATRACH
May 1974






ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Port Facilities at Algerian Most Important Porte
1. At Algiers
The port has two entrances and i8 protected by five breakwaters
totalling about 5 km long:
-    from north-east by a breakwater 1,290 m long;
-    from east by a breakwater 1,500 m long;
-    from south-east by a breakwater 1,304 m long; and
-    from south by a breakwater 1,000 m long.
All breakwaters are of the mound type protected by 50 to 250 t
concrete blocks. The port comprises three basins:
-    the old port having an entrance 176 m wide and 22 m
deep, a water area of 74 hectares (ha), and berths
totalling about 3 km long and are 2.5 to 12 m deep;
-    the Agha basin 6.5 to 10 m deep having berths totalling
about 2.8 km long; and
-    the Mustapha basin having an entrance 240 m wide and
16 m deep, a water area of 75 h and berths totalling
about 2.7 km long and are 7 to 11 m deep.
The port has 48 berths totalling about 10 km long, of which 37 are
for general cargo and 11 for special cargo. Out of the 48 berths, 15 have
depths exceeding 9 m.
The port land area is 119 ha and is served by railways 27 km long.
There are about 30 transit sheds totalling about 77,000 m2 in area, 30 refined
oil tanks totalling about 160,000 m3 capacity and eight wine tanks totalling
36,000 m3 capacity.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The port has several slipways and two dry docks one for ships of up
to 136 m long and 8 m draft and the other for ships up to 75 m long and 5 m
dra£t.
The floating equipment available in the port includes five water
barges, 10 tug boats 150 to 1,000 hp, five pilot boats, two floating cranes
85 and 400 t capacity, 76 barges 20 to 250 t capacity, one small suction dredger
and two hopper barges. Cargo handling equipment includes 60 quay cranes 2 to
12 t capacity, 32 mobile cranes, 52 tractors, 276 trailers and 141 forklift
trucks.
2.   At Annaba
The port has two basins:
-    the small basin having a water area of about 10 ha and
berths totalling about 1.3 km long and 8.5 to 10 m deep; and
-    the main basin having a water area of about 40 ha and berths
totalling about 2 km long and 8.75 to 10 dee,.
The port land area is about 107 ha, 50% of which ie occupied bv
2
the industrial zone. Transit sheds are limited having a total area of 2,100 m .
There are a grain silo 18,000 t capacity and a wine tank 300 t capacity.
Equipment available in the port include special handling equipment
for iron ore, coal and phosphate; two tug boats 700 hp each; two floating
cranes 110 and 8 t capacity and 10 mobile cranes 3 to 7 t capacity.
3.   At Arzew
The port has an entrance 400 m wide and 20 m deep and is protected
by two breakwater 1.2 km and 1.1 km long extended to a depth of about 18 m.
The port land area i8 limited to 24 ha. Berths are highly special-
ized and include one pier with two berths for loading LNG, one berth for loading
armonia, two berths for loading crude oil and refined oil 13.5 and 15.5 m deep
and four berths for general cargo totalling about 700 m long and are 9 to 10 m
deep. There are three mooring stations for loading crude oil. They are si-
tuated in 20 to 25 m deep water, 850 m apart and at about 1.5 to 1.8 km dis-
tance from the shore. They are connected to the shore by several sea-lines
20 to 40 inches in diameter.
Equipment available in the port include six tug boats 1,500 to
2,500 hp, four floating cranes 10, 50, 100 and 125 t capacity and 12 cranes
2 to 25 t capacity.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
4.   At Oran
The port is protected by two breakwaters 2.8 and 0.5 km long.
The entrance is 190 m wide.  The port comprises six basins; 7, 10, 15, 16, 17
and 24 m deep.
The port water area is about 120 ha and its land area is about 71
ha of which about 43 ha are used for storage purposes. The port has 37 berths
totalling 5.2 km long of which about 3.5 km having a depth from 9 to 12 m.
There are 38 transit sheds totalling about 70,000 m2 in area, a grain silo of
30,000 t capacity and four wine tanks totalling 534 m3 capacity.
Equipment available in the port include two tug boats 500 and
750 hp, fuel-oil barge 600 t capacity three floating cranes 30 to 100 t capa-
city, 29 quay cranes 1.5 to 6 t capacity, 21 mobile cranes 2 to 13.5 t capacity,
28 tractors and 39 forklift trucks 1.5 to 4 t capacity.
5.   At Skikda
The port is protected by two breakwaters 1.75 km and 0.6 km long.
It comprises two harbors: the old one for general cargo and the new one com-
pleted in 1973 for LNG, LPG, amonia and crude oil exporte.
The port comprises eight berths: three for crude oil exports, two
for LNQ exports, one for LPG export, one for ammonia export and one for general
cargo import and export. The port land area is about 42 ha. There are nine
transit sheds totalling 7,900 m2 in area, a grain silo 20,000 m3 capacity and
a wine tank 150 m3 capacity. Equipment available in the port includes two tug
boats, a floating crane 100 t capacity, eight quay cranes, 5 mobile cranes 4
to 10 t capacity, 21 tractors, 84 trailers and 24 forklift trucks 2 to 8 t
capacity.






-ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF
BETRIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Traffic Through Main Ports
(Thousand Tons)
Port                            I101968 Export    Import   Export    Import 1970               Import   Export   Import 972Exort
Algiers
General Cargo                  1,645     1,864       1,887     2,072     1,904       809      1,935       629     2,323        676
Petroleum Products             1,844         31      1,877       566     2,295     1.19         842     1,201        85     1,463
Total                          3,489     1,895       3,764     2,638     4,199     2,200     2,777      1,830     2,408     2,139
Annaba
General Cargo                    461        391        767       646     1,132       952      1,252       682     1,464        864
Minerals                         _        2,703        -       2,202       -        1,379       -       1,602       -       1,770
Total                            461      3,094        767     2,848     1,132      2,331     1,252     2,284     1,464     2,634
Arzew
General Cargo                    139     4,415         193     3,339       130     2,406         60     2,034        20     2,038
Petroleum Products               -       14,853        -      18,493       -      16,075        240    18,080       213    19,237
Total                            139    19,268         193    21,832       130    18,481        300    20,114       233    21,275
Be.jaia
General Cargo                    158        690        286       566       367       622        309       143       340         93
Petroleum Products               -      14,550         -      14,750       -      16,080         90    13,187        85    12,043
Total                             158    15,240        286    15,316       367    16,702        399    13,330       425    12,136
Ghazaouet
General Cargo                     14       172           8       221         8       197          7       164        34       162
Mustaganem
General Cargo                    122       318         106       347       174       376        205       188       198       272
Oran
General Cargo                    919       520         905       643     1,075       785      1,124       367     1,318       385
Skikda
General Cargo                    267       103         243        79       323        73        386        79       515         73
Petroleum Products               218       -           242       -         25        - _        260       -         268     6,469
Total                            485       103         485        79       576        73        646        79       783     6,542
For the above Ports:
Total Ceneral Cargo              3,725     8,473       4395    7,913       5,113     6,220      5,278     4,286     6,212     4,563
12,198               12,308              11,333                9,564              10,775
Total General Cargo              3,725   11,176        4,395        10,115  5,113    7,599      5,278    5,888      6,212     6,333
and Minerals                       l4,901                14,510              12,1712              11,166              12,545
Total Petroleum Products         2,062    29,434       2,119    33,809     2, 548   3546        1,432    32,468       651    39,212
31,496               35,928              36,094               33,900              39,863
Grand Total                       5,787    40,610      6,         ,924     7,661      ,14       6,710    36,356     6,863   45,545
46,397               50,430              47,86                45,066              52,408
Source: The Ministry of Transport and ONP.
Mai 1974






ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Management Consultants' Services
Provisional Scope of Work
Phase I        Problem Identification
(a) Organization Analysis and Evaluation
(i) Office National des Ports (ONP)
(ii) Societe National de Manutention (SONAMA)
(iii) Compagnie Nationale de Navigation (CNAN)
(b) The respective functions and interrelationships of ONP, SONAMA and
CNAN; their relationships with port users and the national labor
syndicate (BCM)
(c) Focus on
(i) general cargo ports
(ii) existing specialized ports (e.g. Arzew, Skikda)
(iii)  the project port, Bethioua
(d) Series of recommendations in broad general plan
Phase II    Detailed Programming of Specific Programs
(a) Reorganization plan, to include possible realignment of present
entity roles and responsibilities plus labor
(b)  financial and cost accounting and statistical systems; financial
management; tariff structures and rates; management information
systems; capital programming; internal audit
(c) operations planning
(d) data processing systems, including computers
(e) training programs



AXNEX 6
Page 2
Phase III   Implementation
Note      It is envisaged that operating and financial systems and training
will be limited to Algiers, in the expectation that the companies
themselves will be able to extend the new programs to other ports.



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PIDJECT
ALGERIA
Expenditures on Port Development Plans 1970-73 and 1974-77
DA Thousand
Port                                         1970-731/         1974-772/
Annaba                                       135,000            35,000
Alger                                         17,000            25,000
Arzew                                         10,000            45,000
Betlhioua                                           -        1.,200,000
Mostaganem                                    18,000            20,000
Oran                                          15,000            35,000
Skikda                                       277,000            90,000
Tipaza                                        12,000              -
Fissheries Ports                              38,000            30,000
Niavigational Aids                            20,000            20,000
Studies                                          -              50,000
Total                              542.,000        1,550,000
1/
Actual.
As proposed by JLrectorate for Infrastructure to the hinistry of Planning
Source:  Directorate for Infrastructure
May 1974



ANEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Cost Estimate
Project Cost                % of
Project Element                     DA Million               US$ Million          Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Echange
A. Civil Works
1.  Construction
(a) Main Breakwater           131.4   174.3   305.7    32.1    42.6    74.7        57.0
(b) Secondary Breakwaters      85.1   109.7   194.8    20.8    26.8    47.6        56.3
(c) Piers and Berths           63.8    83.6   147.4    15.5    20.5    36.0        56.9
(d) Supporting Facilities-l/    9.8    13.1    22.9      2.5      3.1     5.6      55.3
(e) Service Port                2.9     4.5      7.4     0.7      1.1      1.8     61.1
(f) Sealine Removal             0.8      0.8     1.6     0.2      0.2     0.4      50.0
Subtotal 1.               293.8   386.0   679.8    71.8    94.3   166.1        56.8
2. Dredging
(a) Soft Material
(6.6 million m3)           12.3    28.2    40.5      3.0      6.9     9.9      69.7
(b) Hard Material
(1.6 million m3)           45.8   107.7   153.5    11.2    26.3    37.5        70.1
Subtotal 2.                58.1   135,9   194.0    14.2    33.2    47.4        70.0
Subtotal A.               3 1.9   521.9   873B    U6.0   127.5   213.5         59.7
B. Consulting Services
1.  Project Design              0.9      5.9     6.8      0.2     1.5      1.7     88.2
2.  Project Supervision        14.3    18.0    32.3      3.5      4.4      7.9     55.7
3.  Training and Studies        4.9      9.0    13.9      1.2     2.2      3.4.    64.7
Subtotal 3.                20.1    32.9    53.0      4.9      8.1    13.0      62.3
C.  Contingency Allowances
1l  Physical (10% of A+B)      37.1    55.2    92.9       9.1    13.6    22.7      59.9
2.  Price (19.4% of A+E)       45.9   134.4   180.3    11,2    32.8    44.0        74.5
Subtotal                   83,0   190,2   273,2    20.3    46.4    66.7        69,6
Total Project Cost        455-0   745.0 1,200.0   111.2   182.0   293.2        62.0
V/
These include navigation aids, access raod, potaLle water, sewage treatment, storm
drainage, power and lighting, telecommunications, fire protection, deballasting
system and Harbor Master building,
Source: Consultant estimate as revised by mission.
May 1974



ANNEZ 9
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Estimated Project Expenditure
Calendar               DA Million                        US$ Million
Year          Local    Foreign    Total        Local      Foreign    Total
1974           51.4      82.5    133.9          12.5        20.2      32.7
1975          152.3     245.6    397.9          37.0        60.2      97.2
1976          163.0     262.3     425.3         39.6        64.4     104.0
1977           88.3     154.6    242.9           22.1       37.2      59.3
Total.        455.0    745.0   1,200.0          111.2      182.0      293.2
CGoverDaent Financing of Interest During Construction
DA Million                   US$ Million
1974                            1.7                            0.4
1975                           13.2                            3.2
1976                           28*2                            6.9
1977                           40.5                            9.9
1978                           16.5                            4.0
Total                          100.1                          24.4
Source: Consultante' Estimate as revised by mission.
May 1974






ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Design Criteria
A.   Characteristics of Ships Using the Port
Ships of different type, size and capacity will be required to
handle the port traffic.
1.   LNG Carriers
(a) Types, Cost and Size of LNG <2 rriers
There are presently seven LN( containment systems approved by
Lloyd's Register. The most prominent types are the Membrain - integral type
(Gas Transport, Technigas, Conch) and the Spherical tanks type - (independent
type, Moss Rosenberg). The cost of a 125,000 m3 LNG tanker of the first
type is about US$100 million if constructed in USA and about US$75 million
if constructed in Europe as compared to US$90 million and US$70 million,
respectively, for the second type.
During the last ten years th<e size of LNG carriers has risen from
26,000 m3 to 125,000 m3. The following table summarizes the present state
of the World LNG fleet (19 vessels):



ANISBX 10
Page 2
Capacity  Groas Reg.  Length  Bean  Draft   Speed
year  Name of Carrier and Shipyard            (m3)    Tonnage     (m)   *()   (m)   (knots;
1958 Methane-PLoneer (France)                5,100      5,058      103.3  15.2   7.2     9.5*
1964 Methane-P:rincess & Methane Progress
(France)                            27,1400    21,876      189.3  24.8  7.9    17.2*
1965  Jules Venie (France)                  25,500     22,292      201,0  24.7   7.3    17.5*
1969 Polar Aladka & Artic Tokyo (USA)       71,500     44,089      243.3  34.0 10.0   17.0
1969  Esso Brega, Porto Venere, Liguria
& Laleta (USA)                      40,000    30,1455      207.9  29.3   8.7    18.0
1971 Descartes (France)                     50,000    32,100       220.0 31.8   9.2    18.0*
1972  hassi-R'mel (France)                  40,000     28,235      191.5  29.2   9.1    17.6*
1972  Gadania, Gadila, Gari & Gaztrana
(France)                           75,000       N.Ao       259.0 35.0   9.5   17.0
1973  Charles Tellier (France)              40,000     28,000      191.5  29.2   9.1   17.6*
1973  Hull No. 176 (Norway)                 30,000      N.A.       180.0  29.2   N.A.  19.2
1973  Hul] No. 196 (Norway)                 87,60o      N.A,       249.5  40.0 10.4   19.5
*Algerian route,



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) LNG Carrier Trends
Exportable gas surpluses in the 1970's and 1980's will exist in
North Africa, the Middle East, USSR, Nigeria, Southeast Asia, Southwest
Pacific, Venezuela and Trinidad. The main import areas will be USA, Japan
and Western Europe. Short-term projections indicate that the total LNG
fleet will have a combined capacity of 5.2 million m3 in 1977, as compared
to 936,000 m3 in 1973; a 5.5-fold increase in only four years.
The following table gives the existing capacity and an estimate
of future 1/ orders of LNG carriers up to 1977:
LNG Carrier Capacity (m3)
Cumulai:ive         Additional           Total
Additional      Capacity Lased       Capacity Based      Cumulative
Capacity          on Orders           on Options         Capacity
Existing          -              936,000                                936,000
1974        484,600         1,420,600                  -            1,420,600
1975        510,000         1,930,600              595,000          2,525,600
1976        365,000         2,295,600            1,040,000          3,930,600
1977        207,600         2,503,200           1100,000           5,238,200
1,567,200         2,503,200           2,735,000          5,238,200
0f the additional fleet envisaged up to 1977, three vessels are less than
40,000 m3 capacity, nine are between 40,000 m3 and 88,000 m3, 58 are 120,000
m3 or 125 000 m3 capacity and five are 165,000 m3 capacity.  Most of the
120,000 m and 125,000 r- vessels are expected to be built in France and USA,
but some will be built in Norway, Japan and Italy.
Longer term LNG demand forecasts are widely debated and the result-
ing projections concerning the future LNG fleet can only be approximate bet-
ween a lower and higher level as indicated below:
1/   Source:  Consultants Feasibility Study derived from the "Economist
Intelligence IUnit Ltd." QER Special No. 12.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Possible Ship Requirements by Mid and Late 1980's /1
(Reference ship:  125,000 m3 capacity and 18 knots average speed)
Market                          Low Estimate               High Estimate
USA                                   40                        100
Japan                                 25                         50
Western Europe                        10                         20
Total Number                          75                        170
The following table indicates the main characteristics of the world
LNG fleet for those vessels in service or planned:
Capacity (m)              Length (m)     Beam (m)      Draft (m)
40,000                    191.5          29.2           9.1
75,000 /2                259.0           35.0           9.5
87,600                    249.5          40.0          10.4
125,000 /3                285.5           43.7          11.0
200,000 (Planned)          340.0          48.0          13.5
/1   Source:  M.W.H. Peebles, LNG 3 Conference and Ocean Industry,
November 1972.
/2   Bethioua/Europe (European Consortium Contract).
7T   Bethioua/USA (El Paso Contract).
(c) LNG Carriers Using Bethioua Port
To satisfy the El Paso I contract, nine 125,000 m  LNG carriers are
being built; three in France, scheduled for completion in 1975; and six in
USA, scheduled for completion in 1976. LNG from Bethioua to Europe (European
Consortium contract), will be transported by carriers of 75,000 m average
capacity.  LNG berths at3Bethioua are designed to handle this size of vessels,
as well as the 200,000 m vessels in future by further (deepening) dredging
in front of the berths.
2.   Crude Oil Tankers
(a) World Tonnage Forecasts
Oil tanker requirements are forecast to reach 300 million dwt by
1980, as compared to 125 million dwt in 1971; an expansion of 250% in nine
years. The annual growth rate is expected to be about 13% until 1975 (needed
capacity about 200 million dwt) and then 8% until 1980. Main areas of oil
needs will be USA, Japan and Western Europe, and main area of oil surplus
will be the Middle East



ANNEX 10
Page 5
At the end of 1971, the average ocean-going tanker was rated at
45,800 dwt with a speed of 15.8 knots. However, for future projections, the
reference vessel is a 250,000 dwt tanker with an approximately identical speed
of 15.5 knots.
(b) Size Trend
For nearly 20 years after World War II, the T-2 oil tanker was the
standard for this type of ships. Its basic characteristics are:
Dead Weight (t)    Draft (m)    Lengtlf (m)    Beam (m)
16,600             9.15           160          20.7
The average characteristics for tankers under 150,000 dwt are:
Dead Weigth (t)        Draft (m)         Length (m)        Beam (m)
15 to 30,000          9 to 10.0         155 to 175        20 to 26
30 to 50,000         10 to 12.0         175 to 220        26 to 33
50 to 80,000         12 to 14.5         220 to 240        33 to 37
80 to 100,000        14.5 to 15         240 to 250        37 to 42
100 to 140,000        15 to 16.5         250 to 290        42 to 47
Mammoth tankers are over 100,000 dwt began to appear in the mid-1960's.  By
1974 there will be 779 tankers of 100,000 dwt or over, of which more than 400
will be over 200,000 dwt. Their average characteristics are:
Dead Weight (t)      Draft (m)      Length (m)       Beam (m)
150,000            16.0            295            48
175,000            17.0            307            50
200,000            17.9            315            52
225,000            18.5            330            54
The two largest tankers in existence are the Nisseki Maru and the recently
launched (February 1973), Globtik Tokyo, with the following characteristics:
Dead Weight (t)   Draft (m)   Length (m)   Beam (m)
Nisseki Maru       372,400            27.2        347.5          61.9
Globtik Tokyo      477,000            28.0       379.5           62.2
The three largest tankers recently ordered, or announced are two 540,000 dwt
vessels for Shell from Chantiers de l'Antlantique of Saint Nazire, France
(for delivery in 1976), and a 706,000 dwt tanker ordered by Globtik Tankers
of London from Ishikawajima-Ilarima, Japan (for delivery in 1977).



ANNEX 10
Page 6
(c) Oil Tankers Using Bethioua Port
The planning of the proposed port requires the removal of two of
the three existing sea-lines currently used for loading crude oil. A berth
for crude oil will be constructed to replace the lines to be removed (see
Map 10875). Based on the envisaged crude oil traffic through the port (14.7
million tons annually), and its destinations, tankers ranging between 50,000
dwt and 250,000 dwt will be used. Thie berth is designed to handle such range.
3.   Condensate Tankers
(a) Size Trend
Condensate tankers come under the general category of oil tankers.
Consequently, a large number of those condensate tankers are not accounted
for in separate statistics. Some vessels have been converted from oil to con-
densate and this transformation is relatively easy to accomplish, and could
become more frequent, depending on the evolution of energy demands.
(b) Condensate Tankers Using Bethioua Port
Based on the maximum volume of condensate exports (16.7 million t
in 1979) and their destinations (USA, Europe, Africa and Asia), the following
sizes of tankers are envisaged:
(j) 50,000 dwt tankers for the European and African markets;
(ii)  100,000 dwt tankers for the American and Asian markets,
between 1976 and 1980; and
(iii) up to 250,000 dwt tankers for the American and Asian
markets after 1980.
Consequently, one of the two condensate berths is designed to handle tankers
of 50,000 to 150,000 dwt and the other to handle tankers of 100,000 to
250,000 dwt.
4.   LPG and Ammonia Tankers
Based on forecast annual exports of LPG (800,000 t), and Ammonia
(360,000 t), the following sizes of tankers will use Bethioua port:
(i) for LPG, tankers ranging between 35,000 m3 and 70,000 m3;
(ii) for ammonia headed for Algeria, tankers of 6,000 dwt; and
(iii)  for ammonia headed for Europe, Africa and Asia, tankers of
12,000 dwt.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
B.   Structural Design Criteria and Loads
1.   Structural Design Criteria
Maximum wind velocity                83 km/hour (45 knots)
Seismic loading                      0.12 g
Maximum Tide range                   1.0 m
Approach velocities of ships         0.075 m/sec for 200,000 ton and
larger ships
0.10 m/sec for ships between 100,000
and 200,000 tons
0.15 to 0.20 m/sec for ships less
than 100,00 tons
Approach angle for ships             5 degrees for ships of 100,000 tons
or larger
7 degrees for ships lesa than 100,000
tons
Maximum horizontal angle of
mooring lines (from ship's bow
or stern to outer mooring
dolphin)                             350
Maximum vertical angle of
mooring lines                        450
Ultimate strength of each cable    63 tons
2.   Loads
The following loads shall be combined appropriately:
(a) Breakwaters
Wave height                     10.3 m (crest to trough)
7.75 m (crest to still water)
Lateral force due to
design wave                     28 t/m2 at 0.00 water level
Current forces                  negligible
(b) Platforms and Trestles
Live Load (traffic, etc.)   0.75 t/m2
Equipment Load (except loading arms) - 0.375 t/m2



ANN   10
Page 8
Seismic Load - 0.12 x g
(Transverse or Longitudinal)
Temperature Range -  40°F
Wind Load = 0.10 t/m2
(c) Berthing Dolphins
Springline Pull - 50 t
Wind Load = 0.10 t/m2
Seismic - 0.12 x g (Transverse and Longitudinal)
Live Load - 0.25 t/m2
(d) Mooring Dolphins
Cable Load - Cable strength at 100 t/hook
Seismic Load - 0.12 x g
Live Load - 0.25 t/m2
C.   Safety Considerations
LNG carries with molded hull heights of about 25 m and drafts of
about 11 m are quite difficult to manoeuvre under vindy conditions and in
confined areas. The dual-entrance harbor will permit access from either
direction as weather or hazards require. Certain general safety measures
should be taken, the most important of these measures are:
(1) Each ship must be manoeuvred into berthing position using
tug boats. The ship should be moored in such a way that
the bow faces the harbor entrance to facilitate maneuvers
in an emergency. Qualified pilots should be employed for
this purpose.
(2) In no case should any vessel (tugs or ships) or any hot
point (motors or vehicles) come within less than 75 m of
any LNG carrier during filling operations because of gas
leaks which may occur.
(3) The minimum distance between piers should be 375 m. Berths
should be provided with four breasting dolphins and two
mooring dolphirq. Because the LNG carriers have a very
large freebi a, the mooring dolphins should be arranged
so that the *ngle of the mooring cables does not exceed
25 degrees from horizontal.



ANNEX 10
Page  9F
(4) When two LNG carriers are moored simultaneously on either
side of the double berth piers, special safety measurea;
must be taken during filling operations. In particular,
at no time should one tanker be loaded until filling opera-
tions have been completed on the other.
(5) Spillage of cryogenic fluids on structural steel will cause
recrystallization and brittleness. If steel piles are to
be used, it will be necessary to provide them with a con-
crete, jacket to cover the splash zone.
(6)  Loading platforms, as well as breasting and mooring dolphins,
must be capped with concrete because of the sparking poten-
tial of mooring lines.






APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND CONSTRUCTION
MINISTER
SECRETARY
ES GENERAL
DIRECTORATE               DIRECTORATE                     DIRECTORATE                                           DIRECTORATE
INSPECTION                   FOR                       FOR                              FOR.                                                 FOR
GENERAL                   GENERAL                 CONSTRUCTION                     PLANNING AND               DIRECTORATE                 GENERAL
ADMINISTRATION             AND HOUSING                   URBAN DEVELOPMENT                 FOR                TECHNICAL MATTERS
INFRASTRUCTURE
DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR                 DIRECTORATE FOR.             DESIGN OFFICE            DIRECTORATE FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE            INFRASTRUCTURE            INFRASTRUCTURE                   INFRASTRUCTRE              DNFASTRUCTURE             INFRASTRUCTURE
TLEMCEN                    SAIDA                     MEDEA                            SETIF                                                ANNABA
DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR                  DIRECTORATE FOR                                        R          OCENTRAL EQUIPMENT  IRASTRATURE
INFRASTRUCTURE            INFRASTRUCTURE            INFRASTRUCTURE                   INFRASTRUCTURE           C        EDIVISION T        INFRASTRUCTURE
ORAN                     TIARET                    ALGIERS                           BATNA                    DIVISIONSAOURA
DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR            IRECTORATE FOR                  DIRECTORATE FOR          OFFICE FOR MARITIME         DIRECTORATE FOR
L'INFRASTRUCTURE          INFRASTRUCTURE             INFRASTRUCTURE                  INFRASTRUCTURE              SIGNALIZATION             INFRASTRUCTURE
MOSTAGANEM                  ASNAM                    TIZI OUZOU                      CONSTANTINE                                             OASIS
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES ATTACHED TO THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
NATIONAL LABORATORY          DESIGN OFFICE FOR     I  NATIONAL COMPANY FOR          I  NATIONAL COMPANY FOR         CONSTRUCTION COMPANY         CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
FOR PUBLIC WORKS           ARCHITECTURE ANO              PUBLIC WORKS                    MARITIME WORKS           FOR THE ALGIERS REGION       FOR THE ORAN REGION
<LNTPE)          ~~~~TOWN PLANNING              <SONATIBAI              L        SOATRM)                      SORECAL)                    (SORECOR)
|     TECHNICAL SUPER-           ALGERIAN DEVELOP-     [    NATIONAL COMPANY            f   CQMPANY FOR MAINTE-       CONSTRUCTION COMPANY FOR i    CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
VISION CENTER                MENT FUND                FOR ROAD WORKS                 NANCE 0F ROADS AND         THE CONSTANTINE REGION      FOR THE SOUTHERN REGION
|          (CTCI                      (CADAT)                   ( <SONATRO)             L      AIRPORTS <SERA)                (SORECCO)                   ( ISORECSUD)
NOTE: ACRONYMS FOR ORGANIZATION NAMES RELATE TO FRENCH TITLES OF ORGANIZATIONS ASUSED IN ALGERIA.                                                           WodId Bank-7149(2R)
SOURCE DIRECTORATE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
May 1974



ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
Work Program
ITEM                  1973                  1974                 1975                  1976                 1977
ITEM  ~ ~~~iF MAMJ1A S0ND  Fl A M J1|A|  SIO|N|DDIJIFMMI |J |ASI1° N    F NDAJS FI A MIJ |J |A |S |ON| C J|F|M1AM|J| J |A| S |O|N|D
PREPARATION 0F TENDERS (CONTRACTORS)
DEVELOP NEW OUARRY BY IDI
TENDER EVALUATIONea
MOBILIZATION 0F EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION 0F WESTERN BR EA KWATER
CONSTRUCTION 0F SERVICE PORT
CONSTRUCTION OF MAIN BREAKWATER
CONSTRUCTION OF EASTERN BREAKWATER
CONSTRUCTION OF BERTHS
DR EDG ING
CLEANUP AND DEMOBILIZATION
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION                                                                       m
Source:  Consultants' Estimates as Revised by Mission                                                                                 Worid Bank-8355
May 1974



ANNEX 13
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal                        Cumulative Disbursemnents
at end of Quarter
Yearand Quarter                            US$' Thousand
ig_ >1975
September 30, 1974                         1,700
December 31, 1974                          4,300
March 31, 1975                             7,900
June 30, 1975                             12,600
1975-1276
September 30, 1975                        17,800
December 31, 1975                         23,700
March 31, 1976                            30,900
June 30, 1976                             37,700
1976-1977
September 30, 1976                        h3,600
Decemnber 31, 1976                        50,000
March 31, 1977                            55,600
June 30, 1977                             62,200
1977-1978
September 30, 1977                        66,400
December 31, 1977                         68,500
March 31, 1978                            70,000
Source: Mission Estimate
May 1974



APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Principae  TriEf   o! ONP
General                     Skikda                   Assumed for
Bethioua
Ship Dues
Taxe de Peage (Harbor Dues)                         Various
per ton of cargo                            AD 0.18 - AD 1.50               AD 1.00                      AD 1.00
Droit de Quai (Berthage)
per net registered ton of ship
(a)  International Cabotage (e.g. Europe)        AD 0.21                    AD 0.21                      AD 0.21
(b)  Other                                       AD 0.42                    AD 0.42                      AD 0.42
Pilotage
per net registered ton of ship              AD 0.08 - AD 0.10               AD 0.16                      AD 0.16
Amarrage (Berthing)
per net registered ton of ship                   AD 0.12                    AD 0.12                      AD 0.12
Cargo Dues
Droit de Quai (Wharfage)                           Category                   Payable by                 Payable by
per ton                                        1          2               SONATRACH under             SONATRACH under
(a)  International Cabotage                                               concession                  concession
loaded                           AD 0.10   AD 0.20              agreement                  agreement
unloaded                         AD 0.29   AD 0.58
(b)  Otherz
l1,aded                          AD 0.20   AD 0.40
unloaded                        AD G.58   AD 1.15 
Source:  clp
May 1974



ANNEX 15
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Government's Financial and Economic Objectives for Public
Enterpritses and Agencies, including those Responsible for Transport
1.        Thàe Government takes a practical approach when determining financial
ai-nd ec.onomic objectives of public enterprises and government agencies, includ-
inig those responsible for transport. Its policy is to mobilize capital re-
sources so that nationwide planning and financing is facilitated for new pro-
ductive assets and for replacement and improvement of existing productive
assets. Funds are to be generated by the enterprises or agencies through an
adequate return on capital invested and capital recovered through depreciation.
To ensure that depreciation charged is adequate for purposes of pricing and
capital recovery, productive assets have to be assigned rational economic
lives and to be valued on a real basis.
2.        In practice, fixed assets are in two categories.  The first is assets
for which historical costs are known, including those transferred from former
owners. These are valued by applying Government financial correction indices
to historical costs. The second is assets for which historical costs are not
known, including infrastructure, which historically have been treated as State
assets. These are to be valued on a replacement cost basis according to pres-
cr;Ibed formula. Valuations have to be as at December 31, 1971.
3.        The Government mobilizes resources by fiscal appropriations, such
as income tax (at the rate of 50% of profits), by special contributions to
the State budget from revenue, and by the use of capital (depreciation and
reserve) funds. The principles have been established, but detailed regula-
tions have yet to be prepared; meanwhile, the principles are being applied on
an ad hoc basis. The system is flexible and allows for special treatment in
appropriate circumstances.
4.        In the case of enterprises having a monopoly position, the special
contribution takes the form of a percentage on turnover; in other cases, it
is based on the costs of each production unit, taking into account ftxed
assets employed, turnover, and other elements relating to the specific type
of activity. The rates have not yet been established. The contribution is
not an operating cost and does not reduce any income tax liability. Payment
is made in the year following the year of assessment. As regards capital
funds, enterprises and agencies are required to deposit them in a special
account at the Treasury, when they are known as "Equipment Bonds". Normally
these deposits may not be withdrawn for 5 or 10 years (depending on the option
chosen), and carry interest at 5% and 6%, respectively.



ANNEX 1!
Page 2
5.        Funds for new investments are financed from public resources, such
as the Treasury, banks, or the Algerian Development Bank. Regulations for
financing other capital expenditures, such as replacing, renewing, or improv-
inRg assets, have not yet been issued, but will probably include exemption
(partial or whole) from deposits of reserves, early withdrawal of deposits,
and bank financing.
Income Tax
6.        Income tax in Algeria is at the rate of 50% of profits.  Most cat-
egories of ONP's income are described as "taxes" and, because of the principle
that a tax cannot be taxed, ONP has assumed that most of its net income is not
liable to income tax. This assumptibn is questionable, since ONP has been
created as an industrial and commercial enterprise and its tariffs are payments
for facilities provided and services rendered.



ANNEX 16
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Assump tions and Bases used In Financial Evaluation
(i) Interest during coni3truction - Government will pay this interest
to May 15, 1978, i.e. six months prior to the date of the first
capital repayment of the Bank loan;
(ii)  Loan terms - Bank loan - commitment charge 3/4%, interest 7-1/4%,
term 25 years including four years of grace; others as given in
para. 4.08;
(iii) Operating costs - developed from consultant's estimates;
(iv)  Depreciation - investment recovered over 25 years;
(v)  Tariffs - direct charges as currently charged at Skikda LNG port,
(see Annex 14). Concession payments by SONATRACH for wharfage
etc. estimated at 33-1/3% of direct charges;
(vi)  Working capital - DA 1.33 million provided by Government;
(vii)  Start up - transfers of capital work in progress to fixed assets
in use phased according to berth construction phasing and start
of exports against various LNG sales contracts;
(viii) Sensitivity Analyses - LNG plants Nos. 3 and 4 and start of product
exports delayed by one year. Project completion delayed six
months; and
(ix)  No provision has been made for any appropriations of profit or
application of depreciation funds other than for annuity pay-
ments. In particular, no provision made for:
(a)  income tax;
(b)  special contribution to State budget; and
(c)  deposit of depreciation reserves in special Treasury
Account or in Equipment Bonds (and therefore no in-
terest income on such deposits).






ANNEX 17
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGE RIA
Financial Evaluation, Methodology
1.        This project differs from a normal port project as it concerns a
completely new port, designed basically to export a specialized and relatively
new bulk product and associated products. Although it has a high capital cost
and very long life in engineering terms (para. 2, below), its economic life
for the purposes for which it is to be built and for this appraisal, depend
on proven recoverable resources of natural gas in Algeria, the growing world
demand for this product, and the present facts concerning sales contracts.
A normal economic evaluation of the project in isolation from the whole LNG
program is not possible. For these reasons, the financial evaluation of the
project is in two parts: first, a discounted cash flow analysis for the 25
vears covered by the first sales contract (on the assumption that proven re-
coverable reserves of natural gas would be exhausted by then or soon after),
and second, conventional accounting forecasts from 1976, when exports com-
mence, to 1980, the year after that for which full production of the lique-
faction plants and maximum exports are planned, and 1981. Sensitivity analyses
were carried out for both DCF and accounting evaluations.
2.        For accounting purposes, it is considered reasonable to depreciate
the project over 25 years (as for the DCF analysis) because of the:
(a) probable exhaustion of natural gas reserves in the relatively
near future;
(b) doubtful economic use of the project for other traffic after
depletion of the gas reserves;
(c) need of the Government to recover the capital invested within
a reasonable time for reinvestment in other development projects;
and
(d)  inability to repay debt from depreciation on the basis of normal
lives (for example: dredging, 20% of total cost, infinite life;
breakwaters, 54%, about 100 years; berths, 16%, about 40 years).



ANNEX 18
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Revenue and Cash Flow Forecasts
(DA Million)
1976     1977     1978     1979     1980     1981
Operating Revenues
Direct port charges       37.2    67.2    87.0   102.2   102.5    102.5
Cargo and concession
fees                      11.2    20.2    26.1       30.7    30.7    30.7
48.4    87.4   113.1   132.9   133.2   133.2
Operating Expenses
Labor                      4.3      4.3      4.3      4.3      4.3      4.3
Other                      1.5      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
5.8      7.3      7.3      7.3      7.3      7.3
Net hevenues,
Before Depreciation       42.6    80.1    105.8    125.6    125.9    125.9
Investment Annuity
Paynent                                    113.0   113.0   113.0   113.0
Working Capital                1.4
Cash Surplus:
Annual                    44.0    80.1    (-7.2)    12.6      12.9     12.9
Cumulative                44.0   124.1   116.9   129.5   142.4   155.3
Source: Bank Staff
May 1. 1974



ANNEX 19
APPRAISAL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
TOTAL COST OF BREAKWATERS AND DREDGING
FOR DIFFERENT LOCATION OF MAIN BREAKWATER
1,400
1,200                                                                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1,000
BREAKWATERS AND RE      DRGING
500                        1,000            1,300      1,500                        2,000
DISTANCE 0F MAIN BREAKWATER FROM SHORE M
Source:  Consul tants 'Es timnates                                             World Bank-8396
as Revised by Mission
May 1974






ANNEX 20
Page t
APPRAI'AL OF
BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Analysis of Number of Berths
1.        Because the cost of building and operating LNG carriers is very high,
every hour saved in loading daily output of liquefaction plants is worth many
hundreds of dollars. A larger number of berths than the minimum required will
reduce the average waiting time for ships to berth. The capital cost of addi-
tional berths, however, also is high. Therefore, a detailed analysis was made
to determine whether total ship time savings could be realized that would be
of greater value than the additional capital cost necessary to achieve them.
2.        The 35.64 million m3 annual output of two LNG plants (daily through-
put of 108,000 m3 for 330 working days) will be transported to both the United
States and European markets. LNG carriers will be loaded to 98% of capacity
(allowing for loading to 99% and loss of 1% during filling operations). For
the United States market, 125,000 m3 capacity carriers will be used and 291
loads per year will be required. In 330 working days, average time between
arrivals will be 27.2 hours. With 22.5 hours at berth, a minimum of two
berths will be required. For the European market, 75,000 m3 average capacity
carriers will be used and 485 loads per year will be required. Average time
between arrivals will be 16.3 hours. With 20 hours at berth, a minimum of
three berths with two loading facilities will be required. However, actual
intervals between arrivals will vary conside.rably from the average due to
weather conditions and route structures. Consequently, the number of ships
in port at some periods will be above or below average. For periods with
above average ships in port, additional facilities vill reduce ship time
lost due to waiting as well as stress on shore storage facilities.
3.        The value per hour of waiting time saved has been computed separately
for each market because of the difference in construction and operating costs
of LNG carriers. A conservative project lifetime of 25 years has been assumed
in the computations.
4.        The capital, financing, and operating costs for carriers with ca-
pacities of 125,000 m3 and 75,000 m3 over a 20-year life were estimated by
the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) (UK), assuming 340 days of operations
per year. For the 125,000 m3 carrier, EIU estimates hourly cost at DA 7,500
on the basis of capital cost of DA 269.2 million.  However, carriers now on
order for use to the United States (El Paso Natural Gas Co.) will cost about
DA 360 million. At this capital co8t plus interest, hourly cost will be
DA 8,172. For the 75,000 m3 carrier, EIU estimates hourly cost at DA 5,400.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
5.        In defining the general port layout, production rates have been
considered only in the final phase since the intermediate phases are too
short to affect final determination of the number of berthe.
6.        A comparison of construction, financing during construction, and
present value of 25-year maintenance costs for several options with the value
of time saved for each option were analyzed. The project, which has been
developed as the final port layout, comprises the optimum number of berths
based on the results of the above study (three berths for the United States
market and three for the European market).
7.        The value of time saved to ship operators enables ultimate purcha-
sers to pay Algeria that much more for LNG f.o.b. port. Thus Algeria can
expect to recoup in LNG sales prices any additional port costs involved in
the project.
8.        A study was also made to assess the optimum number of berths
needed for crude oil and condensate exports. The study was based on traffic
forecasts (para 6.04 and Annex 2, para 6) and size of tankers (Annex 15, paras
(f) and (h)). As a result, construction of three berths for both commodities
was recommended.



10<`   b~~
`1t:: A;w;at                       //       gl kaV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
CE   A  ,1  :  C  . 2: 2 W \ F 2 X~~~~~~~W
*F0iS                                    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5






N`v--                                                   «1 <10N  >                             o         -                                                               /                          \
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
~,jk,14fj. gi! P.- -Y.-U                                                                          p.-
0/----`s<ue/  
q  qnn dao  I0 lUawsapua Kfduq
jc,s "p d'o s~,qz    -e oo< eLwn,q iL
.01          x'Ga b Ni NOIIVWeO'NI  ')3rObId
*  1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~S31VGJNflOU IV'NOI'V'NM91NI
/                     S3NI1 VV3SV dn- -Iln
' N                                                          SsW                                                                         o,      aNI Hldfl    O;
\~~~ j>\
k                   N.         z                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SaVObI 1V1N3WfIdVdg(3
S A}D.I/gJD gJ! pUD-SDOg p/i R                                                                      S      5VO dI   1 NOIIVN
aYIl X                                                                                                                  JDd))DJ JDDSQVOpD /fyI V0   [j 
SNO11VDO1 SINYld SVD lVanlIN NOllW3Ni1   [/
I  8  3 9 N.         1     V   W
I   /                         X                   ! g~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                    slvNn        ld l NOIIVN831N-                                                                                     s 
-  r  ~~~           r-                O                                  £)~~~~0QrId LIMOd VflOIH13'8
*_/\0»S33 IHdG-                        j /
O
T \ ! z sav<osklP               --NW1V - -    O   1 ^3t
A l I              -.              .M                         \t S a                                            0   V   O 1  N  _'}q                                           S         
.9V              I    8     3    9   1   V d                             S         OVu='






'3t,  .    --                         --                                                    - 35-       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEGERIA
---  Me7d/terran-on          Sea                                         ~~~~~~~~~~BETHIOUA PORT PROJECT
soGENERAL LAYOUT
pX ~~~~~Zf                                                                                                                                            S,_1      LNPG LIOUEFIEDNPETUkAEUGAS
=-  -                                `                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LPG  LIOUEFIEDNATUROAEMGAS
_  _  -  --<__,/' zs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                       DEPTH IN METERS
CSVDf Ri/t ffBrW  6fNSArf   CONNSArf                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT INFORMATION SHOWN IN RfED
----~ ~~~AA 5-------..  4               tg> s                                                  iwr                                                  ,                   ----8,, 
«___  .   façr <;+g, <    /  -^-    s -` >      , -   - ->    --            1,l,         _______   w        S P A I N  ~~~~~~~ Moditerr P A  on
I              l                      l                       I    ~~~~~~~~~35  ~~~~ -~~~Sf  PRO E-T S_Aj CS]                                     2  c 3S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROle
I              ~~~~~L N G  PLANT                                                                                                                                                 l  |eT/ 
No. 1                                                                             L  o2JN.3\No. PLAN                         A    L  G    E  R  I  A                   _
œ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N PLN    LN PLANTz 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   2                                               N og .... 3l  llnO."No/t."»           é      . # . 4  MO RO C
_L _ _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ __ _ _ ; t;/ do jr sm O sEZ xze\k



