         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)



                                                                                                                   Report Number : ICRR0020137


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P073370                                                 IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 India                                                   Water



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-47500                                             31-Mar-2011                                                              443,190,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  07-Sep-2004                                            30-Jun-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            394,020,000.00                                                             0.00

  Revised Commitment                                             387,402,287.00                                                             0.00

  Actual                                                         387,402,287.00                                                             0.00




 Sector(s)
 Irrigation and drainage(80%):Sub-national government administration(11%):Agricultural extension and research(7%):Animal production(2%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural policies and institutions(29%):Water resource management(29%):Rural services and infrastructure(28%):Administrative and civil
 service reform(14%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                 Victoria Alexeeva                    Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Loan Agreement (page 18), the project objective was as follows:

         • To improve productivity of water, thus contributing to sustainable growth and poverty reduction, in Selected River Basins.



    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 3) articulates the project objective similarly, although it includes the selected project areas:
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)




          • To improve productivity of water for sustainable growth and poverty reduction in selected focus river basins (Chambal, Sindh,
          Betwa, Ken and Tons) of Madhya Pradesh.



     The PAD (footnote, page 3) further defines the "productivity of water" as follows: the sum of the net multi-sectoral benefits per unit of water
     use in a riverbasin framework. This would include the net benefits of irrigated agriculture, fisheries, hydropower, drinking water, industries,
     navigation, and environmental or other uses of water.

     Two outcome indicators related to institutional strengthening were dropped, and the related indicators were monitored at the
     intermediate/output level. Several output targets were revised to reflect changes in scope or focus of the project (i.e. number of minor I&D
     schemes rehabilitated, number of reservoirs and fish ponds rehabilitated).




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     1. Water Resources Management - Institutions and Instruments (Appraisal: US$ 7.27 million; Actual: US$ 2.6 million): This component
     supported the establishment and operationalization of the institutions and instruments proposed by the project. At the state level, activities
     included: establishment of a State Water Resources Agency (SWaRA) to oversee inter-sectoral water allocation; establishment of the
     State Water Resources Data and Analysis Center (SWaRDAC) to collect data for improved management and planning; and establishment
     of the State Water Tariff Regulatory Commission (SWaTReC) to review and monitor water sector costs and revenues and set bulk water
     user fees. At the basin level, activities included: establishment of Basin Management Boards for the Sindh Basin and Tons Basin to
     support decentralized integrated water resources management.

     2. Service Delivery - Irritation and Drainage Institutions (Appraisal: US$ 38.35 million; Actual: US$ 8.95 million): This component
     supported measures to deliver reliable irrigation services at rational cost. Activities included: modernization of operations of the Water
     Resource Department (WRD) including use of information technology and change management techniques; implementation of
     management information system; and piloting options for management of irrigation schemes (including leasing to private sector operators,
     transferring management to water user associations, and specialized crop zone management).

     3. Improving Productivity of Selected Existing Irrigation and Drainage Assets in Five Basins (Appraisal: US$ 388.09 million; Actual: US$
     398.3 million): This component aimed to provide necessary investments in five river basins (Chambal, Sindh, Betwa, Ken and Tons) to
     improve operations of irrigation schemes. Specific goals were to provide reliable delivery of water measured and supplied on a volumetric
     basis, shift to outcome-oriented approach with agricultural intensification and diversification, and improve operations and maintenance
     especially through increased participatory management by water user associations. Activities included: upgrading of 616 minor schemes,
     33 medium schemes and 5 major schemes following consultations with local stakeholders; agricultural extension services; and fisheries
     development.

     4. Project Management Support (Appraisal: US$ 5.52 million; Actual: US$ 6.62 million): This component supported operations of a project
     coordination unit housed in the Water Resources Department to oversee implementation of all project activities.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost

          • The appraised project cost was US$ 443.2 million, of which US$ 418.5 million was the actual project cost.
          • Costs for Component 1 (Institutions and Instruments) were significantly lower than appraised (US$ 7.27 million vs. US$ 2.6 million)
          due to shortcomings in establishing the three new institutions. Costs for Comonent 2 (Service Delivery) were also significantly lower
          than appraised (US$ 38.35 million vs.US$ 8.95 million) due to shortcomings in piloting options for managing irrigation schemes.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)



    Financing

       • The project was largely financed by an IBRD loan of US$ 396.0 million, of which US$ 387.4 million was disbursed.


    Borrower contribution

       • The appraised Borrower contribution was US$ 47.2 million, of which US$ 31.07 million was provided. The project team reports that
       the latter amount reflects the actual need, which turned out to be lower than appraised.


    Dates

       • March 2011: From November 2009 to June 2012, project supervision reports rated implementation progress in the unsatisfactory
       range. The closing date was extended from March 2011 to December 2011 to allow time for the implementing agency to demonstrate
       sufficient implementation progress and to consider options for continued Bank support.
       • December 2011: The closing date was extended December 2011 to March 2012 to allow the government to review proposals for
       restructuring the project.
       • March 2012: The closing date was extended from March 2012 to June 2012 allow the government and the Bank to finalize the
       proposal for restructuring the project.
       • June 2012: The project objective remained the same, although the scope of project activities was slightly modified and the results
       framework was simplified by dropping several indicators, including two outcome indicators (i.e., improved intersectoral environmentally
       sustainable water resources management; and modernized and well-performing assets), the progress on which was to be tracked
       through the related intermediate level indicators. The closing date was extended from June 2012 to June 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The project objective is consistent with the prevailing country conditions. The economy of Madhya Pradesh (MP), the second largest state in
   India, is dominated by agriculture, accounting for 35% of the state's GDP and 80% of total employment. Despite adequate annual rainfall
   amounts, the long dry season and irregular rainfall even during the monsoon season, necessitate a more effective surface water system to
   support agriculture. At the time of project appraisal, less than 50% of "created potential" from irrigated water was actually being
   utilized. Consequently, agricultural yields and income levels of farmers are also lower than their potential. Given the critical importance of
   policy reforms in the water sector, an explicit sub-objective relating to policy reform may have strengthened focus on the relevant outcomes.

   The project objective is also consistent with the country and Bank strategic priorities. The government of India's National Water Policy (2002)
   promotes more comprehensive and integrated management of water resources, including a focus on irrigation to improve agricultural
   productivity. The state of MP's State Water Policy (2003) also prioritizes increasing irrigation potential utilization (including for small and
   marginal farmers) and developing participatory irrigation management approaches. The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for FY 2002-04
   includes rural development as a key priority and the Strategy for FY2013-17 identifies increased access to water supply and sanitation
   services and increased agricultural productivity as key outcomes.




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The project had an objective to "improve the productivity of water," which reflects the prevailing approach to integrated water resources
   management to ensure an optimal combination of water use across sectors. However, as outcomes were expected across several specific
   areas (household income, crop yield productivity and fisheries productivity), sub-objectives may have been helpful to clarify the results chain.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)



       The overall project design is notable for considering both institutional reforms and immediate infrastructure needs. Project outputs were likely to
       achieve intended outcomes: infrastructure interventions included rehabilitating and modernizing the irrigation system that serves small, medium
       and large scale farming schemes, and upgrading of fisheries; institutional support was planned for all levels, from local water user associations
       to the state Water Resources Department. Given the numerous sectors relying on water resources, there was also a need for improved
       coordination among agencies and a strengthened integrated water resources management framework. Complementary support to farmers and
       fishers to improve farm management was also likely to contribute to increasing productivity levels.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To improve productivity of water

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Rehabilitation of 228 medium and major irrigation schemes (original target: 654; revised target: 290), which included 5,900 km of
        irrigation canals. Interventions included canal lining, canal cleaning, and repair of hydraulic structures. Project funds were initially
        expected to be used from small, medium and major schemes; however, the government of MP obtained grant funds from the central
        government of India to fund all minor schemes instead.
        • Provision of agricultural intensification and diversification support to all 228 project schemes, including cropping patterns, soil testing,
        integrated plant nutrient and pest management, training on use of machinery, and seeds. Agricultural universities also received
        institutional development support.
        • Upgrading of 170 reservoirs and 82 village ponds to improve fish production (original targets: 117 reservoirs and 1,142 ponds; revised
        targets: 170 reservoirs and 100 ponds). The ICR reports that the project shifted focus to reservoirs as they are more directly linked to
        irrigation.
        • Creation and/or strengthening of 367 water user associations (target: 380). Training was provided in managing the allocation and
        distribution of water to users and the maintenance of irrigation systems. The project also supported revisions to the governance of
        associations, including in the election of officers. The ICR (page 19) reports that these associations "have been able to improve the link
        between the [Water Resources Department] and water users": however, no specific information is provided.
        • Establishment of the Water Resources Management (WRM) Wing within the state Water Resources Department. The WRM Wing is
        staffed with WRM specialists trained in modern methods and tools for river basin planning and management. The original project
        design was to create an entirely separate water resources management agency (the SWaRA); this agency was created but was not fully
        supported by the government and not adequately resourced. Subsequently, it lacked sufficient experience and authority to be able to
        collect critical data from other agencies. As a pragmatic alternative, the WRM Wing was created. According to the project team, this
        institutional action was still highly effective in separating water resources management functions from irritation and drainage service
        delivery functions.
        • Preparation of comprehensive river basin management plans for the Sindh and Chambal river basins, which will be used for
        preparation of other river basin plans.
        • Provision of communication networks for WRD offices, which was critical to enabling performance-based irrigation water management
        (i.e. performance benchmarks set for each scheme are monitored and low-performing schemes are investigated).



    However,
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)




   • River Basin Management Boards for each of the project river basins were formed but did not perform any functions due to the delays
   in creating river basin plans. The project supported existing institutions at the district level to implement the river basin plans instead.
   • The establishment of a State Water Tariff Regulatory Commission was not completed, as this required an Act of Parliament. The ICR
   (page 6) reports that there was little political will to establish the Commission, as the government's position was that the setting of user
   fees is the service providers' responsibility. According to the project team, there were no negative impacts on fiscal sustainability of the
   irrigation and drainage operations, as evidenced by the increased budget for annual maintenance.
   • Public-private partnership schemes were not piloted due to the improved performance of the WRD in managing irrigation schemes.
   • The Voluntary Retirement Scheme for WRD staff was dropped due to other existing staff reduction mechanisms.



Outcomes
Coverage

   • 635,414 water users benefitted from improved irrigation and drainage services (of which, 243,796 were females). This fell short of the
   target of 750,000 users. The ICR reports that this shortfall was due to the reduction in the number of minor schemes supported by the
   project. The ICR (page 18) also notes that "a large number of project beneficiaries" were farmers with less than two hectares of land; no
   specific data are provided.
   • 597,000 hectares of land were under irrigation at project closing, compared to 242,000 at appraisal. This represents 92% of the total
   cultivable land; at appraisal, only 27% of the total cultivable land was under irrigation. The ICR (page 47) also reports annual rainfall
   amounts (which declined during the last two years of the project period) to verify the impact of the project on increased irrigated land.
   • 100% of targeted families reported increases in incomes (411,000 farm households).



Productivity

   • The average farming income of project beneficiaries increased from 5,000 rupees/hectare in 2005 to 22,674 rupees/hectare in 2015
   (all values are in 2004 constant prices). This was calculated by averaging the incomes of farms, weighted according to the category of
   farm size (marginal, small, medium and large).This surpassed the target of 17,000 rupees/hectare. In the Chambal River Basin, the
   increase in income was proportionally greater for tail-end water users.
   • Crop production per unit of water increased for wheat from 0.40 kg/m3 in 2005 to 0.78 kg/m3 in 2015. This surpassed the target of
   0.48 kg/m3. Production for green gram increased from 0.29 kg/m3 to 0.58 kg/m3 and for mustard from 0.24 kg/m3 to 0.55 kg/m3.
   • Average fish productivity in reservoirs increased from 10-20 kg/ha (per water spread area) in 2005 to 114 kg/ha in 2015. This
   surpassed the target of 60 kg/ha. Average productivity in village ponds increased from 500-1,000 kg/ha (per water spread area) in
   2005 to 2,479 kg/ha in 2015. This was at the lower range of the target of 2,500-3,000 kg/ha.



Also,

   • 91% of survey respondents were satisfied (64%) or highly satisfied (27%) with the irrigation services provided.



Achievement of the objective to improve water productivity is rated Substantial due to significant increases in coverage of irrigated land
and evidence of increased incomes, agricultural productivity, and fisheries productivity. These likely contributed to the overarching
objectives of sustainable growth and poverty reduction.


Rating
Substantial



5. Efficiency
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)




 The PAD provided a cost-benefit analysis of the project. Benefits were calculated using the following: 1) increases in crop yields, fodder crop
 production, cropping intensity, and fisheries production; 2) increased incomes and creation of new jobs; and 3), incremental water charges
 and revenues. Costs were calculated as total project costs plus incremental recurrent costs after the project closing. The economic rate of
 return at appraisal was estimated at 21.6% and estimated NPV is 11.1 billion rupees. The financial rate of return at appraisal is estimated at
 24.6% and estimated financial NPV of 17.2 billion rupees.

 The ICR reassessed the benefits and made the following adjustments based on actual implementation and results from the impact studies:
 slight crop yield increases were observed in the period between project approval and the start of interventions (therefore the "without project"
 scenario benefits were slightly increased); the number and types of schemes supported were adjusted; and crop diversification benefits were
 dropped due to lack of results. The economic rate of return at closing was estimated at 28.9% and estimated NPV of 16.7 billion rupees. The
 financial rate of return is estimated at 28.3% and estimated financial NPV of 17.6 billion rupees. The ICR also assessed the economic rate of
 return in a scenario of "no project implementation delays," which was estimated at 36.1% and estimated NPV of 35.1 billion rupees.

 Project delays resulted from procurement delays, weak capacity, complexity of project design, and issues in project management in the early
 years of project implementation that contributed to lengthening of the project period by over four years. Due to administrative and operational
 inefficiencies, Efficiency is rated Modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                            100.00
 Appraisal                                                               21.60
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

                                                                                                            100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                            28.90
                                                                                                            Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of the project objective is rated High and relevance of the project design is also rated Substantial. Achievement of the objective to
improve productivity of water is rated Substantial due to significant increases in coverage of irrigated land and evidence of increased incomes,
agricultural productivity, and fisheries productivity. Despite a satisfactory economic rate of return, Efficiency is rated Modest as a result of
administrative and operational inefficiencies that led to a four-year project delay.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The ICR (page 15) reports that "timely maintenance has been recognized as a key contributory factor to improving system performance" and
thus annual maintenance expenditures have steadily increased over the project period. This will ensure continued operations of irrigation
schemes. Water user associations have received training to assist in managing schemes. Institutional capacity gains are also likely to be
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)



sustained due to the effective functioning of the WRD WIng, as well as the adoption of institutional processes such as the river basin
management plans and the performance-based management approach.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     This was the first Bank operation in the irrigation sub-sector in Madhya Pradesh and although project preparation was extremely thorough,
     Borrower capacity and commitment to implement such an ambitious project was overestimated. The project design was complex, involving
     numerous line departments and external consultancies to coordinate and execute activities. As noted in the Project Paper (June 2012 project
     restructuring paper), other design issues included: cumbersome scheme modernization plan preparation and approval processes; lengthy
     processes for establishing new government agencies (which required Cabinet approval and on-going budget allocation); and significant
     changes needed in attitudes and operational procedures to switch to volumetric allocation of water. The risk assessment included the key risk
     of sustaining buy-in and financial support from the government, although other risks such as implementation capacity weaknesses and
     complexities of institutional reform were not clearly identified. Environmental and safeguard issues were thoroughly considered, given the
     high potential impact on the environment. The M&E framework was comprehensive, and it included baseline and target data (though the ICR
     notes some shortcomings in quantifying targets (page 26), and clear data collection arrangements (utilizing both modern tools and traditional
     survey methods).



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Implementation of infrastructure works was initially slow due to inadequate capacity. As noted in the ICR (page 26), Bank supervision report
     ratings during this time did not accurately reflect the implementation problems and low disbursement levels. However, the various institutional
     challenges began to be resolved through multiple project restructurings. Revisions to the project design and implementation arrangements
     included: reducing the scope of activities; utilizing existing institutions rather than creating new ones; simplifying the M&E framework and
     procedures for approving the irrigation scheme modernization plans; and centralizing procurement in the project implementation unit. These
     measures significantly improved the pace of implementation and disbursements, although they were not fully in place until June 2012 (six years
     after project approval). There were issues in the fiduciary and safeguards performance, which were subsequently resolved (see Section 11).



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     The state government of Madhya Pradesh demonstrated strong commitment to addressing water resources management through a
     modern, integrated approach. However, capacity to follow through with the more complex institutional reforms was inadequate. For
     example, covenants to establish the new state water resources agency (SWaRA) and the tariff reform commission were passed but these
     agencies were not effectively operational due to lack of adequate staff and lack of clear mandate/authority to carry out their
     responsibilities. The government provided the necessary counterpart funding, for which the actual need was lower than appraised.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The project coordination unit was led by senior level government personnel, with low turnover in the the Project Director position. However,
   there were still initial implementation delays due to lack of experience with Bank procedures, as well as in technical areas including water
   resources planning and management, remote sensing, organizational change management. The project also relied on a numerous
   external consultancies, the procurement of which was slow and cumbersome. Monitoring and evaluation activities were effectively carried
   out. There were some shortcomings in safeguards and fiduciary performance (see Section 11), as one scheme to line the Swarn Rekha
   River was subject to a Phase I Inspection Panel investigation following a complaint that there was increased pollution in the river, and one
   case of misprocurement was identified, resulting in a cancellation of US$ 6.62 million of loan funds in March 2009.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E framework was comprehensive, included baseline and target figures for key outcome and intermediate outcome indicators. Although
   the stated project objective ("to improve productivity of water") was very broad, specific outcomes were identified for each relevant
   sector. However, there were some shortcomings that needed to be rectified in subsequent project restructurings. As noted in the ICR (page 12),
   a key indicator to measure increased agricultural production was not clearly identified. A number of the indicators were later refined ("improved
   incomes of targeted river basin stakeholders" was revised to "average farm income of project beneficiaries" and "targeted families with
   increased incomes"); two key outcome indicators were dropped ("improved inter-sectoral, environmentally sustainable water resources
   management" and "modernized and well-performing assets") for lack of measurability, and the related indicators were monitored at the
   intermediate/output level.
   M&E arrangements included hiring of an external firm to carry out M&E responsibilities; however, the project coordination unit instead hired
   additional specialists for these tasks. Evaluative activities included assessments of the upgraded irrigation schemes to measure impact on
   incomes and agricultural productivity.




b. M&E Implementation
   A management information system was installed to monitor irrigation scheme improvement plans and to support modern irrigation
   management practices. The system allowed the WRD to collect, process and report daily on reservoir water levels, canal discharges, and
   cropped areas for all irrigation schemes. Targets were set for the irrigated areas, and monitoring of major and medium schemes took place
   regularly. Eight impact studies were conducted, covering 19 schemes (75% of the project coverage).




c. M&E Utilization
   Performance of each irrigation scheme and of individual WRD staff were assessed at the end of each dry season. Satisfactory performance
   was rewarded and less well-performing schemes were further assessed to determine actions for improvements.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as an Environmental Category "A" project due to the "spatial scale of investment, the new nature of some of the
   activities, the possible cumulative impacts of multiple components in a scheme area, and the number of safeguard policies triggered" (PAD,
   page 16). The safeguard policies triggered included the following: Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01); Pest Management (OP 4.09);
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11); Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12); Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being
   revised as OP 4.10); Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37); and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50). An environmental and
   social assessment was conducted, along with a social and environmental management framework, and project activities included training
   for implementing agency staff on implementing safeguard actions.

   The ICR (page 13) reports that one incident resulted in a Phase I Inspection Panel Investigation in 2011. One scheme to line the Swarn
   Rekha River was subject to the investigation following a complaint that there was increased pollution in the river. After conducting
   the Phase I investigation, the Inspection Panel opted not to conduct a full investigation; rather, the government of Madhya Pradesh was
   required to prepare and implement an action plan to reduce sewage inflow. According to the ICR (page 13), no other issues were raised
   under safeguard policies on Cultural Property, Involuntary Resettlement, Indigenous Peoples, or Projects on International Waterways. Pest
   and plant nutrient management demonstrations were conducted with farmers to incentivize reduced use of chemicals. Work programs for
   dam safety are reported to have been implemented satisfactorily.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: Procurement performance was overall satisfactory. Procurement was initially slow due to lack of experience of the implementing
   agency, and therefore, the project was restructured to centralize procurement in the project coordination unit. According to the ICR (Page 14),
   the period for tendering was subsequently reduced from four months to an average of two months. One instance of misprocurement
   was identified, resulting in a cancellation of US$ 6.62 million of loan funds in March 2009. No specific details are provided in the ICR.
   The misprocured work was later retendered and financed from state funds. Post-procurement reviews did not discover any other procurement
   problems.

   Financial management: The ICR (page 14) reports that project accounts were audited on an annual basis by the State Accountant General and
   that there were no major qualifications in the audit reports. There were some minor issues regarding advance payments to water user
   associations that were later declared as ineligible, pending submission of utilization certificates. The project intended to develop online financial
   reporting for the district units and the project coordination unit; however, due to delays in developing the software, "much of its relevance was
   lost with alternative systems developed by the state for government departments and the software was not rolled out to all divisions (ICR, page
   14).




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                  ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                  Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory            ---
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: Madhya Pradesh Water Sector Restruct (P073370)



Risk to Development Outcome                 Modest                             Modest                              ---
Bank Performance                            Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                                 Substantial                         ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lessons drawn from the ICR, adapted by IEG:

     • Limit the range and complexity of the project, especially on institutional aspects. The institutional reforms initially proposed by this project
     were overly ambitious, particularly given the need to absorb new concepts and the reliance on government approvals that were beyond the
     direct scope of the project. Management concepts such as separation of water resources management and irrigation service delivery, as well
     as volumetric measurement, were beyond the experience of the implementing agency staff. Also, staffing and financing of the newly
     created state water agency (SWaRA) were inadequate due to the broader government decisions.
     • Take account of short construction periods for rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation and drainage systems. The constraints of the
     monsoon season and the need to keep systems functioning in the dry season were not sufficiently taken into account for this project. The
     total available construction period was only 30 months, or less than 25% of the project period.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is notable for strong quality of the data and the analysis of outcomes. The results chain is clearly analyzed, identifying outputs and
project support that directly contributed to each outcome. The quality of the evidence and data are robust, including changes in annual rainfall
to validate actual impact of the project on water levels. The economic analysis was notable for including a scenario assuming no project delays.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
