Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20421
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(40570)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 310 MILLION
TO THE
UKRAINE
FOR AN ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 28, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2000)
Currency Unit = Ukrainian Hyrvnia (UAH)
1 UAH = US$ 0.184
US$ I = 5.437 UAH
FISCAL YEAR
July 1, 1999-  June 30, 2000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EDAL          Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EU           European Union
IMF           International Monetary Fund
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOU           Govermnent of Ukraine
MOE           Ministry of Economy
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSD           Private Sector Development
SER           Special Export Regime
SRO           Self Regulatory Organization
SPF           State Property Fund of Ukraine
SSMC          State Securities and Stock Market Commission
TA            Technical Assistance
UAH           Ukrainian Hyrvnia
UCER          Ukrainian Center for Enteprise Restructuring and Private Sector Development
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Luca Barbone
Sector Manager/Director:   Ira Lieberman
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Vladimir KreaciclRagini Dalal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UKRAINE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     7
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       10
9. Partner Comments                                                                      10
10. Additional Information                                                              11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   20
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                     21
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                   31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Projct ID: P035814                                         Project Name: ENTER. DEV. ADJUST.
Team Leader: Vladimir G. Kreacic                           TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILA) of ICR            Report Date: April 24, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENTER. DEV. ADJUST.                            L/C/TFNumber: 40570
Country/Department: UKRAINE                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization; FK - Capital Markets
Development; MT - Trade Policy Reform
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/29/95                                 Effective: 07/18/96           07/18/96
Appraisal:  05/02/96                                  MTR: 12/01/97              02/10/98
Approval:  06/27/96                                 Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: UKRAINE/STATE PROPERTY FUND OF UKRAINE
Other Partners: State Securities and Stock Market Commission, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of
Finance
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Luca Barbone                               Wafik Grais
Sector Manager:      Ira Lieberman                              Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:   Ragini Praful Dalal                       Bernard Drum
ICR Primary Author:   Ragini Praful Dalal
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL) was to support the
Government of Ukraine's (GoU) privatization, post-privatization restructuring, capital markets
development, and trade and price liberalization programs. Other objectives were to provide foreign
exchange for the purchase of critical imports and to support the development of the foreign exchange
markets. The loan had two components. The first consisted of US$ 300 million balance of payments
support in three tranches. The second was a Technical Assistance (TA) component of US$10 million.
The main policy conditionality relating to the first component included: (i) streamlining the methodology
for mass privatization of medium and large enterprises; (ii) privatization of 5000 of these enterprises; (iii)
beginning the case by case privatization of very large enterprises; (iv) completion of the small scale
privatization program; (v) creation of a Securities and Stock Market Commission (SSMC) and regulatory
framework governing the capital markets including self-regulatory organizations (SRO); and (vi)
eliminating trade barriers and price restrictions on imports and exports and eliminating domestic price
controls.
The TA component provided two types of support. The first included assistance to the State Property
Fund of Ukraine (SPF), as the main counterpart on the EDAL, to build capacity and facilitate the
implementation of the policy reforms that were the conditions of the adjustment component. The second
included support for the creation of the professional associations necessary in a market economy, the
implementation of demonstration cases of post-privatization enterprise restructuring, the implementation
of bankruptcy and liquidation pilots, the training of enterprise managers, and the creation of a
commercial database of the enterprise sector.
The EDAL was prepared in 1995 and approved by the Board in June 1996. This was a time when
Ukraine, a newly independent country, was in the early stages of the process of transforming its economy
from a centrally planned system to a market-oriented one. In late 1994, a newly elected Government
announced a radical break from past economic policies and outlined a program aimed at reducing
inflation, improving living standards, and promoting a sustainable recovery. The GoU began to lay the
foundations for macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms; the legal basis for privatization was
put in place; and initial steps were taken in areas such as land reform and restructuring of the energy
sector. In support of the Government's economic program, an IMF-supported stabilization program
which entailed tight fiscal and monetary policies was agreed. The Government's immediate economic
reform priorities included consolidating the stabilization process and restoring growth. In order for this to
occur, it was necessary to create an environment that fostered the rapid growth of Ukraine's private
enterprise sector and enhance its ability to export goods. The resumption of economic growth in Ukraine
depended on successful stabilization and acceleration of structural reforms aimed at promoting and
sustaining both a dynamic private sector and improved living standards. The GoU's four-pronged reform
agenda included the need to promote private sector activity, the need to restructure the public sector
recasting it in a supportive role, the need to ensure the social sustainability of the transition, and the need
to ensure environmental sustainability. At that time, the Bank responded to these needs by supporting a
wide range of programs aimed at reducing Govemment intervention in the economy, developing
competitive markets, and introducing elements of a social safety net through a series of adjustment
loans in the social, enterprise, agricultural, and energy sectors. EDAL was the first of such Bank
interventions in the enterprise sector, and in response to the priorities outlined by the GoU, focused on
privatization, capital markets development, and trade and price liberalization. The relative success of
the EDAL and the Government's increasingly urgent need for balance of payments support led to the
Second EDAL which was approved by the Board in September 1998, and fully disbursed in nine months.
The EDAL was part of a coordinated and focused package of donor assistance to Ukraine and was
instrumental in catalyzing privatization, capital markets development, and trade and price liberalization in
Ukraine. An important aim of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at that time was to support
the expansion of the private sector as the main producer of goods and services in industry, commerce,
and agriculture. The adjustment portion of the EDAL promoted the enabling environment and set in
place the framework for the development of the private sector in Ukraine. The post-privatization
- 2 -



restructuring supported by the TA component of the EDAL began to assist enterprises and managers in
implernenting the changes supported by the policy reforms at the micro-level. The project developed a
cadre of reformers both in the counterpart agencies working on loan implementation as well as at the
regional level in the oblasts where the TA component was being implemented. This not only had
important capacity building effects, but created the foundation for further Bank and donor work in private
sector development. Bank-IMF financing paved the way for other donors as well as gave Ukraine access
to the intemational capital markets.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Loan objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Component: The loan contained an adjustment component that provided balance of payments
support to the budget.
Cost:        US$300 million
The reform program supported by the adjustment component included the implementation of a
privatization program for 5,000 medium and large enterprises; the acceleration of privatization of small
scale enterprises; the creation of a legislative framework and institutions to regulate the new capital
markets, including a Securities and Stock Market Commission (SSMC) and a self-regulatory organization
(SRO) for market intermediaries; and trade and price liberalization.
Component: The loan also contained a TA Component which focused on facilitating the
implementation of the policy reforms supported by the adjustment component through demonstration
cases, training, support to SROs, and post-privatization support to the enterprise sector
Cost:        US$10 million
The reform program supported by the TA component included sub-components in the areas of
development of professional associations, manager training, enterprise restructuring, creation of a
database of Ukrainian companies, pilot bankruptcy transactions, and support to the State Property Fund
of Ukraine (SPF) in preparing its privatization program as well as building capacity to implement the
above)-mentioned programs.
The design of both components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The loan focused
on the Government's highest economy-wide priorities, i.e. deepening and accelerating the privatization
and post-privatization restructuring processes for enterprises throughout Ukraine, promoting the rapid
development of capital markets, and maintaining a competitive trade and price environment within which
all enterprises operated. The EDAL built on and deepened the trade and price liberalization measures
and enterprise reforms initiated in early 1995 by the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan. The EDAL supported,
through policy conditionality, the full implementation and extension of these pro-competition and
ownership reforms and moved to the critical next stages. The capital markets development
conditionality built directly on the recommendations from the Bank's Financial Sector Review of 1995,
and began the process of developing truly functional capital markets in Ukraine. EDAL design drew on
the important lessons learned from the Russian and Central and Eastern European experience, i.e. that
there was a need to increase the efficiency of mass privatization by assisting enterprises and managers
to operate within the new framework once it was in place, and concurrently develop capital markets
legislation, institutions, and infrastructure.
3.4 Revised Components:
The US$300 million adjustment component was not revised. Small revisions were made to the US$10
million TA component to refine it to the situation on the ground at the time of implementation. Outputs
from the TA component are discussed in detail in Section 4.2.
-3-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated as Satisfactory. Given the situation in Ukraine in 1995-96, the CAS
priorities described above, as well as the lessons of experience already available from neighboring
countries in the region, it was clear that project objectives were realistic, took into account the urgency of
the reforms, and took advantage of newly appointed leadership in the GoU that was committed and
reform-minded.
There was no Quality at Entry assessment done by the Quality Assurance Group on this loan.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is assessed as Satisfactory. When the EDAL was designed, the primary objective
had been to move the mass privatization program forward. This objective was clearly reached and the
ambitious privatization targets of the loan were fully met by the Government. Similarly, great strides
were taken in the development of capital markets and trade and price liberalization as described in
Section 4.2 below. The TA component was the first Bank intervention at the enterprise level and a
recent survey of the participating enterprise managers confirmed that this program was highly
successful. Detailed feedback from the beneficiary survey and subsequent stakeholders workshop that
were part of the Intensive Learning ICR exercise can be found in Annexes Eight and Nine. The TA
component has not only begun to show enterprises how to operate in a market economy, but it has
created a lobby for reform at the regional level. While much remains to be done at the regional level in
the area of post-privatization restructuring, the TA component can be considered a significant step in the
right direction.
All three tranches of the Loan disbursed in slightly more than one year. Certain conditions were waived
for the following reasons:
*  elimination of import quality certification: The main aim of this condition was to ensure the removal
of any barriers to trade that the existing import quality certification process caused. It became clear,
however, that Ukraine had been making progress in harmonizing its import quality certification
process with that of its major trading partners with a view to becoming a full member of the World
Trade Organization. It was agreed that time was needed for this harmonization to occur and for
bilateral agreements to be signed. The Bank continued to monitor and require satisfactory progress
in this area. Future assistance included intensive TA as well as assistance under the Bank's Public
Administration Reform Loan.
*  elimination of all export duties: Despite several proposals made by the Government to Parliament on
the elimination of export duties on live animals and skins, Parliament repeatedly refused to approve
this measure. Given satisfactory progress on other aspects of the program, and given the fact that
this condition remained a condition in the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (AgSecal), this
condition was waived from the EDAL program.
*  removal of indicative prices on all commodities except those covered by voluntary export restraints,
anti-dumping investigations, and intemational contingent agreements: The GoU removed indicative
prices on metals and scraps, however, indicative prices on animal skins could not be removed until
export duties on those products were eliminated. Given satisfactory progress on all other aspects of
the program, and given the fact that this condition remained a condition in the AgSecal, this
condition was waived from the EDAL program
The successful completion of the EDAL program led to a Second EDAL in 1998 which expanded the
successes on privatization and capital markets development and supported bankruptcy reform,
accounting reform, and deregulation. The objectives of the EDAL program can, therefore, be considered
to have been broadly accomplished.
With the completion of the Second EDAL in 1999, it is now possible to judge the success of Ukraine's
transition in the area of private sector development over the past five years. Significant strides were
made with both EDAL programs in transferring ownership from the public to private sector and beginning
to build the foundation for a market economy following decades of Communism in Ukraine. Creating an
-4 -



enabling environment for business and private sector development were the larger objectives of both
loans which now seem to have proved more difficult to accomplish. While the GoU fulfilled the majority
of the conditions on EDAL I and all the conditions on EDAL II, the expected transformation of the private
sector has been slower to occur. Both EDALs played a critical role in helping Ukraine begin to develop
as a market economy by creating primary ownership changes and beginning to put in place the enabling
legall and institutional environment for the next stage of development. Both programs organized and
focused Government and donor commitment in this process. Political considerations and vested
interests, however, prohibited moving the reform program beyond this point. Thus, while the objectives
of the EDAL program were achieved, its sustainability can be questioned. The Bank's Private Sector
Development (PSD) team is addressing this issue by focusing current programs on enterprise level
assistance in the regions of Ukraine in order to train Ukrainian enterprise managers and local
consultants; create a demonstration effect from successfully restructured enterprises; and build a
constituency for reform from the bottom up. In this regard, the TA component of the EDAL was critical in
laying the foundation. While the initial lack of Government commitment to this component led to
significant delays in its implementation, once the GoU was on board, the component began to progress
swiftly. This not only ensured that economic reforms were trickling down, but created demand for the
PSD Loan going forward. The Bank is also proposing a Programmatic Adjustment Loan which will aim to
address the major constraints in the enabling environment for private enterprise development.
4.2 Ouitputs by components:
Adjuistment component (Macro Policies/Private Sector Development)
Privatization: Standard enterprise preparation (for privatization) documents were prepared by the SPF
and a network of over 1000 bidding centers was established. Mass privatization was implemented in
5000 medium and large scale enterprises with at least 52 percent coming from the agro-industrial
comiplex. By mid-September 1997, the Govemment was ahead of the program with over 6200
enterprises privatized. Furthermore, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a list of ten large monopoly
enterprises for privatization, and a streamlined methodology for privatizing agro-industrial enterprises
was implemented. The outputs for this component are rated as Satisfactory. Nevertheless, there were
significant problems which emerged from the Mass Privatization program, including insider control in
many of the privatized enterprises, making it more difficult to motivate fundamental corporate
restructuring. Also, case-by-case privatization of large enterprises failed to materialize due to lack of
political support in the country, largely focused in the Parliament, for this process.
Capital Markets: The SSMC was created, its Commissioners elected, and its key departments staffed.
Resolutions were passed and Laws enacted that ensured the unobstructed transfer of enterprise share
registries to private and independent registrars, and created a sound base for organized and transparent
securities markets. Professional associations (SROs) were created and registered, and the Securities
Cornmission passed a resolution requiring compulsory membership of capital markets participants in
SROs. Licenses of professional market participants who did not comply with the resolution were later
revoked. A Depository System for Securities was also made operational and an open joint stock
conmpany was created to provide depository services. The Securities Commission began licensing
custodians for securities. The outputs for this component are rated as Satisfactory. Nevertheless, the
nascent capital market has not fully taken on its expected role due to the slowly developing supply of
publicly traded shares and lack of market liquidity.
Trade and Price Liberalization: The Special Export Regime (SER) was neutralized by the issuance of a
Cabinet of Ministers Resolution which extended the right to export commodities subject to the SER to all
enterprises. The GoU also effectively eliminated the registration of export contracts by issuing a
resolution which stated that registration was solely for statistical purposes and could not be used to
refuse permission to export. This resolution also simplified and decentralized the registration process.
Controls on domestic prices, trade mark-ups, and profit margins for goods classified as "artificial
monopolies" were eliminated and price regulation and inspection were limited to a specific list of goods
and services. Nevertheless, the outputs for this component are rated Unsatisfactory. Conditions were
waived on this component because the political situation in Ukraine did not allow the Government to
secure Parliamentary approval for them, and they still remained as part of AgSecal conditionality. The
tensions between the Government and Parliament as well as the central privatization/capital markets
-5-



development focus of this loan suggested that these were not battles that could be won under the rubric
of the EDAL. However, these conditions were also subsequently waived from the AgSecal and though
the Government continues to try to obtain Parliamentary approval to rescind the export duties and the
indicative prices, they have not yet been successful. In fact, in 1999, Parliament imposed a further
export duty and indicative price on sunflower seeds, and the Government's attempt to have these and
the live animals and skins duties rescinded in March-April 2000 were once again unsuccessful.
TA component (Private Sector DevelopmentlInstitutional Development)
The output for this component is rated as Satisfactory. While outputs were Unsatisfactory when the
component was first launched, once it began to be implemented in eamest, outputs were more than
Satisfactory. A breakdown of outputs by each sub-component of the TA component follows. Feedback
from beneficiaries of the TA component can be found in Annexes Eight and Nine.
* Low Cost Restructuring, Parts I and 11: Low Cost restructuring of nineteen enterprises took place with
strong participation and training of Ukrainian consultants, who were team leaders in many of the later
restructuring exercises. Ukrainian consultants were trained in preparation for the PSD Loan in
restructuring centers in Moldova and Georgia (that were successfully operating as a result of earlier
Bank projects) and then given intensive on-the-job training in some of the Low Cost enterprises.
Small and medium sized enterprises were selected, primarily in light industries such as food canning
and processing, hosiery, confectionery, electrical parts. Diagnostics were done on each enterprise,
restructuring plans were developed, and the implementation phase is currently underway. Many
enterprises were able to increase the volume of production, implement internal reorganizations and
marketing strategies, increase profit, and some have begun discussions with potential foreign
partners. Managers presented the diagnostic and their restructuring plans to the oblast
administrations and to other enterprises involved in the program. US$3.2 million.
- Model Restructuring: An intensive restructuring exercise was carried out for one large Ukrainian
enterprise specializing in machine building. Consultants carried out an extensive diagnostic exercise
and produced a plan of short and long term restructuring options. Training in finance, marketing, and
new technologies was carried out for management. A new sales plan was developed, the costing
structure was improved, production (energy) costs were reduced, production units were reorganized,
and a marketing department was created which developed a marketing strategy for the company.
US$900,000.
- Bankruptcy and lquidation: Two pilot restructuring exercises were conducted. In one case, an
industrial park was created and revenue was generated by leasing space to other businesses in the
community. Management was trained in accounting and a public relations campaign disseminated
information about the industrial park model. In the second case, financial restructuring of debts took
place and business lines were readjusted to reflect the highest profit areas. Negotiations and
agreements with each of the company's creditors were achieved. US$950,000.
*  Management Training: Nearly 700 managers and some government officials were trained in two-
and five-day courses in restructuring, turn-around management, and lessons leamed from cases in
nearby countries. Three modules of training ranging from beginning to advanced were offered over
a period of six mcnths. The training contributed significantly to raising demand for restructuring
assistance and some managers subsequently paid for the continuation of the training program.
US$950,000.
* Commercial Database: A database of information on Ukrainian privatized and private enterprises
was developed. A joint-venture is in the process of being created between a foreign and Ukrainian
partner that will maintain the database and disseminate information about Ukrainian companies. A
benchmarking database is in the process of being prepared which will include benchmarking
information (i.e., cost structure, financing, markets) from Western enterprises that are comparable to
the Ukrainian enterprises restructured in the Low Cost exercise. US$450,000.
* Methodological and Technical Assistance to the SPF: Consultants worked with the SPF to develop
the privatization program for 2000, maintained the SPF website, and provided support to the SPF
Information Technology Department to maintain professional information on enterprises.
US$250,000.
* Professional Associations: Ten professional associations were given grants of US$95,000 each to
carry out activities such as conferences in their issue areas, marketing and membership brochures,
-6 -



training of trainers in their issue area, establishing links with foreign associations, and lobbying the
Government. Associations supported included associations of financial analysts, management
consultants, accountants, and insurance intermediaries. Operational costs of associations were not
lunded. US$950,000.
* Strengthening SPF: Consultants prepared an analysis of the foreign investment environment in
lJkraine and potential foreign investors. Fifteen strategic Ukrainian enterprises will be prepared and
promoted abroad. Ukrainian consultants will work with foreign consultants in each of these
enterprises. A conference planned for September 2000 will convene major portfolio investors to
present the enterprises. US$800,000.
In adidition, support was provided to the Ukrainian Center for Post Privatization Support to monitor the
enterprise restructuring work, and to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to establish and
operationalize itself. Details are available in Section 4.5.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The adjustment component of the EDAL created a critical cadre of individuals that worked to develop
and implement the policy conditionality. This developed institutional capacity in the GoU and feedback
fromr the beneficiary survey suggests that the EDAL program was the basis for the GoU's privatization
program. This working group of government officials in the SPF, the SSMC, the MoE, and MoF became
the foundation for further programs in private sector development.
The PIU in the SPF coordinated the TA component. Significant capacity was built within this unit to work
with enterprises, managers, and government officials on enterprise restructuring and private sector
development as well as to manage World Bank financing. The PIU subsequently expanded into a
non-profit entity called the Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring and Private Sector
Development (UCER) and today has established four regional centers, and has a cadre of over 90
consultants who are experts in restructuring and turn-around management working in over 25 enterprises
throughout the country.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The early 1990s were tumultuous years in Ukraine. The country was newly independent and in many
ways, the Government was struggling to manage a nation that was defining its national identity. There
were many fractious voices and groups and this made it particularly difficult for the Government to focus
on economic reform. "Managing" independence and balancing national identity with the relationship with
Russia, a major trade partner for Ukraine, was critical at this time. The GoU perhaps understood the
need for economic reform and private sector development, but many competing issues made it difficult
to focus entirely on this process.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Leonid Kuchma was elected President in late 1994 and the EDAL was prepared at a time that was
viewed as a window of opportunity for reform in Ukraine. However, the Government had to contend with
a primarily Left-dominated Parliament that essentially blocked economic reforms. It was particularly
difficult to create a lobby for reform as most of the country was ideologically torn between
representatives of the old system who adjusted to the transition and began to collect rents from the new
environment, and those who supported the transparent relationships characterizing a market economy.
While the Govemment had it in its power to carry out many of the reforms proposed in the EDAL, this
-7 -



tension between pro- and anti-reform forces as well as between the Government and Parliament made it
difficult to move quickly with reforms.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
It was clear that the Government was not initially committed to the TA component. This was largely due
to the fact that the Chairman of the SPF, who had championed the EDAL effort, had been removed from
office. Nearly one year was lost in the bureaucratic difficulties faced by the PIU as they were unable to
get the relevant permits and clearances and the Special Account was frozen multiple times. The first
head of the PIU was not committed to overcoming these difficulties and it was unclear whether she took
all the necessary steps to move the component forward. While having senior level Government support
for the TA component would clearly have made it easier to implement, it seemed the PIU had the access
to getting this support if an effort had been made. After repeated communications from the Bank, the
Vice Prime Minister appointed one of his advisors to head the PIU. Subsequently, the component has
progressed impressively well with almost no hurdles.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Three tranches of US$1 00 million each were disbursed, and US$7.5 million of the US$10 million TA
component has been disbursed. The remaining funds are expected to disburse by project closing in
December 2000. Significant delays in implementing the TA component are explained in Section 5.3.
The project was expected to close on December 31, 1999, but due to delays on the TA component, it is
now expected to close on December 31, 2000. Detailed cost figures can be found in Annexes 2 and 4.
6. Sustainability
61 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The specific conditions in Ukraine make sustainability hard to predict. If considered in isolation, most of
the outcomes of the loan were delivered in a satisfactory and timely fashion. However, questions about
the larger enabling environment for private sector development as well as lack of reforms in other
sectors of the economy (i.e., administrative reform, pension reform, financial sector reforms, energy
sector reform) will influence the long term sustainability of the loan.
Nevertheless, sustainability has been rated as "Likely". The rationale for this rating is based on the fact
that the project established a basis for the future development of the private sector by creating a large
number of privatized enterprises, assisting enterprises and managers to operate in a market economy,
creating and regulating the capital markets, and beginning the process of trade and price liberalization.
The main objective of the project was to accelerate and embed the transformation in the ownership
structure and management of Ukrainian enterprises, to accelerate the development of the private sector
in Ukraine, and to create capital markets infrastructure to serve Ukraine indefinitely in the future. These
objectives were unquestionably and irreversibly achieved and by definition brought about sustainable
change.
As mentioned above, this project paved the way for the Second EDAL and the development of the
Bank's PSD Loan. The Second EDAL not only built on the privatization and capital markets
development components of the First EDAL, but it also advanced the development of bankruptcy
mechanisms, established the basis for intemational accounting standards to enterprises, and made the
entry of new businesses easier through the adoption of a simplified registration process.
The TA component paved the way for the Bank's PSD Loan which seeks to restructure enterprises and
train Ukrainian managers and consultants throughout Ukraine. As explained above, the PIU expanded
and has become the UCER which carries on projects throughout Ukraine.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As discussed above, the adjustment portion of the First EDAL was built upon through the Second EDAL,
which has now disbursed fully. The PSD Loan, currently under preparation, will build on the TA
component. The PIU (now called UCER) will implement the PSD Loan, and has expanded its activities
-8 -



and capacity as discussed above.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. The Bank's preparation of the project
involved close coordination with multiple Government counterparts and exemplary coordination with
donor agencies active in the enterprise sector in Ukraine. The EDAL program put the Bank in a
leadership role in donor coordination with Bank policy conditionality providing the leverage for many
other programs in the PSD area. For example, the adjustment component included ambitious
privatization targets to be fulfilled, and USAID played a critical role in the actual implementation of the
privatization program through their financing of auction centers. EDAL conditions were developed after
extensive consultation with the Government, examination of the lessons learned from similar programs
in the region, and as part of a package of enterprise sector assistance programs from the entire donor
community. The loan was processed on a reasonably timely schedule in order to address the GoU's
balance of payments needs as well as to advance the agenda for reform in the enterprise sector in
Ukraine. The Loan was fully disbursed slightly over a year after effectiveness. Bank missions visited
Kyiv nearly every eight weeks during the preparatory phases of the Loan.
7.2 Suipervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is assessed as satisfactory. Strong coordination with donors on
the ground as well as preparatory missions for the Second EDAL allowed for a strong supervision effort
on the Bank's part. Constant supervision of the TA component meant that adjustments were made to
reflect the changing situation and personalities on the ground. There was daily contact with the PIU and
the Bank was intimately involved in the development of the TA component over time. Bank missions
visited Kyiv nearly every four weeks during the launch and early implementation of the TA component.
Waivers on the conditions of the adjustment were given with the realization of the risks,
accornplishments, and the political realities at the time.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 P'reparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the
time of preparation between the Government and the Bank, and the leadership and vision provided by
the main counterpart in the SPF ensured that the program that was developed was appropriate to
Ukraine's needs. Representatives from all the counterpart agencies were involved in the preparation of
the loan.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons outlined
in Section 4. Nearly all the key conditions of the loan were fulfilled. Eventually, the GoU delivered by
assigning committed project counterparts who were able to deliver the program.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance is assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons outlined in
Section 5.3. While there were substantial delays and the initial performance of the PIU was
unsatisfactory, once there was Government commitment and new PIU leadership, the implementation of
the TA component improved significantly. The PIU is today entirely committed to the TA component and
the Lupcoming PSD Loan.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government during the EDAL program is assessed as satisfactory.
-9-



Having the experience of the Second EDAL already available, however, leads to questions. While the
conditions were fulfilled and reforms did take place, in some sense, Govemment completion of both
EDAL programs was linked to the urgency of the need for balance of payments support. This was
particularly true with the Second EDAL as this was a time of economic crisis. Once the leverage of the
Second EDAL's last disbursement was gone, however, signs of wavering appeared and it was necessary
to continue working with the GoU to prevent backtracking. Two remaining areas of significant concern
are: (i) continuing reluctance to implement a transparent case-by-case privatization; and (ii) on-going
state intervention in the operations of privatized firms largely aimed at extracting rents and thereby
stifling growth and the development of the sector. The proposed Programmatic Adjustment Loan would
be intended to address some of the most critical constraints to the business environment and provide
additional impetus to case-by-case privatization and bankruptcy. In the immediate future, further
attempts to backtrack cannot be excluded and additional efforts may be required to sustain the impact of
EDAL II. It is hoped that the new reform-minded Government, elected in November 1999, will prevent
any such reversals. While this does not directly affect the Borrower performance rating on the First
EDAL, it must, nevertheless, influence our judgment.
8. Lessons Learned
Adjustment with Technical Assistance
The experience of the EDAL showed that in transition economies, the results from policy reforms are far
enhanced if they are accompanied by TA. While the policy reforms supported by the adjustment
component are critical for setting the framework, the TA is instrumental in training key players in how to
operate in the new environment. Given the uniqueness of the situation in the transition economies and
the relatively short history of Bank programs in this part of the world, the TA component allowed for low
cost experimentation, particularly with sensitive issues like bankruptcy of enterprises. It also created a
demonstration effect and created a lobby for reform at the regional level and throughout the country.
The feedback received from the work being done on the ground also improved the supervision of
subsequent tranches on the adjustment component because it clarified the operational issues created by
the imposition of or lack of policy reforms.
Broad based support from the counterpart
One of the key problems with the EDAL TA component (and also some stages of the Second EDAL) was
that the Government official who had championed both loans was removed from his position as head of
the SPF. This created a situation in which there was no accountability for the program and it became
very difficult to make any progress. Frequent changes in the leadership at the SPF did not facilitate the
situation. Had a broader base of support been built, the success of the program would not have been so
closely linked to one person. Recognizing the difficulty of finding many such counterparts as well as the
hierarchical nature of the Ukrainian system, it is, nevertheless, the objective of future programs in the
PSD area to not only build support throughout the Government but also with NGOs, business
associations, and major political parties.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The GoU and the PIU provided detailed comments on the project in written form. These documents are
in the project files and are available upon request. Overall, the GoU rated the EDAL project a success
saying that "it is difficult to overestimate the effects of the EDAL program in highlighting the advantages
of a market economy in Ukraine and introducing market capital know-how". According to the GoU, the
EDAL program began in Ukraine at the time that economic reform was proceeding at a sluggish pace.
The reasons for this include the contradictory and inconsistent nature of national legislation for
entrepreneurial activities; a poorly developed stock market infrastructure; obsolete accounting standards;
and an ineffective bankruptcy system. Today, the successful outcomes of the EDAL program include a
critical mass of privatized enterprises in Ukraine that have irreversibly embedded property reform; the
involvement of Ukrainian citizens in the privatization process giving them first hand experience in a
market economy; the development of a transparent and well-functioning stock market infrastructure; and
the liberalization of foreign trade activities. As a result of the EDAL program, important achievements
- 10 -



were made in the areas of macreconomic policy reform, the introduction of appropriate legislation, and
significant institutional development within the counterpart state agencies as well as in the enterprise
sector. The EDAL program also created capacity within the GoU by creating a local body that had the
expertise to work with enterprises as well as with donor agencies involved in enterprise reform.
In assessing factors that affected project implementation, the GoU noted that while the Bank's
conditionalities helped enforce and provide support for the Government's reform program, the
contentious relationship with Parliament often made it difficult for the GoU to deliver these reforms.
Furthermore, the Government itself was not able to put in place certain legislation and reforms which
diluted the effects of the EDAL program. For example, in some cases, the GoU continued a protectionist
policy towards enterprises (i.e. due to vested interests and Soviet era relationships) which inhibited the
development of a true competitive environment. The lack of coordination between the Govemment and
the Parliament as well as among different Government agencies; the continual reshuffling of
Government officials; the delays in adoption of critical legislation (i.e., the Law on the SPF and the State
Privatization Program for 1996) all negatively effected the implementation of the EDAL program.
The GoU rated Bank performance as "fairly successful". The project addressed issues of critical
importance for the development of the private sector in Ukraine, and was prepared with good
cooperation between the GoU and the Bank. However, the GoU recommended that future projects
involve a detailed action plan agreed between the Bank and the relevant implementing state agencies on
the steps to be taken for the actual implementation of the agreed reforms. Furthermore, the GoU noted
that far greater involvement from the Bank's Resident Office in Kyiv would have been most helpful
particularly in the early stages of the project when Ukraine was a relatively new Borrower with little
experience in World Bank procedures and practices. The GoU also felt that the Bank needed to be more
understanding of the political and institutional constraints on the Ukrainian side when formulating policy
conditions or making demands that had to be met prior to the release of financing.
The! key lesson learned as stated by the GoU was the need in future to work with the Bank to develop a
joint strategy for reform in the proposed sector and building consensus with all key players before moving
ahead with specific loans or operations.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of additional available documentation on the project can be found in Annex Seven.
- 11 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
A more competitive and better functioning   All indicators listed in this table were  Same as projected in last PSR for all
market economy environment in Ukraine,    projected in the PSR, and were either part of indicators listed in this table.
with critical supporting functions in place    policy conditions to be fufilled or an integral
part of the TA component.
Well functioning, transparent capital markets
with relevant support structures in place
A critical mass of restructured enterprses
creating a demonstration effect; development
of a capacity to provide post-privatization
support to enterprises
Enhanced import and export trade and
domestic price liberalization promoting a
competitive environment
Output Indicators:
5000 enterprises privatized            All indicators listed in this table were  Same as projected in last PSR for all
projected in the PSR, and were either part of indicators listed in this table.
policy conditions to be fulfilled or an integral
part of the TA component.
Streamlined procedures for privatization of
mediumAarge enterprises implemented
Securties and Stock Market Commission
created
Depository System for securities
operationalized
Professional Associations/SROs created,
with compulsory membership from capital
markets participants
20 enterprises restructured, 2 pilot
bankruptcy restructuring exercises
700 managers trained
Database of information on privatized
enterprises created
End of project
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Adjustment Component                                  300.00           300.00           too
Technical Assistance Component                         10.00            10.00           100
Total Baseline Cost                                   310.00           310.00
Total Project Costs              310.00           310.00
Total Financing Required               310.00          310.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         1.00         0.00          1.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         9.00         0.00          9.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.00)   _ 0.00)           (9.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        0.00         0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00         0.00         10.00         0.00         10.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.00)       (0.00)       (10.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.02         0.00          0.02
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.02)       (0.00)        (0.02)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         9.78         0.00          9.78
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.78)       (0.00)        (9.78)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.20         0.00          0.20
3___________________ -   (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
- 13-



S. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                          0.00           0.00           10.00           0.00           10.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (10.00)         (0.00)         (10.00)
Miscellaneous shall read as "Operating Costs" expenditures under category 1(c)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Cornponent (in US$ million equlvalent)
Adjustment Component      300.00                         300.00                          100.0   0.0    0.0
Technical Assistance      10.00                           1 0.00                         100.0   0.0    0.0
Component
0.0    0.0    0.0
-14 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
-15 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performac Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 1995                       6   PSD Specialists, Capital
Markets Specialist,
Operations Officers
July 1995                      1   PSD Specialist
September 1995                 6   PSD Specialists, Capital
Markets Specialist,
Operations Officers
December 1995                  2   PSD Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1996                     2   PSD Specialists
May 1996:Negotiations
June 1996                      3   PSD Specialists, Operations
Officer
Supervision
October 1996                   6  PSD Specialists, Capital               S                  S
Markets Specialist,
Operations Officers
November 1996                   1  PSD Specialist                        S                  S
January 1997                   6  PSD Specialists, Capital Markets       S                  S
Specialist, Operations Officers
April 1997                     2   PSD Specialists                       S                  S
June 1997                      3  PSD Specialists                        S                  S
November 1997                  2  PSD Specialist, Operations             S                  S
Officer
January 1998                   1  PSD Specialist                         S                  S
March, June, September,        2  PSD Specialist, Operations
November 1998                      Officer
February, June, October        2  PSD Specialist, Operations             S                  S
1999                               Officer
ICR
April 2000                     3   PSD Specialists, Operations           S                  S
Officer
- 16-



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,OQO)
][dentification/Preparation              111.9                         361
Appraisal/Negotiation                     16.1                        49.7
Supervision                               80.5                       268.8
ICR                                       13.9                        43.1
Total                                   222.4                        722.6
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                             OH  OSU*M  ON  ONA
F. Sector Policies
U Physical
O Financial
O Institutional Development                  O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Environmental
Social
ai Poverty Reduction
F] Gender
Cl Other (Please specify)
E Private sector development                 O I  O SU * M  O N  O NA
L Public sector management
O Other (Please specify)
- 18-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(H'S=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
? Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS   O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
N Preparation                                       OHS *S  O U  O HU
N Government implementation performance             O HS * S  0 U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   0 U   OHU
M Overall                                           OHS *S  0 U  O HU
-19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
President's Report
Memorandum on Enterprise Sector Development Policy
Tranche Release Memos
Loan Agreement
Relevant Back-to-Office Reports
Relevant Project Supervision Reports
English and Ukrainian Language Versions of Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Responses to Beneficiary Surveys for adjustment and TA components
Detailed summary of Stakeholder Workshop
- 20 -



An nex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
As part of the Intensive Learning ICR exercise, the Bank team undertook surveys of the
Ibeneficiaries of both the adjustment and TA components of the EDAL. The objective of the
survey was to assess the success of the program as well as focus on lessons learned. One
survey was developed targeting the counterpart agencies on the adjustment component while a
second survey was prepared for the enterprises, managers, and professional associations that
were the beneficiaries of the TA component.
Overall, the counterpart agencies surveyed said the EDAL had been critical to Ukraine's
transition and noted that it has been the basis for the Government's privatization program, and
created a core group working on these issues. Scme of those surveyed felt that the policy
conditionalities, objectives, and end goals of projects needed to be clearer and more focused.
On the TA component, the majority of those surveyed found the assistance they had received
to be very helpful and felt that one of the most important outcomes had been the changing of
the mentality of participants. Most called for further assistance, particularly enterprises who
requested financing after successful completion of the restructuring and training programs.
Beneficiaries surveyed overwhelmingly noted that Governmental regulations, inspections,
taxation, as well as corruption and crime were the critical remaining problems in the business
environment. Detailed survey responses have been summarized below.
Beneficiary Survey of Adjustment Component:
A specially designed questionnaire was sent to the Ministry of Economy (ME), the Ministry of
Finance (MF), the State Property Fund (SPF) and the State Securities and Stock Market
Commission (SSMC). All the agencies responded to the questionnaire. A summary of their
responses can be found below.
1. What is your opinion of the contribution of the World Bank EDAL project for the overall
economic development of the country:
(Rating 1= None, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major)
1      2      3        4
1        Increase in overall efficiency of the economy           MF    ME
2        Reduction of unemployment                               ME,
MF
3        Improvement of trade opportunities                      ME    MF
4        Increase in exports                                     ME    MF
5        Improvement in confidence in markets                           ME,
MF
6        Improved markets in technical help for firms            ME,
M F
7        Improved World Bank input to policy making for the              MF      ME
enterprise sector
8        Positive spill-over on the economy                      ME,
MF
- 21 -



9       More efficient capital markets                                  ME      MF,
SSMC
10       Other (please list) Improvement of the legislative                      ME
framework, especially in the deregulation
methodology
2. Do you believe that the privatization/liberalization program supported by the EDAL could
have succeeded without the World Bank's assistance?
Likely
Unlikely    MF, ME, SSMC
3. Based on your experience, how would you describe?
(Rating 1-5: 1=very poor, 2=poor, 3=acceptable, 4=good, 5=very good)
1        2         3        4
1       Timeliness and effectiveness of                               MF      SSMC
intervention, support and advice                                       ME
2        Project overall design                                               SSMC
MF, ME
Relevance of World Bank advice                               MF      SSMC
ME
4        Efficiency of World Bank supervision                         ME      SSMC
MF
5        Procurement procedures                                                 ME
n   X'pJ?aisal procedures                                              ME
7        Period incurred from project preparation                    SSMC       MF
intil final approval                                         ME
I e      Quickness of delivery of assistance                         SSMC       ME
MF
4. In you, opir,ion what were the main constraints to more efficient project implementation?
Please list up to 5 important factors
a. lneffective perforr'ance of the state agencies which participated in the implementation of
the project - MF
b. Inconsistency of legislation - ME
c. Out-of-date accounting standards - ME
d. Protectionist policy of the Government towards state-owned enterprises - ME
e. Unrealistic evaluation of enterprise assets - ME
5. What would you suggest to be done to improve future operations?
Please list:
a. Conditionalities need to be formulated more clearly and in a more focused way so that
- 22 -



their interpretation is clear. This would avoid future disagreement with the World Bank on their
fulfillment. - SSMC
b.  Maximum achievement of the project's goals - ME
c.  Clearer direction and end goal of the project. - ME
e.  More active involvement of the regions of Ukraine - ME
f.  More active participation of NGOs in the project - ME
6. Please rank the importance of remaining problems in business sector environment in
Ukraine
(Rating 1= None, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major)
1       2         3         4
1     Regulations for starting new business                  MF       ME,      SSMC
SPF
2     Regulation on foreign trade, customs                   ME        MF
3     Labor regulation                                                 MF        ME
4     Lack of strong and independent business                ME,                SPF
associations                                           MF
5     Difficult access to credit                                     ME, MF
SPF
6     Large amount of credit going to inefficient SOE's      MF        ME
and privatized companies
7     High interest rates                                                      ME, MF
8     High tax burden                                                 SPF      ME, MF
SSMC
9     Tax administration, inspections                                          ME, MF
10    Price controls                                                 ME, MF
11    Efficiency of the judiciary                                    ME, MF
12    Unexpected and frequent changes in                               ME        MF,
Government's rules, laws and policies                                     SPF
13    Crime                                                          ME, MF
14    Corruption                                                       MF,       ME
SPF
15    Inflation                                              ME,
MF
SPF
16    Inflation and Price Instability                         MF       ME
17    Standards and Certification Regulation                  MF       ME,
SPF
- 23 -



Beneficiary Survey of TA component:
A specially designed questionnaire was sent to seventeen enterprises that received technical
assistance under the EDAL. Fourteen enterprises responded to the questionnaire. A summary
of their responses can be found below.
GENERAL INFORMATION
Today         3 years ago
1. Company Size:  # of full-time employees (average):    1068      1418
# of part-time employees (average):    343       364
2. Year of Start-up: From 1871 to 1994
3. Industry:             Manufacturing
Light Industry             29%
Machinery                  43%
Wood processing             21%
Medical glass vessels      7%
4. Please specify your enterprise's leading products or services (up to 3) and the percent of
total sales they represent:
1% Sales for Leading Product  I. Sales for Second Product  I% Sales for Third Product
Today            51                       17                      13
3 Years Ago      49                       17                      10
5. Location of management: Zhitomir, Khmelnitsky, Volyn, Kherson, and Chernovtsy
6. Does your firm export? (specify % of total sales)
Today             7 companies - up to 52% of total sales
3 Years Ago       9 companies - up to 41% of total sales
7. Sales to State Sector? (specify % of total sales)
Today             6 companies - up to 70% of total sales
3 Years Ago       6 companies - up to 80% of total sales
8. What is the legal organization of this company?
Today             Joint Stock Company
3 Years Ago       Joint Stock Company
9. Which of the following best describes the overall control of your firm, where control means
making major decisions conceming the enterprise's direction?
Most firms that responded said they are controlled by their Board of Directors or by managers
today. Three Years Ago, most firms were controlled by a combination of the Board of directors,
managers, and the Government
10. Does your firm have holdings or operations in other countries?   No
11. How was your firm established? Privatization of a state-owned firm
- 24 -



12. Regarding your firm's major product line, how many competitors do you face in your
markets?
Today         a) none       b) 3 or fewer  36%   c) many (more than 3) 64%
3 Years Ago    a) none 8%    b) 3 or fewer  23%   c) many (more than 3) 69%
13. Which of the following would you define as your leading competitor?
NOW                 3 Years Ago
a. Domestic SMEs                              21%                 7%
b. Domestic large private companies           21%                 21%
c. Foreign firm producing in domestic market  10%                 10%
d. State-owned enterprises                                        3%
e. Micro-enterprses/informal sector           14%                 14%
f. Legal imports                              10%                 10%
g. Smuggled goods                             21%                 25%
h. My firm has no competitors                 3%                  10%
EVALUATION OF PROJECT SERVICES
14. Please rate the contribution of the project to the improvement of the operational efficiency
of your company:
(Rating 1-4: 1=No Impact, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major Impact
1       2        3         4
1        Increase in sales                                           33%      33%      34%
2        Increase in profitability                           9%      18%      45%      28%
3        Increase in exports                                18%      18%      36%      28%
4        Increase in employment                             45%       18%     37%
5        Improvement in procurement policies and procedures          20%      50%      30%
6        Accounting practices                                        10%      45%      45%
7        Identifying and attracting potential foreign investors for    25%  25%  33%    17%
joint-ventures
8        Improve formulation and implementation of corporate          18%     45%       37%
strategy
9        Better marketing and export promotion                        8%      69%       23%
10       Diversification of activities                      30%      20%      50%
11       Entering new sectors                                9%      27%      18%      37%
12      Entering new foreign markets                         9%      45%       9%      27%
13      Other (please list)
14       Legal consultancy                                    =
- 25 -



15      Optimization of the number of employees                                         1
16      Improvement of the management information system                                1
17      Attraction of domestic investors                                                1
18      Optimization of the products assortment                                1
19      Decrease in barter                                                              1
15. The most direct effects of the project were in increase of sales, increase of exports, and
decreasing liability.
16. When considering the assistance provided by the project, did you explore other
possibilities?
Yes. Examples:
a. Market expansion
b. Creation of an industrial park
C. Improvement of financial position
d. Introduction of financial management system
e. Improving enterprise governance
f.  Optimizing employment
g. Developing new markets
h. Export financing
i. Attracting foreign investors
j.   Debt restructuring
k. Cost analysis
1.  Technology
m. Increase Sales
n. New accounting system
o. Improving Cash flow
17. Do you believe that your enterprise could have succeeded without the World Bank's
assistance?
Likely       25%
Unlikely     75%
18. How would you describe your relationship with the consultant?
(Rating 1-5: Poor-deficient-good-vefy good-excellent)
1     2      3      4      5
1       Staff knowledgeable and helpful in providing advice             31%   46%   23%
and guidance in the application of procedures
2       Consistency of advice and guidance                              14%   64%   22%
3       Accessibility and responsiveness of senior staff on             23%   62%    15%
matters of importance
4       Appropriate recommendations for action to correct               43%   36%   21%
problems
-26 -



Responsiveness with a reasonable short time    I     I      | 29%   50%   21%
19. How would you describe your relationship with the project implementation unit?
(Rating 1-5: Poor-deficient-good-very good-excellent)
1     2      3      4     5
1       Staff knowledgeable and helpful in providing advice           46%   31%   23%
and guidance in the application of procedures
:2      Consistency of advice and guidance                             23%   62%   15%
3       Accessibility and responsiveness of senior staff on            54%   38%    8%
matters of importance
4       Appropriate recommendations for action to correct       8%    38%   38%   16%
problems
5       Responsiveness with a reasonable short time                    46%   38%   16%
20. Based on your experience, how would you describe?
(Rating 1-5: 1=very poor, 2=poor, 3=acceptable, 4=good, 5=very good)
1     2      3      4     5
I       Relations with technical assistance body                             33%   67%
2       Timeliness and effectiveness of intervention, support          8%    84%    8%
and advice
3       Project overall design                                         17%   41%   42%
4       Relevance of World Bank advice                                 8%    23%   69%
5       Efficiency of World Bank supervision                                 67%   33%
6       Procurement procedures                                  14%   29%   43%   14%
7       Appraisal procedures                                           38%   50%   12%
8       Period incurred from project application until final           17%   33%   50%
approval
9       Quickness delivery of assistance                                     70%   30%
21. In your opinion what were the main constraints to more efficient project implementation?
Please list up to 5 important factors
a. lack of working capital
b. imperfect taxation system and tax burden
-27 -



c. inappropriate legislation
d. lack of market knowledge
e. short period for project implementation
f.  lack of Western technical experts
g. insufficient technical or sectoral base of consultants' knowledge
h. insufficient information support
i.  lack of foreign investors
j.  high interest rate
k. inflation and price instability
1.  old equipment
m. absence of quality raw materials
n. poor product design
o. unequal treatment for businesses
p. absence of support to local producers
q. insufficient computer technology
r.  large liabilities
s. expensive sources of financing
t.  threat that the shares could be bought up
u. conflicts among staff
v. policy environment not conducive
w. insufficient accounting procedures
x. mentality
y. poorly qualified managers
z. low purchasing power
22. Average time from presenting project application to first assistance: 3.4 months.
23. What would you suggest to be done to improve future operations ?
Please list:
a. sales increase
b. corporate governance changes
c. reduction of costs
d. new information system
e.  intemational accounting standards
f.  improving marketing activity
g. use of flat tax for small businesses
h. development of new job description and incentive system
i.  set up of wholesale shops
j.  creation of a trade mark
k. utilization of unproductive assets
1.  export increase
m. employment increase
n. search for foreign investors
o. improving the organizational structure
p. creation of joint ventures
q. computerization of financial systems
r.  reducing barter
s. creation of business-park
t.  efficient utilization of productive assets
24. What is in your opinion the contribution of the World Bank EDAL project for the overall
economic development of the country:
(Rating I= None, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major)
- 28 -



1      2       3      4
.        Increase in overall efficiency of the economy             31%    31%    38%
2        Reduction of unemployment                          17%    17%    42%    24%
3        Improvement of trade opportunities                                83%    17%
4        Increase in exports                                        8%     77%    15%
5        Improvement in confidence in markets,                     10%    50%    40%
private sector by public
6        Improved markets in technical help for firms              20%    50%    30%
7        Improved World Bank input to policy making for            25%    33%    42%
the enterprise sector
8        Improved abilities to present sound business plans         8%     64%    28%
9        Positive spill-over on the economy                        10%    50%    40%
25. Please rank the importance of remaining problems in business sector environment in
Ukraine
(Rating 1= None, 2=Minor, 3=Moderate, 4=Major)
1     2    3         4
1     Regulations for starting new business          17%    17%   33%      33%
2     Regulation on foreign trade, customs                   23%    15%    62%
3     Labor regulation                                15%    31%   23%    31%
4     Lack of strong and independent business         10%   90%
associations
5     Difficult access to credit                     15%    15%   31%    39%
6     Large amount of credit going to inefficient SOE's    17%    17%   25%    41%
and privatized companies
7     High interest rates                                                  100%
8     High tax burden                                                      100%
9     Tax administration, inspections                        7%    21%    72%
10    Price controls                                 15%   23%   47%       15%
11    Efficiency of the judiciary                    23%   23%   23%    31%
12    Unexpected and often changes in Governments     7%                   93%
rules, laws and policies                     I
- 29 -



13    Crime                                           8%     8%    42%    42%
14    Corruption                                      8%           23%    69%
15    Inflation                                       8%           38%     54%
16    Inflation and Price Instability                 7%           29%    64%
17    Standards and Certification Regulation          7%     7%    43%     43%
- 30 -



Anniex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
As part of the Intensive Leaming ICR exercise, the Bank team undertook a stakeholder workshop with
the beneficiaries of both the adjustment and TA components of the EDAL. The stakeholders workshop
included two sessions. A morning session was held with the counterpart Governmental agencies
involved in the adjustment portion of the loan. An afternoon session focused on the TA component and
involved beneficiary enterprise directors, managers who had received training, and professional
associations. Lessons leamed were discussed, the EDAL was evaluated, and suggestions were given for
future loans in the PSD area. What follows below is a summary of comments made in both sessions.
Adjustment Component
1.    Victor lvchenko, SSMC:
EDAL I transferred to Ukraine modem know-how on the development of a stock market. During this
project, the WB showed the benefits of market approaches to economic development. However, it would
have been useful if the objectives of the project had been laid out more concretely as it is difficult to
evaluate the achievement of general objectives. It would also have been useful if the project description
had clearly demonstrated how implementation of its individual specific objectives contributed to a change
in the overall picture. PR activity is crucial for the project. If we inform citizens in a language they
understand, we would enjoy more public support.
2.     Valentina Golovinskaya, MOE:
The training and TA component of the EDAL was highly valuable. The WB should also consider
extending lending on soft terms to enterprises.
3.    Pavel Kolesnik, MOE:
EDAL led to progress in the sphere of deregulation. In particular, registration procedures were simplified,
the number of licensed activities were reduced, and the number of tax inspections were reduced. The
next project should pay even more attention to deregulation of the economy.
4.     Valeriy Parhomenko, MOF:
Future projects need to continue to work in the area of modernizing accounting, particularly the practical
implementation of new accounting standards. Efforts at the macro and micro levels need to be
coordinated.
5.    Alexey Shepitko, SPF:
The EDAL helped to transfer former state owned enterprises to real owners by giving the GoU specific
privatization requirements. The next project should envisage assistance in promoting Ukrainian
enterprises abroad and making them known to potential foreign investors. This will require developing
financial reports in accordance to international standards.
6.    Andrey Stepanenko, SSMC:
The crucial things that are needed by Ukrainian restructured enterprises are PR and capital. The next
proJect should focus on disseminating information about Ukrainian enterprises in a professional manner.
7.    Miroslav Illyinsky, MOE:
EDAL I and EDAL 11 acted as catalysts for structural reform. During the implementation of these two
programs, efficient working groups and teams of experts were created. They helped to develop
institutional capacity in the GoU and this experience was used in drafting the Government's new
privatization program. In the next project, greater attention should be paid to the regions. There should
be a clear delineation of the objectives and the expected results of technical assistance.
TA component
1.    Vitally Kovtiukh, Ukrainian Association of Investment Business, Kiev:
EDAL I funding helped the Association to actively participate in developing and drafting new laws. In
particular, under the EDAL funding, the Foundation of Legislative Initiatives was founded. However, the
SSMC failed to delegate some of its functions to relevant professional associations, and this limited our
- 31 -



efficiency. Associations require more funding if they are to carry out their functions.
2.     Vasiliy Darkov, Association of professional Insurance brokers of Ukraine, Kiev:
In future projects, the GoU should provide more support to those implementing the project. An action
plan and some organizational details need to be clearly worked out together with the participants of the
project at the preparatory stage. With the help of EDAL I, an official market of insurance brokers was
created in Ukraine. The Association became the only member from the CIS to affiliate with the foreign
professional insurance broker association known as BIPAR. Recommendations: Impose less limitations
on ways that project funds can be spent. Hold regular (every 6 months) meetings of project participants
to discuss progress and share experience in the way we are doing in this workshop.
3.     Zahar Gorlovskiy, Electromash, Kherson (provided written notes):
Due to the EDAL project, company revenues in 1999 grew 33.2 percent which led to a significant
reduction in costs. We developed and started introducing new management, accounting, and financial
accounting procedures. We need more assistance in developing quality business plans to attract foreign
investors and establish contacts with potential foreign partners. We would also like the consultants to
continue their work in the enterprise and focus on the implementation of their recommendations.
Enterprises, which have received restructuring and advice from donor projects and achieved practical
results, should have the opportunity to receive credits from the World Bank on soft terms. In particular,
we need support in introducing new accounting standards. In general, further stages of the project
should concentrate on achieving practical results that are clearly linked to enterprise performance. Our
company's experts are now sharing their experience and the lessons they have learned with other
enterprises in the region.
4.     Dmitriy Kadelnik, Kvartz, Chemovtsy:
Micro-level assistance to enterprises should be paralleled with promoting changes at the macro level,
particularly with regard to relevant legislation. Our critical needs include upgrading the HR capacity of
enterprises and training of our employees. Success stories need to be developed and duplicated at other
companies. Enterprises require consulting advice on a short-term basis to resolve specific problems.
Consulting advice should be followed up by giving the enterprise access to investment resources.
5.     lina Kulinskaya, Mal'va, Chemovtsy:
The project should have started earlier as Ukraine lost time in the first years of transition. Consultants
are well theoretically briefed but practical recommendations need to be worked out together with the
enterprise management. It would be most helpful to have consultants with sectoral expertise as well.
The project managed to change the mentality of people.
6.     Valentina Karduba, Nadia, Chemovtsy:
Restructuring is a continual process which needs the support of professional consultants at all stages,
and we would like to continue our work with the consultants.
7.     Victoria Melnik, Professional Association of Registrators and Depositaries, Kiev:
The project helped to upgrade the professional knowledge of registrars and depositaries. However, a lot
of project money was lost because the dollars of funding had to be exchanged into hyrvna and we
received this money shortly after the financial crisis of 1998. There are also too many limitations in the
project on the ways the funding can be used.
8.     Alla Savchenko, Federation of Professional Accountants and Auditors, Kiev:
Under the project we launched a full-scale training of trainers process to teach International Accounting
Standards to enterprises.
9.     Valeriy Shepel, Ukrainian Center for Enterprise Restructuring, Kiev:
Due to the project, we trained a number of consultants that are now working with various enterprises. We
managed to change the mentality of people. Assistance at the micro level is crucial as it helps to build
investor confidence.
- 32 -



10.    Olga Tripolskaya, Ukrainian Association of the Investment Business, Kiev:
A joint training program for middle managers and enterprise owners (who take strategic decisions) would
be very useful. Special training is needed in ways to raise capital through the stock market. Enterprises
need to publish more professionally prepared financial information (annual report) to attract domestic
financing.
11.    Joseph Kotliar, Vzutex, Khmelnitsky:
The project helped to create a critical mass of market oriented people at our enterprise. The key target
group for training and support is middle management, who are the ones who move things forward. The
assistance offered by the project at the micro level should be supported by promoting relevant changes
in legislation.
12.    Galina Yeremenko, Intemational Center for Privatization, Investment and Management, Kiev:
Further training programs should be more focused, i.e. in the sectoral areas that concem enterprise
managers and this training should be very practically-oriented. Advanced training should be oriented
towards solutions for specific problems at enterprises. Associations should receive further funding to
help enterprises to implement the restructuring plans developed under EDAL 1. A nation wide system of
professional training of managers from all types of enterprises should be developed in Ukraine.
Companies should receive special funding to pay for professional training and consuHtancy, since free or
cheap services are not usually appreciated. A special system of training of trainers in the regions needs
to be developed. Training in business specific areas has become increasingly important: training in
economics and accounting is not enough.
13.    Pavel Parkhomenko, Kation, Khmelnitsky:
Enterprises need assistance in working with the GoU's tax authorities. Special companies providing
business information and giving access to foreign sources of information should be launched in the
regions. This will help enterprises to promote themselves and find business links abroad.
14.    Sergey Bushuyev, Ukrainian Project Management Association, Kiev:
The project helped to develop and upgrade the system of project management training and education in
Ukraine, including Masters and PhD programs, to Western standards.
15.    Victor Gorin, Khimmash, Korostyshev:
The project helped our enterprise to achieve real growth and liquidity. In particular, we introduced new
energy saving technologies. Further projects should consider introducing support in ISO 9000
certification.
16.    Alla Dontsova, Kyiany, Kiev:
The project helped to change the mentality of our employees and to introduce modern planning
techniques. The training component should be expanded and as many employees as possible should be
trained, especially in practical business, so that a cadre of trained employees exist in any given
enterprise.
17.    Andrey Kuvshinov, F.A. Service, Kiev:
EDAL I helped to introduce professional standards of financial analysis. In future, a national certification
system for professional accountants, financial analysts, and lawyers needs to be introduced in Ukraine.
The next project should address the problem of raising financing, particularly short-term financing.
Several success stories should be developed and disseminated.
18.    Sergey Kostachkin, Tent, Cherkassy:
EDAL I helped to introduce modem management and planning techniques. In future, more attention
should be given to the training of middle management, as there is still a gap between the level of the
professional qualifications of top leaders and their middle management.
19.    Nadezhda Deyneka, Textile Factory, Khmelnitsky:
The consultants acted as catalysts of change at our enterprise. All enterprises undergoing the
- 33 -



restructuring exercise should share their experiences and unite to solve problems.
20.    Boris Kuzminsky, Ukraina, Zhitomir:
The project changed the mentality of the people involved. We introduced modern marketing, accounting,
promotional activities, and personnel training. World Bank projects would be even more efficient if
assistance to enterprises was paralleled with regulatory reforms at the macro-level. Future projects
should work with the GoU to ensure that businesses in Ukraine can be run transparently and all
businesses are subject to the same rules and regulations (i.e. remove customs and other preferential
treatment).
21.    Vladimir Koguy, Lviv Tooling Factory, Lviv:
The project changed the mentality of people and helped to upgrade the image of the company. We
became attractive to foreign investors.
22.    Gennadiy Kott, Elektroizmeritel, Zhitomir:
The project helped us to optimize production and learn initial business planning principles. We would like
to continue working with the consultants to focus on the implementation of the restructuring plan they
designed. In order to increase the effect of the project, the World Bank should lobby the Government to
liberalize the tax system in Ukraine.
23.    Vladimir Shepel, Federation of Professional Accountants and Auditors, Kiev:
The project helped to change the mentality of civil servants. The WB should render more support to
NGOs so they can become a force capable of solving national problems, lobbying, and initiating new
developments.
- 34 -



