Report No. PIC1993
Project Name                   Ukraine-Enterprise Development...
Adjustment Loan
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Enterprise Sector
Project ID                     UAPA35814
Borrower                       Government of Ukraine
Implementing Agency            State Property Fund of Ukraine
Date PID Prepared              April 7, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       September, 1995
Projected Board Date           December, 1995
Country and Sector Background
1.   In late 1994 Ukraine embarked on an ambitious and comprehensive
economic reform program. This followed the election of President Kuchma
in July, 1994 and his call for a radical break from the past in economic
policies. The reform program has been supported by a $350 million IMF
Systemic Transformation Facility, a $997.3 million IMF standby
arrangement and a $500 million World Bank Rehabilitation Loan, all
approved since late 1994. The reform program includes stabilization and
structural measures aimed at reducing the rate of inflation and
promoting sustainable economic recovery. Specific early measures
included the lifting of most price controls, unification of the exchange
rate, sharp reductions in subsidies on bread and public utilities and
the adjustment of energy prices to full cost recovery levels. Later
measures now being supported by the Bank and IMF include further
reduction of the fiscal deficit, limited growth in the money supply,
continued positive real interest rates, ceilings on SOE wage bills,
further price and trade liberalization, rapid implementation of mass and
small-scale privatization and reform of the social safety net.
2.   The mass privatization program which is at the core of the economic
reforms will include the privatization of 8,000 medium and large
enterprises in 1995 by public auction for registered paper certificates
which are at present being distributed to the population. The
methodology for mass privatization was dramatically simplified in
November 1994 and a full mandate given to the State Property Fund (SPF)
to implement it. In addition it is planned to privatize the majority of
small enterprises in Ukraine by the end of 1995. Creation of the
secondary markets that will encourage the transfer of share ownership
after mass privatization is still at an early stage but rapid action is
planned to ensure that mechanisms and regulations are created to ensure
adequate capital markets.
Objectives
3.   The main objectives of the proposed Sector Adjustment Loan will be
to deepen, accelerate and extend the recently initiated privatization



process, and to promote the post-privatization restructuring of
enterprises and the creation of the capital markets necessary in a
market economy. The loan will also provide quick disbursing balance of
payments support to the economy during the transition. Secondary
objectives will be to ease the disruptive transitional effects of
enterprise restructuring on the population by supporting the government
in providing temporary budgetary support for the social safety net in
cases where enterprises wish to divest their social assets to local
authorities after privatization. The promise of financial support from
government for the divestment of these assets after privatization will
also encourage enterprises to go through the privatization process.
Description
4.   The loan will provide quick disbursing funds ($290 million) in
return for the implementation of policy and institutional reforms. The
conditions are likely to include:
-    implementation of the mass privatization program of 8,000
enterprises initiated under the Rehabilitation Loan in
specific identified stages
-    implementation of the small scale privatization initiated
under the Rehabilitation Loan,
-    resolution of the obstacles to privatization presented by the
extensive leasing of SOEs and of other methodological
obstacles to rapid implementation of the program such as
simplification of procedures for agro-industrial
privatization, use of the new index-linked savings
certificates in the privatization process, and procedures for
selling shares at below nominal value in cases of
undersubscription at the auctions
-    extension of the privatization program to include 2,000
additional medium and large enterprises (beyond the 8,000
already planned) for mass privatization and ten large
enterprises for case-by-case privatization
-    creation of an adequate regulatory and institutional framework
for capital markets, including securities and exchange
commission, self-regulatory organization for market
participants, and regulations for the operation of collective
investment vehicles such as investment funds, stock exchanges,
dealers and brokers, depositories, registrars and all other
capital markets institutions, as well as rules governing
investor protection, disclosure requirements for publicly
floated securities and insider trading
-    provision of grants from the central government budget to
cover the operating costs over a three year period on a
reducing basis for local authorities willing to take over,
both in legal and in practical and financial terms, the social
assets such as clinics and kindergartens to be divested by
privatized enterprises.
-2-



5.   A small investment component ($10 million) will provide necessary
TA and equipment to the agencies responsible for implementing the
programs, in particular the State Property Fund and the Ukrainian Center
for Post-Privatization Support. This TA will include consulting advice
on restructuring for post-privatized enterprises as well as assistance
in creating a commercial enterprise data base, private sector
professional associations and training programs for managers of
privatised enterprises
6.   All of the components are mutually supportive in their
encouragement for the enterprise privatization and post-privatization
restructuring processes. They will also be designed to be reinforce and
be compatible with reform initiatives supported by other Bank and donor
operations focussing on municipal finances and delivery systems for
social services.
Financing
7.   The estimated cost of the adjustment operation is $300 million.
Grant funds already identified in principle from other donors will
finance the bulk of the TA associated with the program.
Implementation
8.   Implementation of the policy reforms has already begun since loan
preparation began in mid-1995. The social assets and TA components are
expected to begin early in 1996. The State Property Fund will be the
main implementing agency and will also have general supervisory
responsibility but other agencies will also be involved in
implementation including local authorities and a capital markets
regulatory organization yet to be created.
Sustainability
9.   The main objectives of the loan are to bring about an irreversible
transformation in the ownership structure and management of Ukrainian
enterprises, to accelerate the development of the private sector in
Ukraine and to create capital markets infrastructure that will serve
Ukraine indefinitely in the future. By definition these objectives are
intended to bring about sustainable change. The temporary financing of
social asset operations, however, is intended to be transitional. The
sustainability of these social assets after the project is completed
will depend on local government financial capabilities and priorities
and on the extent of cost recovery applied.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
10. The experience of the Rehabilitation Loan has shown that well
designed policy conditionality in the area of privatization can bring
about necessary dramatic reforms that were previously unobtainable,
particularly when acting closely alongside grant financed technical
assistance from other donors. Very close cooperation is being and will
continue to be maintained with the other donors during loan preparation
and execution, especially with respect to planned TA activities. The
major donors have expressed their strong support for the project
-3 -



concept. Also experience has shown and is continuing to show that
project preparation can be a unique opportunity to deliver hands on
assistance to Government authorities in defining and dealing with
operational issues in both design and implementation. Experience has
also shown that Ukraine is unlikely to wish to borrow large amounts for
TA and is likely to be able to mobilize substantial grant funds for this
purpose. For this reason the TA component is very small and limited to
critical areas.
Poverty Category
11. Sections of the population vulnerable to the effects of enterprise
restructuring will be directly targeted during the life of the project
as beneficiaries of the financing of the local governments' operating
costs of the social assets divested by the enterprises
Environmental Aspects
12. The loan will have no direct environmental impact and is therefore
a category C operation.
Program Objective Categories
13. The proposed project strongly supports the Bank's program objective
of development of a policy framework conducive to private sector
development
Task Manager:
Bernard Drum, EC4PE
(202) 473-6032 (tel)
(202) 522-0005 (fax)
Contact Point -      Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Project Name                   Ukraine-Enterprise Development Loan
Appraisal Date                 September, 1995
Board Date                     December, 1995
- 4 -



Managing Division              EC4PE
Lending Instruments            Sector Adjustment Loan
Date (est) for receipt
of EA by Bank                  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C)            C
Project ID                     UAPA35814
Total Project Cost             US$300 million
Task Manager                   Bernard Drum
Sector                         Private Sector Development
Status                         Standby
Date Assigned
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated    March 29, 1995
(Please do not leave any items blank:   use "N/A" or "To be developed"
when appropriate)
Major Project Components:   (presents description of project components)
Policy and institutional reforms supporting enterprise privatization,
post- privatization enterprise restructuring and capital markets
development, divestment of social assets and TA for restructuring of
enterprises after privatization.
Major Environmental Issues: (describes major environmental issues
identified or suspected in project)
None
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser
scope associated with project)
None
Proposed Actions:    (describes actions proposed to mitigate
environmental issues described in project)
N/A
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (reasons for
environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from
initial classification)
No environmental risks
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up
date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local
groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given
- 5-



permission to release EA, etc)
N/A
Signed by:
Paul J. Siegelbaum, Chief, EC4PE
Signed by:
Seth (EMTEN), Regional Environment Division Chief
- 6 -



