Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6923-UA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$310 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
June 3, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 30. 1996)
Currency Unit  =   Karbovanets
US$1   =   186,000 Karbovanets
1 Karbovanets   =   US$0.0000054
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSECAL        Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CMA            Change Management Assistance
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSO            Clearing and Settlement Organization
EDAL           Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EDP            Export Development Project
EU/TACIS       European Union Program of Technical Assistance for the CIS
FIDL           Financial Institutions Development Loan
GATT           General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IPO            Initial Public Offering
KBV            Karbovanets
MFERT          Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
MOE            Ministry of Economy
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MPP            Mass Privatization Program
MU             Monitoring Unit
NASDAQ         National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations
NBU            National Bank of Ukraine
NDS            National Depositary System
OTC            Over the Counter
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
SBA            Standby Arrangemiient
SEC            Securities and Exchange Commission
SPF            State Property Fund
SOE            State Owned Enterprise
SRO            Self Regulatory Organization
SSMC           Securities and Stock Markets Commission
STF            Systemic Transformation Facility
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
UNCTAD         United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UCPPS          Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization Support
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
USE            Ukrainian Stock Exchange
VER            Voluntary Export Restraint
WTO            World Trade Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UKRAINE: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary  .............................................
INTRODUCTION ...................................................1
I. BACKGROUND  .................................................1
Recent Economic Performance  ......................................                                                              1
Government's Economic Reform  Priorities   ..............................    2
Enterprise Sector in Transition  ......................................    3
Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan in the Bank's Assistance Strategy   ...                                        ......   5
II. MAINTAINING A COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT .........................  5
External Trade and Tariffs   ........................................    6
Domestic Trade and Prices ....... .                      ................................ 7
III.  GOVERNMENT'S  PRIVATIZATION  PROGRAM                                       ..........................    8
Mass Privatization of Medium  and Large Enterprises ........................    8
Small-Scale Privatization   ........................................                                                            11
IV. GOVERNMENT'S CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  ....                                                                   .......  12
Creation of an Independent State Supervisory Body  ........................    12
Promotion  of Self-Regulatory Organizations   ............................                                                      12
Regulation   .................................................                                                                  13
Transitional Institutional Arrangements   ...............................                                                       14
V.  DONOR  COORDINATION   .........................................                                                                        14
General  ...................................................                                                                    14
EU-TACIS   .................................................                                                                    15
U SA ID      ......................... ....... ............ .......                                                             15
Other Donors   ...............................................                                                                  15
VI.  THE  PROPOSED  LOAN   ..........................................                                                                      16
Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement   .........................    16
Loan Objectives and Description    ...................................    16
Project Implementation  and Key Measures for Disbursement  ..................    18
Technical Assistance Component for Post-Privatization  Enterprise Restructuring  ...                                   ...    21
Loan Administration for Investment Component (Technical Assistance)   ....                                         .......    25
Loan Administration  for Adjustment Component   .........................    26
Procurement under Investment Component (Technical Assistance) ...............    26
Procurement under Adjustment Component .............................    27
Disbursement of Investment Component (Technical Assistance)  ................    27
Disbursement of Adjustment Component   ..............................    28
Reporting and Auditing   .........................................    28
Project Sustainability  ...........................................    29
Lessons Learned from  Previous Bank Involvement  ........................    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.                                     I



Environmental Aspects  .............................  29
Program Objective Categories ...........        ..................  29
Benefits and Risks .............................   29
Recommendation  .............................   30
TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements ............................... 27
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1    Memorandum on Enterprise Sector Development Policy
ANNEX 2    Policy Matrix
ANNEX 3    Timetable of Key Processing Events
ANNEX 4    Status of Bank Group Operations
ANNEX 5    The Privatization Process in Ukraine
ANNEX 6    Capital Markets in Ukraine
ANNEX 7    Technical Assistance Component - Procurement Details
ANNEX 8    Ukraine at a Glance
ii



UKRAINE: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Ukraine
Implementing Agency:      State Property Fund of Ukraine
Amount:                   US$310 million equivalent
Terms:                    Payable in seventeen years, including four years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Poverty Category:         n/a
Objectives
and Description:          The main objective of the Loan is to support the Government's trade
and price liberalization, privatization, capital markets development and
post-privatization restructuring programs. Other objectives are to: (i)
provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports; and (ii)
support the development of the foreign exchange markets. The reform
program to be supported by the loan will include the implementation of
a privatization program for 5,000 medium and large enterprises as well
as the acceleration of privatization of small scale enterprises and the
creation of a legislative framework and institutions to regulate the new
capital markets including a Securities and Stock Markets Commission
and a self-regulatory organization for market intermediaries. The loan
will also finance technical assistance to help with post-privatization
restructuring.
Benefits:                 The reforms would put Ukraine irreversibly on the path to a market
economy by transferring a critical mass of enterprises from the public to
the private sectors, promoting private initiative as the main engine of
economic development and growth and providing a competitive
environment within which the private sector can flourish. The loan
would support the creation and functioning of well regulated capital
markets promoting secondary securities trading after privatization,
encouraging further ownership consolidation and other post-privatization
iii



restructuring and governance improvements and the mobilization of
domestic and foreign resources for equity investment.
Risks:                     The main risk is the possible loss of political commitment to reform due
to lack of consensus and possible strong opposition from vested
interests. Trade and price liberalization and structural reforms strike at
the heart of the old centrally planned order. Experience elsewhere,
however, has shown that effective and rapid privatization can create a
momentum that is very difficult to reverse, especially if the program is
designed, as this one is, to promote rapid change and enterprise
restructuring and adaptation to the market after privatization. A second
risk is that the implementing agencies will not be able to handle a
program of this magnitude for which there have been few precedents
anywhere. This risk has being minimized by promoting a bottom-up
approach to privatization which harnesses the dynamics already at work
at the enterprise level and by ensuring that the enterprise employees and
population at large are able to participate fully in the program.
Judicious use has also been made of technical assistance, both in the
loan itself and in the form of grants from other donors to help ease
implementation bottlenecks. The final risk is that the level of donor
support needed to maintain the reform program in Ukraine is not
maintained. This risk will be minimized if the program supported by
the loan is successful but the Bank will also keep up its donor
coordination efforts to try to ensure continued support for Ukrainian
privatization, post-privatization restructuring and capital markets
development as the program proceeds.
Economic Rate of Return: n/a
Project ID Number:         UA-PA-35814
This report is based on the work of missions that visited Ukraine between June, 1995 and March, 1996
comprising Messrs./Mmes Bernard Drum (Task Manager), Ana Goshko, Beth Shair, Lieve Vandenhoeck,
Angela Prigozhina, Hakan Wilson, Igor Artemiev, Gregory Jedrzejczak, Ritu Anand, Ana Revenga and
Alexander Kaliberda. Mmes. Tracy McTernan and Suzanne Coffey provided administrative support and
processed the documentation. The peer reviewers were Messrs. Ira Lieberman, Andrew Ewing and Gerhard
Pohl. Messrs. Basil Kavalsky and Paul Siegelbaum are the Department Director and Managing Division Chief,
respectively.
iv



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO UKRAINE
INTRODUCTION
1. I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Enterprise
Development Adjustment Loan to Ukraine for the equivalent of US$310 million. The loan would be
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of seventeen years, including four years
of grace.
I. BACKGROUND
Recent Economic Performance
2. After Ukraine declared its independence in August 1991. economic conditions deteriorated
dramatically. Between 1990 and 1994, recorded output dropped by a cumulative 50 percent, inflation
surged to over 10,000 percent in 1993, and the stock of external debt (including arrears) mounted
from zero in 1991 to US$ 7.2 billion by end-1994. Particularly hard hit were energy-intensive
industries and those facing shrinking markets for their products, such as the defense-related industries.
Because domestic sources provided only about half of the country's energy needs, the adjustment of
imported energy prices to world levels implied a sharp terms-of-trade shock, which led to shortages,
supply disruption, and accumulation of payment arrears. Only the informal sector of the economy
has consistently grown since independence, providing a cushion against the impact of the output
collapse.
3. In October 1994, a newly elected president Kuchma announced a radical break from past
economic policies and outlined a program aimed at reducing inflation, improving living standards, and
promoting a sustainable recovery. In support of the Government's economic program, the IMF
approved, in October 1994, a first purchase under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) of
US$365 million, and the World Bank approved, in December 1994, a Rehabilitation Loan of US$ 500
million. The second purchase under the STF (US$365 million) and a Standby Arrangement (SBA)
for the maximum 100 percent of quota (US$1.5 billion) were approved by the IMF in April 1995.
4. For the first nine months of the program, performance was strong: fiscal and credit policies were
considerably tightened and inflation fell sharply from monthly rates of 20 percent in early 1995 to
around 5 percent during April-August 1995; foreign exchange restrictions were largely abolished and
anti-export incentives diminished with, as a result, exports to western markets expanding strongly and
the exchange rate stabilizing; most price controls were removed, except on some foodstuffs and
communal services which prices were adjusted to increase the share of costs recovered; and energy
prices were raised to world levels. The legal basis for privatization was put in place, and initial steps
taken in areas such as land reform and restructuring of the energy sector.
1



5. In the second half of 1995, however, there were slippages in implementation of both the
stabilization and structural reform programs. The Government renewed various forms of financial
support to enterprises, including through direct budgetary lending. The targets of the stabilization
program were not met. There were overruns in government expenditures as the Government granted
generous wage increases and recommenced subsidizing the coal sector. Banking system credit
exceeded program levels, and external payment arrears were incurred by the Government, both on
payments for gas imports and on foreign debt service obligations. After several months of single
digit inflation, monthly inflation in September, 1995 jumped to 14.2 percent. This reflected, in part,
the effects of increases in administered prices for communal services and housing, but also appears to
have been driven by a jump in underlying inflation. Structural reforms lagged behind schedule: in
particular, mass privatization gathered momentum only slowly.
6. Nevertheless, some adjustment had occurred: for the whole of 1995, the consolidated state budget
cash deficit is estimated to have reached 5.25 percent of GDP (revised classification), about 0.75
percent of GDP higher than targeted, and the deficit on a commitments basis is estimated at between
7 to 9.5 percent of GDP -- still a substantial reduction from the previous year of 9.3 percent of GDP
and about 15 percent of GDP, respectively. And the Government renewed its commitment to
stabilization, privatization and liberalization, despite a difficult social and political situation --
including strikes by coal miners and teachers, pressures from the agrarian lobby, and the continuous
opposition of Parliament. Corrective measures were taken in early 1996 to stabilize the situation: the
Government settled its external payment arrears to Russia; monetary policy was tightened; communal
service tariffs, rents, public transportation fares, and energy prices to households were raised to cover
60 percent of costs including taxes. Concomitantly, President Kuchma reiterated his commitment to
privatization and steps were taken to expedite the process, and substantial progress was made in
removing the main remaining export restrictions.
7. This paved the way to reaching agreement with the IMF on a new program for 1996. A Standby
Arrangement for US$900 million equivalent was approved on May 10, 1996. Under the new
program fiscal policy will be tightened to limit the cash deficit to 3.5 percent of GDP in 1996;
monetary policy will also be brought under tighter control with the aim of reducing inflation to
monthly rates of 1-2 percent by the end of 1996 and to increase gross international reserves by about
US$600 million. And there will be monthly targets and bi-monthly reviews to better monitor the
program.
Government's Economic Reform Priorities
8. Although the initial results of the stabilization efforts are positive, the reform process is clearly
far from complete. There are two immediate priorities:
(a) Consolidating the stabilization process. Large deficits and soaring inflation do not provide a
supportive environment for investment, employment creation and growth. The tightening of
credit and fiscal policies under the stabilization program has paid off in terms of reduced
inflation but such policies need to be further tightened and sustained. The Government will
have to resist political pressures for an increase in subsidies to industry, mining and
agriculture.
2



(b) Restoring growth. A major concern is the weak performance of the real economy. After
declining by 23 percent in 1994, real GDP is estimated to have declined by an additional 12
percent in 1995. This reflects the continued contraction of the state sector: according to the
Ministry of Statistics, overall industrial production dropped by 17 percent in 1995. Although
there are signs of a fast-growing private sector, visible in buoyant informal sector activity and
in the growth of exports to non-FSU countries, this sector is not yet large enough to pull the
whole economy forward.
9.     Experience from Central and Eastern Europe suggests that one year into the reform process is
too soon to expect a resumption of growth. In almost every transition country, the first two years
have been years of fiscal consolidation and deepening of structural reforms, usually accompanied by
the initiation of privatization drives. Since recovery usually comes from the private sector and from
the expansion of exports, Ukraine's immediate need is the creation of an environment that fosters the
rapid growth of its private enterprise sector and enhances its ability to export goods. Effective budget
constraints on state-owned enterprises also would improve growth prospects. Therefore, the
resumption of economic growth in Ukraine will depend on successful stabilization and an acceleration
of structural reforms aimed at promoting and sustaining both a dynamic private sector and improved
living standards.
10.    For the next few years, the reform agenda will be dominated by four key elements: the need
to promote efficient private sector activity, the need to restructure the public sector recasting it in a
supportive role, the need to ensure the social sustainability of the transition, and the need to ensure
environmental sustainability.
Enterprise Sector in Transition
11.    Statistics on the size of the enterprise sector in Ukraine are unreliable and there is no
comprehensive source of information. The number of medium and large-scale enterprises, state
owned at the time of independence,' is estimated by the most reliable sources at around 18,000. The
number of small-scale objects is estimated by the State Property Fund at around 45,000, of which
8,000 were already privatized up to the end of 1994. However as privatization proceeds and objects
are broken up at the time of privatization the total number of small scale enterprises could potentially
be 50 percent higher than this. The new private sector and the informal sector also account for a
growing proportion of the economy. Some estimates put informal activity at 50 percent of GDP or
greater. Much of this is undeclared activity by state enterprises or by private individuals using state
enterprise assets.
12.    The structural problems of the Ukrainian industrial and other sectors were inherited from the
former Soviet central planning system. Ukraine inherited a concentration of industrial production in
very large enterprises, sometimes up to ten times the size of their western equivalents, highly
'Medium and large scale enterprises are defined generally as those having a book value as of August 1,
1993, of kbv 700 million or greater or as having special monopolistic characteristics or earmarked for
special terms of privatization such as by foreign investment or military conversion. For a more precise
definition of enterprise groups, see the footnote 1 to Annex 5.
3



monopolized and vertically integrated, closely linked with industry throughout the Soviet Union, and
designed and located in an era when transport and energy costs were negligible and when production
was geared to the needs of the military. The largest industrial enterprises in Ukraine are in
metallurgy, engineering and fuel and energy processing.
13.    Before the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991 most of the medium and large enterprises in
Ukraine reported directly to all-union ministries in Moscow. Procurement, marketing, product mix
and financing decisions were largely outside the hands of the enterprise managers. Although
privatization is now well underway, the majority of these enterprises are still in state hands and now
report in theory to ministries in Kiev. But the spontaneous privatization that started gathering
momentum following the Gorbachev reforms in the late 1980s, has continued. Most of the medium
and large State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in Ukraine have, in practice, been in a state of limbo for
several years with unclear accountability. Even more acutely than in neighboring Russia, Ukraine's
weak central administration has had little chance of imposing even a minimal governance regime over
the enterprise sector it inherited. In Russia, this limitation was recognized early and mass
privatization was implemented rapidly, transforming and clarifying the ownership structure of the
enterprise sector and paving the way for the post-privatization restructuring that is now taking place.
But in Ukraine, only during 1995 did privatization start seriously after two to three years' delay and
several false starts.
14.    The new ownership structure of the state enterprises that Ukraine inherited at independence is
now a somewhat ill-defined mixture consisting of state enterprises in their original form, enterprises
that have been corporatized but are still 100 percent owned by government or partially privatized,
enterprises owned by the state but leased to the working collectives, partially bought out leased
enterprises, fully bought out leased enterprises, enterprises privatized by competitive means, and other
forms of mixed property. The enterprise managers have established de facto control in almost all
cases, often exercising it in the name of the workers' collectives. Except for those enterprises
transparently privatized as open joint stock companies, the governance of these enterprises is vague.
There is widespread lack of clarity in property rights and accountability.
15.    The Kuchma government's economic reform program that started in late 1994 has already
done much to free up and develop private sector activity and if maintained and deepened should
eventually bring the informal sector into the mainstream. However the existence of large numbers of
state enterprises operating in an ownership and governance vacuum is still a major impediment to
this. This situation will continue until privatization is well advanced and clear property rights are
assigned to the new private owners. Until then, the tying up of assets, preferential treatment for SOE
managers and pressures for inflationary budgetary support to SOEs, all crowding out the private
sector, will continue. The market will not be allowed to promote restructuring and scarce managerial
skills will continue to be put to inefficient use within state enterprises themselves and also within
government, trying in vain to manage them. Rapid implementation of mass privatization and of
measures to facilitate post-privatization enterprise restructuring are therefore critical for the short term
structural transformation and the longer term economic development of Ukraine.
4



Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan in the Bank's Assistance Strategy
16.    An important aim in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine, which is being
discussed by the Board along with this loan, is to support the expansion of the private sector as the
main producer of goods and services in industry, commerce and agriculture. This support will focus
on promoting an enabling environment, and on supporting rapid privatization. The policy reforms
needed to achieve these aims would be supported by two complementary Bank adjustment operations
intended to deliver balance of payments support in return for economy wide policy reforms, and
taking over from the encouraging start made under the first stage of the reform process supported by
the Rehabilitation Loan. The Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan (EDAL) would be one of
these two operations. The other one would be the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSECAL)
which would aim at developing agriculture as a source of growth through land reform and promoting
competition in agricultural marketing and distribution.
17.   The EDAL has been designed to complement the AGSECAL by focusing on the highest
economy wide enterprise reform priorities, i.e. deepening and accelerating the privatization and post-
privatization restructuring processes for enterprises throughout Ukraine, maintaining a competitive
trade and price environment within which all enterprises operate, and promoting the rapid
development of capital markets. The EDAL builds on the trade and price liberalization measures and
enterprise reforms successfully initiated in early 1995 when, supported by the Bank's Rehabilitation
Loan, Government took important steps to liberalize domestic and export prices and trade, simplified
the legal framework for mass privatization and initiated the mass privatization process itself. The
EDAL will support, through policy conditionality, the full implementation and extension of these pro-
competition and ownership reforms and will also move to the next critical stages. Within a
competitive trade and price environment the mass privatization program will be fine tuned and
implemented to include thousands of enterprises according to an agreed timetable. By third tranche
release, anticipated for early 1997, over half of the Ukrainian industrial workforce will be working in
newly privatized enterprises. Steps are also being taken to realize the improvements in corporate
governance and restructuring that are the real promise of mass privatization and of which the mass
privatization process is only the first step. To this end the design of the EDAL has drawn on the
important lesson learned from the Russian and Central and Eastern European experiences, i.e. that
there is a need to move quickly with mass privatization, and concurrently with the development of
capital markets legislation, institutions and infrastructure. This will ensure that the millions of new
shareholders of privatized enterprises can trade their shares effectively, transparently and securely,
thereby allowing efficient further ownership change in the secondary markets and also paving the way
for inflows of new equity capital from local and foreign investors.
18.   The trade, price and privatization conditionality of the EDAL is the implementation and
extension of the reforms planned and initiated under the Rehabilitation Loan. The capital markets
development conditionality builds directly on the recommendations of the Bank's recently completed
Financial Sector Review (Report No. 14526-UA).
II. MAINTAINING A COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
19.   For the emerging private sector to contribute to economic recovery, a strong enabling
environment is required. This demands that prices reflect the true relative scarcities of goods and
5



factors, and that firms be given the right incentives both to produce what the market demands and to
invest. Through such early measures as trade liberalization and the deregulation of most prices,
Ukraine's reform program has limited the direct role of the state in the economy. But competitive
pressures need to be increased further.
External Trade and Tariffs
20.    The external trade regime is crucial to growth and competition in the economy, and much has
been accomplished in this area since the October 1994 reforms were launched. Ukraine has unified
the exchange rate and established convertibility for most current account transactions. It has also
adopted key parts of a liberal trade regime by eliminating all import and export quotas, including
most recently grain export quotas, and licenses (except import licenses for some pharmaceutical and
chemical products for health and safety reasons). Yet in early 1996 obstacles still remained to an
open trade regime.
21.    Export Regime. Remaining restrictive practices on the export side include the Special Export
Regime, registration of export contracts and the use of minimum export prices, and recently
introduced export duties. The Special Export Regime, which requires authorization of exporters for
coal, oil, gas, spirits, and non-ferrous metal scrap, covered 6 percent of Ukraine's exports in 1995.
In April 1995, in the context of its trade liberalization measures, the Government submitted a
proposal to Parliament to eliminate this regulation. In addition, in 1995 export contract registration
was generally removed, with the exception of three categories of goods: (i) goods covered by the
Special Export Regime; (ii) anti-dumping sensitive goods; and (iii) international contingent agreements
and voluntary export restraints (VERs). Prior to second tranche release: (a) the Special Export
Regime will be rescinded; and (b) registration requirements will be eliminated for all exports except
those under VERs and international contingent agreements and actual anti-dumping investigations.
22.    More importantly, about one-half of Ukraine's exports remained subject to minimum prices,
published and updated monthly by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MFERT).
Though called indicative prices meant to inform exporters, they were applied as mandatory minimum
prices by customs officials. Exemptions could be granted by MFERT. A decree dated September
25, 1995 removed this discretionary power from MFERT. But no statement that the published prices
were not mandatory had been issued until very recently, and in effect, Customs continued to apply
them as mandatory minimum export prices. In February 1996, a Presidential decree was issued
limiting the minimum export prices to certain categories which, however, are still quite broad. A list
of 14 narrowly defined categories of exports subject to indicative prices was published on May 8,
1996. Besides goods subject to anti-dumping cases against Ukraine, VERs and international
contingent agreements, this list includes livestock, skins (see para 23) and ferrous metal scrap. Prior
to second tranche release the application of indicative prices will be limited to only those exports
subject to international contingent agreements, VERs and anti-dumping investigations.
23.    On May 8, 1996 Parliament passed a law which introduced prohibitively high export duties on
live animals and skins. In addition, the law discriminates against intermediaries by granting duty
exemptions to agricultural producers who export their own goods and subjecting them only to
indicative prices. To alleviate the adverse consequences of this law, the Government intends to
introduce measures such as maintaining low indicative prices and ensuring broad access of agricultural
6



producers, including private farmers, to export markets for these products. Prior to second tranche
release, all export duties will be eliminated.
24.    Import Regime.  There are no quantitative restrictions on imports other than licensing of
certain pharmaceutical and chemical products for health and environmental protection purposes.
Import duties are relatively low. The trade-weighted average import tariff in 1995 was 5.8%. The
maximum import duty is 30% with only a few exceptions. The share of imports for which import
duties were higher than 30% was 0.03% in 1995. In January 1996, however, responding to pressure
from agricultural producers, the Government introduced amendments to the import duty levels for
agriculture and food products, resulting in a net overall slight increase in import duties for these
commodities. Furthermore, for goods requiring certification of quality and of compliance with
Ukrainian standards, importers experience difficulties in obtaining certificates. Prior to second
tranche release, the Government will ensure equal treatment of imported and domestically produced
goods with respect to the same standards. Specifically, the Government will abolish the requirement
for certification at the import level and will, instead, institute random checks of affected goods at the
wholesale or retail level irrespective of their origin. This will also be important in view of Ukraine's
accession to GATT/WTO. In addition, to maintain an effective competitive environment existing
import restrictions will not be increased. No quantitative restrictions or non-tariff barriers will be
introduced and the maximum tariff will be kept at or below 30 percent.
25.    Barter Trade. Recent statistics suggest that barter is diminishing in importance. According to
information from the Ministry of Statistics, barter transactions accounted for less than 34 percent of
total trade in 1995 (down from 40 percent in 1994). In December 1995, a Presidential decree which
provided for compulsory import deposits for barter transactions was repealed. Government has
confirmed that no new implicit or explicit taxes against barter, or other such discriminating measures
against exports have been or will be introduced.
Domestic Trade and Prices
26.    On the domestic front, the Government has gone far in the liberalization of prices and
services that remained under an administered system up to late 1994. Adjustments in energy prices to
world-equivalent levels a several-fold increase in prices to non-household users. Reductions in
general subsidies to households, and increases in housing rents, energy and transportation tariffs, and
fees for communal services have also been phased in. Cost recovery on housing and communal
services is now 60 percent and is to be raised to 80 percent by July 1996. The Ministry of Economy
(MOE) has also reduced the list of broadly defined categories of goods of "artificial monopolies" for
which price changes have to be declared and approved in advance from 16 to 9 categories. These
price controls have been additional to those regulating the prices of natural monopolies and public
utilities. To ensure a true competitive environment, it will be necessary to eliminate all remaining
controls on prices and profit margins. Specifically, prior to second tranche release, all forms of price
controls and profit margins on "artificial monopolies" will be discontinued, and the functions of the
Price Inspection Units charged with enforcing them will be accordingly limited to monitoring a small
number of publicly-produced goods and services.
27.    In order to bolster market competition based on correct price signals, the Government also
removed distortions in domestic trade. State purchases are now confined to the needs of budgetary
7



organizations. They are based on competitively established contractual obligations. The majority of
ceilings on trade mark-ups as well as profit margin restrictions also have been eliminated. The
remaining restrictions on profit and trade margins in the grain and bread products were removed in
May 1996. Further strengthening of the competitive environment will continue in 1997 and beyond.
III. GOVERNMENT'S PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
Mass Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises
28.    Strategy since Early 1995. The procedures for mass privatization were radically streamlined
by President's Decree No. 699 of November, 1994 (see Annex 5 for details of this decree and the
developments that led up to it). Almost immediately after the passage of this Decree, the State
Property Fund launched a privatization publicity campaign advertising the new Program and
privatization certificates were made available in the first five pilot oblasts where auction centers were
also set up. The first 56 enterprises were offered for sale at the end of January 1995. In February
1995 privatization certificates were made available in all oblasts and by April 15, 1995 an auction
center had been opened in every oblast capital except Crimea. By the end of 1995 a national network
of over 1,000 bid-collection sites had been created. The Government's goal was to initiate an
irreversible program which involved the participation of the population.
29.   In the first year of the Program, 1,338 packets of shares in medium-scale and large
enterprises were offered for sale through monthly auctions (month-long periods in which bids could
be submitted). Taking into account additional shares sold through closed subscription and other
methods the total number of medium and large enterprises transferred to majority private hands
during 1995 amounted to around 1,445 (or 1,015 taking the Project criterion of 70 percent transfer to
private hands). While this, in the course of less than a year, was an unprecedented accomplishment,
progress was far behind targets and numerous complications and areas for improvement in the
privatization process still remained to be resolved. Progress was still very slow up to the end of 1995
in implementing the improved procedures required by Decree No. 699 and the pipeline of enterprises
for the auction system started to run down. The Government has since, however, made good progress
on resolving these issues. As of May 31, 1996, over 1,800 enterprises have been transferred 70
percent to private hands since January 1, 1995. Transfer of shares through closed subscription,
privatization certificate auctions and other methods is continuing. Furthermore an additional 242
enterprises are currently in automatic clearing auctions for compensation certificates which will be
completed by mid-June. By the end of June, 1996, therefore, the number of medium/large enterprises
that will have met the criterion of 70 percent transfer to private hands since January 1, 1995 will
substantially exceed 2,000, and of these around 35 percent will be agro-industrial enterprises.
30.   Enterprise Pipeline (medium and large scale enterprises). Decree No. 699 mandated that a
list of 8,000 enterprises to be privatized through certificate auctions be approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers by December 25, 1994. By mid-May, 1995 a list of only 5,300 had been approved. The
delay was in part due to poor record-keeping on the part of the Ministry of Statistics, but also because
some branch ministries and other opponents of reform were trying to block enterprises from
appearing on the list. Through a concerted effort, the State Property Fund (SPF) completed a list of
2,700 additional enterprises and it was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in August 1995.
8



31.    In order to ensure a constant supply of enterprises for auction, the SPF systemized enterprise
corporatization and closed subscription procedures. This was accomplished through creation of
standard, self-explanatory enterprise preparation packages which provided step-by-step instructions for
completing the share allocation plan, registering the new open joint-stock company, and carrying out
the closed sale of shares to workers and other privileged parties. These packages were disseminated
to all enterprises still to be corporatized. The share allocation plans of those enterprises already
corporatized were amended to ensure that all shares not sold during closed subscription would be
offered for privatization and savings indexation certificates.
32.    A Law, approved by Parliament in October, 1995, required agro-industrial enterprises to be
privatized according to complicated, protracted procedures, including a 12-month closed subscription
period. In addition this Law effectively guaranteed 51 percent of the shares of agro-industrial
enterprises free of charge to agricultural suppliers, including state and collective farms. The Law
included other damaging features, including retroactivity, that would put it in conflict with other
privatization legislation. Agro-industrial enterprises account for almost half of the 8,000 enterprises
scheduled for mass privatization and under the new Law would not be able to be included in the
certificate auctions. To overcome the damaging effects of the Law a Presidential veto was issued in
December, 1995. The Parliament produced a revised version of the Law that was little different
from the first and a second Presidential veto was issued in February, 1996. Yet a third version of the
same Law was approved by Parliament in May, 1996 and vetoed for the third time by the President
on May 20. Meanwhile a February, 1996 Presidential decree on Privatization in 1996 established a
favorable environment for agro-industrial privatization by establishing mandatory privatization targets
for 1996 for all oblasts including those with high percentages of agro-industrial enterprises. The
Chairman of SPF gave instructions to Regional State Property Fund directors in March, 1996 to
accelerate agro-industrial enterprise privatization within their oblasts in line with the targets in the
February decree. Then in May, 1996 President Kuchma gave instructions to the Cabinet of Ministers
to prepare a package of normative documents that would formally streamline the agro-industrial
privatization process. These procedures are expected to be formally enacted during the second half of
1996.
33.    Another reason for slow development of the pipeline of enterprises for mass privatization was
the lack of incentives for enterprise managers and workers to go through the process. This was
particularly a problem for larger enterprises where the closed subscription process that precedes the
certificate auctions did not allow them to obtain a large enough percentage of the shares of the
enterprise. This was rectified by the State Property Fund in January, 1996 when they introduced a
standard methodology allowing those managers who cooperate with the privatization process and
deadlines the option of obtaining an additional 5 percent interest in their enterprise on preferential
terms, bringing the managers' total preferential access to 10 percent in addition to the preferential
access given to all employees during the closed subscription. This additional 5 percent preferential
access was also confirmed in the February Presidential decree on Privatization in 1996.
34.    Certificate Distribution. The pick-up rate at Savings Bank branches of paper privatization
certificates was relatively slow during the first few months' of their availability. To rectify this, the
SPF refocused its advertising campaign to spur citizens to collect their certificates. By the end of
May, 1996, over two thirds of the Ukrainian population had either collected their paper privatization
certificates or opened privatization accounts under the old methodology through the Savings Bank.
9



Also deadlines were issued in January, 1996 for the population to collect their privatization
certificates by June 30, 1996 and to use them in the auctions by December 31, 1996. Distribution of
savings indexation certificates to Savings Bank branches began in August 1995 and to the population
in February, 1996.
35.    Public Information. Because opponents of privatization have often attempted to block it on
the grounds of procedural violations, as was the case with the moratorium imposed by the Parliament
in July 1994, the SPF initiated an effort to further increase the transparency and fairness of the
privatization process. To this end, the SPF began to publish clearer information on enterprises when
announcing the sale of their shares at certificate auction including the full share allocation structure
for the enterprise and what amount was sold during closed subscription. Likewise, during the first
three months of 1996 the SPF created an information management system and mandated that auction
results be published within three weeks of the closing of the auction.
36.    Operation of Auctions. Demand during the first certificate auctions was relatively low. Of
the enterprises offered for sale, at least 70 percent were left with unsold packets of shares, which
needed to be re-auctioned. This was due to a range of factors, which the Government has since
addressed. First, the public was still unaccustomed to and somewhat skeptical about the use of paper
certificates and the new auction procedures. To overcome this, the SPF launched a public relations
campaign specifically addressing the public's remaining confusion and doubts. A second reason for
initial low public participation in auctions was the lack of a bidding center network in the regions.
While auction centers had been created in every oblast capital, about two-thirds of the population live
outside these areas. First attempts to conclude contracts with private entities as well as the Savings
Bank and the Post Office to act as bid reception sites were not successful. But since then, through an
aggressive campaign to attract private sector participants, the Ukrainian Auction Center has
successfully created a network of more than 1,000 bidding centers. Since late 1995, the percentage of
shares sold has started to increase.
37.    Probably the most important reason for the undersubscription of the first auctions was the
prohibition on the sale of shares below nominal price. This prohibition was initially based on
interpretation of law, though the underlying reasons for the SPF's adherence to this policy were fears
of accusations of selling enterprises too cheaply and that large parts of a single enterprise might be
transferred to one party. However, the results of the first auctions showed that many enterprises were
simply far less attractive to investors than others and that a share's nominal price was in many cases
not an accurate reflection of its market value. The operational problem that followed from this was
the need for many repeat auctions. The SPF realized that it was attempting to sell shares on a non-
economic basis and that it would need to expend significantly more resources to carry out repeat
auctions and attempt to distribute the remaining shares. Starting from January, 1996, after the
completion of the bidding center network ensured access for all citizens to participate in auctions, the
SPF stopped holding repeat auctions for privatization certificates. The Cabinet of Ministers approved
procedures for the use of savings indexation certificates in February, 1996. Since May 1996 the SPF
has allowed the complete clearing of auctions for shares sold for index-linked savings certificates
without any restriction on the selling price.
10



Small-Scale Privatization
38.   Progress with small-scale privatization during the first part of 1995 was slow. The first
hindrance was a delay in the passage of implementing procedures by the SPF and the Cabinet of
Ministers. The full set of documents required under the enabling 1994 Decree was not approved until
March 1995. A second problem was that local authorities in many areas did not cooperate with the
provision in the Decree which mandated that they compile and submit lists of all small-scale enterprises
available for privatization. Third, the sale of premises was not as effective an incentive as it was hoped,
since the valuation methodology which takes into account potential profitability set purchase prices
prohibitively high. Finally, the June 1, 1995 deadline for the exercise of lease-with-buyout did not
produce the expected number of buyouts, and had to be extended.
39.   The main factor which makes small scale privatization less amenable to policy actions by the
central government is that the process is controlled largely at the local level. It is therefore strongly
dependent on the degree of commitment of local politicians and officials. In Ukraine, as in Russia and
other countries of the former Soviet Union, this commitment varies greatly from one locality to another.
The results are the large variations between different cities and oblasts in the speed of small-scale
privatization despite strong commitment by the national government and the existence of a uniform and
relatively favorable national policy framework.
40.   The SPF has, however, given high priority to addressing the obstacles within its control.
Because of the delay in the approval of implementing procedures, a President's Decree was signed in
June 1995 amending the December 1994 Decree on Small-Scale Privatization and extending the deadline
for workers' collectives of leased enterprises to apply to buy-out until September 1, 1995. The SPF also
issued orders to all local privatization bodies that as of December, 1995 no leases on small enterprises
should be renewed after their expiration. In addition, the SPF started taking disciplinary action against
local officials who did not comply with instructions to implement small-scale privatization. Other
measures taken were increases in lease payments and reductions in asset valuations, both of which made
the buy-out of small-scale enterprises by leaseholders a more attractive option.
41.   As a result of the above measures and the growing impact of the hard budget constraint on local
authorities, implementation of the small-scale privatization program accelerated rapidly during the second
half of 1995. Among the donors, IFC was particularly active in supporting small scale privatization. As
of May, 1996 over 65 percent of formerly state controlled small enterprises are in private hands and
around 1,500 small enterprises per month are undergoing privatization. Barriers to entry for small-scale
entrepreneurs have been progressively removed over the last two years and surveys show that access to
real estate, once a major barrier, is no longer perceived by entrepreneurs as an obstacle to starting and
running a business. Early in 1994, responsibility for small-scale privatization was transferred from the
many individual privatization bodies to the SPF. The November, 1994 Presidential Decree on
Small-Scale Privatization strengthened the mandate of the SPF to complete the task. Although the
authority of the SPF was eroded during 1995 and then again in May, 1996 by the passage of a Small
Scale Privatization Law by Parliament, which transferred some of its responsibilities back to local
authorities, the mandate of the SPF to complete small scale privatization during 1996 was affirmed by
President Kuchma in a widely publicized pronouncement in January, 1996 and the SPF continues to
benefit from Presidential support. The Government's aim is now to complete small scale privatization
throughout Ukraine by the end of 1996.
11



IV. GOVERNMENT'S CAPITAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
42.   The Government recognizes the need to create well regulated and efficient capital markets as a
direct extension of the mass privatization program in particular, and as a transition to a market
economy in general. Protection of unsophisticated investors on the one hand and improvement of
corporate governance and strengthening of growth opportunities of privatized companies on the other
are the main objectives of the program. To achieve these objectives, the Government took a number
of measures during the latter part of 1995 and early in 1996.
Creation of an Independent State Supervisory Body
43.   A Securities and Stock Markets Commission (SSMC) was created in June, 1995 by
Presidential Decree. The Commission is responsible for the implementation of government policy with
regard to functioning of the securities markets and coordination of the activities of state executive
bodies in this area. A Chairman, Deputy Chairman and three Commissioners were appointed. They
are independent full-time officials appointed for a fixed term and removable only under very strict
conditions provided by the Decree. The SSMC has two purposes: (i) to promote and ensure
professional, fair, orderly and transparent operation of the capital markets, and (ii) to promote and
protect investors' rights. The SSMC will regulate, license and supervise the following activities and
services of market participants: (1) initial public offerings of securities, (2) operations of registrars,
depositories, custodians, (3) broker/dealer, investment advice and portfolio management (4) secondary
trading systems, (5) clearing and settlement, (6) offering and management of collective investment
vehicles, (7) investment banking services (underwriting, public placement, etc.). The Commission
has been staffed with specialists and furnished with the office space and equipment necessary for its
proper functioning. The Commission received a temporary budget to hire 82 staff members. Financial
resources were allocated from available grants to hire two long-term consultants in the areas of
securities legislation and operational procedures. The organizational units of the SSMC - legal,
licensing, supervision, corporate finance (securities) - had begun operations by late 1995.
44.   A good start has already been made in transferring responsibility to the SSMC of capital
markets supervisory functions previously exercised by other bodies. A Presidential decree of
November 18, 1995 transferred responsibility to the SSMC for supervising investment funds and
investment companies. A Presidential decree of March, 1996 transferred responsibility to the SSMC
for regulating activities of registrars and depositaries.
Promotion of Self-Regulatory Organizations
45.   Work on the creation of self-regulatory organizations (SROs) for market participants, and
plans for the delegation of supervisory functions from the SSMC to the SROs, have begun. The
Government has supported an initiative sponsored by USAID to organize firms offering services in
the area of collective investments into one SRO. The Government has also supported another initiative
sponsored by USAID to create an SRO of broker/dealers to operate a regulated over-the-counter
market. These organizations should gradually take over many of the regulatory and disciplinary
functions of the SSMC regarding business conduct of their members. The intention is for the SSMC
functions in this area to be reduced to supervision of the SROs and the hearing of appeals against
decisions taken by the SROs' statutory boards. The SSMC will approve Codes of Conduct of the SROs
12



by end-i 996. The legal framework for the SROs should be adopted and membership of the respective
SRO for all licensed market participants will become mandatory by third tranche release.
Regulation
46.   In September, 1995 the Parliament adopted a formal concept paper outlining the future
operations and development of the stock markets in Ukraine. The Government submitted a draft Law
on State Control of Securities Markets, based on the concept paper. The Law would give the SSMC
full authority to regulate and supervise the markets. In the meantime, pending approval of the Law
the SSMC has prepared a number of draft decrees and regulations which will empower the
Commission to regulate the most important areas of functioning of capital markets:
(a) Investor Protection. Measures to protect small unsophisticated investors, such as: disclosure
requirements for publicly offered and traded securities, safeguards against fraud and market
manipulation.
(b) Registrars, Depositories, and Custodians. An independent registrar to be obligatory for all
publicly traded (open) joint-stock companies; licensing, reporting, and capital requirements
for commercial entities offering above services.
(c) Broker/Dealers, Investment Advisors, Portfolio Managers, and their SROs. Licensing,
reporting, and capital requirements for commercial entities offering the above services; the
basic rights, responsibilities and supervisory functions of SROs of professional market
participants.
(d) Trading Systems. Standard requirements for licensed trading systems i.e. stock exchanges and
over-the-counter markets; this includes concentration of trade, transparent and fair trading
procedures, access for all licensed market intermediaries and membership of at least 10
licensed brokers/dealer firms, not-for-profit operations, dissemination of information, safe and
efficient system of clearing and settlement of transactions (securities and payments).
All of the above decrees will be enacted during the second half of 1996 and will provide a
functional legal basis for securities market supervision until a new version of the Securities
Law is approved by Parliament.
47.    During the first part of 1996 the Government started taking practical steps to transfer to the
SSMC all functions related to regulation and supervision of securities markets. The Commission is
working closely with the SPF to secure a smooth transition from initial distribution of shares in
privatized enterprises to secondary trading in these shares. To focus and coordinate the legislative
efforts of the SSMC and different governmental agencies, an inter-governmental Committee was
created. The Committee is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and consists of representatives of
the SSCM, the Ministries of Economy, Finance and Justice, the NBU, the Anti-Monopoly
Committee, and the SPF. The SSMC coordinates the work of the Committee.
13



Transitional Institutional Arrangements
48.    The Government has initiated and is supporting transitional arrangements whenever private
initiative is either not yet evident or exists but needs temporary assistance.
(a) Share Registrars. The Government initiated amendments to existing legislation necessary for
the mandatory creation of independent registrars of shares of privatized companies. Ten pilot
registrars have already been established and/or strengthened with support from international
donors. Additional serious candidates are already being considered. The ultimate goal is to
transfer registrar functions to private operators. A regulation, setting criteria for licensing
registrar/depositary services, has been adopted. While waiting for private operators to develop
the capacity to deliver enough registrar services the privatization auction centers have been
operating as temporary registrars. A separate unit has been created within each regional
auction center, with its own staff and equipment, with the central database in Kiev. The units
are subject to supervision by the SPF.
(b) National Depositary System. Following the adoption in 1995 by Parliament of the general
concept, the Government initiated the legislative and institutional measures necessary for
creation of a National Depositary System (NDS). The NDS will cover state securities,
corporate stock, and corporate bonds. The system will likely consist of a single depository for
state securities and a number of privately operated depositaries for corporate securities.
Integration of the system will be achieved by introducing standards for operations and
information flow. An outline of the program has been extensively discussed with the donor
community and the Bank. The first components of the NDS will be operational before release
of the third tranche.
The draft program of the ADS will be discussed with the Bank in mid-1996 and presented in
a form agreeable to the Bank before November 1996. The National Depository will be ready
to begin operations early in 1997.
V. DONOR COORDINATION
General
49.    Over the past two to three years there has been a very close dialogue between the Bank and
the donors supporting privatization, capital markets development and post-privatization enterprise
restructuring assistance in Ukraine. This has been marked by a series of donor meetings in
Washington, London and Kiev and, in February, 1994, by the signature of a joint Memorandum of
Understanding by the major donors and the Government on the future direction of the mass
privatization program and on the external support that could be provided for it. This close
cooperation has continued during the preparation and implementation of the pre-Board action program
of this loan and will continue during loan implementation. The combination of policy analysis and
conditionality from the Bank and grant financed technical assistance from other donors has proven to
be extremely effective in the Ukrainian context. The Program supported by this loan has therefore
been designed in full cooperation with the other major donors, in particular USAID and EU/TACIS,
and has their full support. The latter two donors will continue to provide most of the technical
14



assistance necessary to complete the mass privatization program, to create the necessary capital
markets legislation, institutions and infrastructure and to promote the post-privatization restructuring
and growth that will be the major objective and benefit of the program. The close dialogue that
already exists with the IFC will also be maintained and IFC intends to continue its support for
privatization implementation throughout 1996.
EU/TACIS
50.   The conditions for disbursement of the EU's forthcoming ECU200 million program loan to
Ukraine will be closely linked to the implementation of the policy conditionality of the EDAL.
EU/TACIS has been actively supporting the privatization process in Ukraine since independence.
Early support was for the SPF and for pilot privatization transactions. Since 1994 the programs have
focussed more on mass privatization and more recently on the development of the capital markets. At
present EU/TACIS consultants are helping with the implementation of the MPP auction process in
several oblasts and also with the institutional strengthening of new investment funds. EU/TACIS have
also been instrumental in creating the capacity of the Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization Support
(UCPPS) The Bank has coordinated particularly closely with EU/TACIS on the design of the EDAL's
post-privatization support component. As mass privatization proceeds more EU/TACIS operational
support is planned for the SPF and particularly for the post-privatization assistance programs to be
implemented by the UCPPS. Assistance will also be given to case by case privatization of large
enterprises. Work is also being done by EU/TACIS on the methodology for divestment of social
assets by enterprises.
USAID
51.    USAID continues to finance major costs associated with the mass privatization program,
including printing and distribution of the privatization certificates, the operational costs of the
enterprise auction centers and the public information campaign for privatization in the national and
local media. USAID has also been the major source of finance for IFC's support to the small scale
privatization process in several cities throughout Ukraine. Other USAID initiatives already underway
or soon to be started include support for the development of selected private investment funds and for
the creation of a new self-regulatory organization for market intermediaries, creation and running of a
capital markets monitoring unit, support for US SEC staff from Washington to advise the Government
on creating new capital markets legislation and supervisory bodies and support for creating a share
registry and a clearing and settlement organization.
Other Donors
52.    The Bank and many donors, including EU/TACIS and USAID have provided city and
enterprise level support for privatization and private sector development programs. IFC has been
particularly active in promoting small scale enterprise privatization at city level and also some large
scale pilot privatization transactions. The EBRD was active early in supporting the SPF and is now
considering replicating in Ukraine the Regional Venture Fund concept that been a vehicle for direct
EBRD equity investments in newly privatized enterprises in several Russian cities. Bi-lateral donors
such as Switzerland, Netherlands, UK Know-How Fund and Japan are also actively supporting the
15



privatization process in Ukraine. A Japanese technical assistance grant and a grant from the Irish
Government, both managed by the Bank, have helped in the preparation of the EDAL.
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Background and Rationale for Bank Involvement
53.   This project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine (CAS)
which is being presented for discussion along with this loan to the Executive Directors. The proposed
loan will provide a significant portion of the external balance of payments support necessary to
maintain the Ukrainian economy during the economic transition period while at the same time
supporting through policy conditionality reforms critical to the success of this transition. It will
continue the balance of payments support initiated by the IMF in its Standby Arrangement and
Systemic Transformation Facility and the Bank through its Rehabilitation Loan and disburse in
parallel with funds from the Bank's proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan. The loan design
has built on the successful formula, already demonstrated in the Ukrainian context, of focussed Bank
financed policy conditionality working alongside grant financed technical assistance from other
donors.
Loan Objectives and Description
54.   The main objectives of the proposed EDAL will be to support the Government's trade and
price liberalization, privatization, capital markets development and post-privatization restructuring
programs as outlined in the Memorandum of Enterprise Sector Development Policy (Annex 1). It is
intended, through policy conditionality and technical assistance, to promote and make irreversible the
economic transformation of the enterprise sector from a primarily state owned to a primarily private
ownership structure, to realize the necessary enterprise governance improvements and accelerate the
restructuring and enhance the efficiency of the enterprise sector following privatization. It will
therefore complement the agricultural sector reforms supported by the AGSECAL.
55.   Given the urgent need for balance of payments support most of the policy based balance of
payments support component of the loan is expected to disburse quickly and the completion date of
this component will therefore be December 31, 1997. The technical assistance component is also
intended to disburse quickly given the urgent need for immediate post-privatization enterprise
restructuring assistance and the completion date for this component will therefore be December 31,
1998. The proceeds of the balance of payments support component of the loan will be disbursed
upon evidence that the agreed adjustment measures have been satisfactorily implemented. Non-
eligible imports would comprise only those goods on the World Bank's standard negative list. As
agreed with the Government, disbursements will be made through the NBU and an account of the
Ministry of Finance at the NBU will be credited with the karbovanets equivalent at the market
exchange rate as determined on the interbank exchange market. The foreign exchange receipts of the
loan will be sold by the NBU in the interbank exchange market or will be held in reserve in
accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The Government will therefore receive non-
inflationary budget support. The technical assistance component will be disbursed according to the
standard procurement and disbursement rules of the World Bank.
16



56.    The components of the loan will be:
(a) Balance of Payments Support for Policy Reforms ($300 million). The policy reforms will
include:
(i)   eliminating trade barriers and price restrictions on imports and exports;
(ii)  eliminating domestic price controls;
(iii)  implementation of mass privatization of 5,000 medium and large scale enterprises;
(iv)  completion of the small scale privatization program;
(v)  resolution of several important methodological obstacles to rapid implementation of the
privatization program;
(vi)  extension of the privatization program to include additional large enterprises for case-
by-case privatization;
(vii) creation of a Securities and Stock Markets Commission to oversee and regulate capital
markets;
(viii) creation of self-regulatory organizations for intermediaries in the capital markets;
(ix)  legislation will be in effect governing the operations of:
a. stock exchanges and over-the-counter markets;
b. dealers and brokers;
c. independent registrars and depositories;
d. self-regulatory organizations of market participants; and
e. rules governing investor protection such as disclosure requirements for publicly
traded companies, fraud and market manipulation.
(b) Technical Assistance for Post-Privatization Restructuring ($10 million). This component will
finance necessary technical assistance and equipment to the agencies responsible for
implementing the post privatization restructuring programs. The component will include
turnaround management assistance in the form of consulting advice on restructuring for post-
privatized enterprises, bankruptcy and liquidation pilots, development of professional
organizations and management training
17



Project Implementation and Key Measures for Disbursement
57.   Implementation of the policy reforms began during loan preparation in mid-1995 and
continued during the first half of 1996. The first tranche will be disbursed based on satisfactory
implementation of the pre-Board action program described below. The TA component is expected to
begin in mid-1996. The SPF will be the main implementing agency for the policy reforms but other
agencies will also be involved in implementation of the reform program including the Securities and
Stock Markets Commission.
58.    The following measures were implemented prior to Board presentation of the proposed
loan (these measures constitute the pre-Board action program and conditionality):
(a) Maintaining a Competitive Environment
(i)  imposition of minimum prices for exports was abolished except for fourteen narrowly
defined categories of goods limited to specific actual cases of anti-dumping, products
subject to contingent intergovernmental agreements, live animals, skins and non-ferrous
metal scrap
(ii) a maximum import tariff of 30 percent was maintained
(iii) compulsory import deposits for barter transactions were abolished and no new taxes on
barter imposed
(b) Mass Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises
(i)  the SPF substantially completed the privatization of 2,000 medium/large enterprises (i.e.
transfer of at least 70 percent of the enterprise shares to private hands) since the
beginning of 1995. Of these enterprises over 30 percent were on the original list of
agro-industrial enterprises
(ii)  streamlined procedures and standard preparation packages were developed and
disseminated to enterprises subject to mass privatization
(iii) a network of over 1,000 bid collection sites was developed for the certificate auctions
(iv) steps were taken to begin streamlining the procedures for the privatization of agro-
industrial enterprises, shortening the subscription processes and reducing the total
preparation and processing time to a level comparable to that for enterprises in other
sectors
(v)  an incentive mechanism to allow managers who cooperate in privatization to obtain 10
percent of the shares of enterprises in the mass privatization program on preferential
terms was implemented
18



(vi) procedures were developed for the redemption of index-linked savings certificates in
clearing auctions with no floor prices and implementation of these auctions began
(vii) deadlines were set for the collection (June 30, 1996) and redemption (December 31,
1996) of privatization certificates
(c) Privatization of Small-Scale Enterprises
(i)   Amendments were made to the Methodology of Valuation of Objects for Privatization
revoking the use of potential profitability as a factor in the valuation process
(ii)  there was no reversal of the favorable legal, institutional and methodological framework
which led to the rapid acceleration of small scale privatization during the second half of
1995 and early 1996 and small scale privatization continued at a rapid pace
(d) Capital Markets
(i)  the Government created an independent SSMC, with responsibility for overseeing and
regulating capital markets in Ukraine, and staffed its key departments of legal, licensing,
supervision and corporate finance.
(ii)  a package of draft legislation was prepared governing investor protection, registrars and
depositaries, broker dealers, trading systems and self-regulatory organizations
(iii) a transitional data-base of shareholders of companies privatized through open auctions
(transitional share registries) was created at the Ukrainian Center for Certificate
Auctions
(e) Post-Privatization Restructuring Assistance
(i)  the SPF created a technical assistance coordinating unit to manage the technical
assistance component of the program funded by the loan as well as all other technical
assistance to be administered by the SPF
(ii)  a plan for staffing, training and equipment needs was prepared for the UCPPS and
implementation began
(iii) TORs and shortlists of consultants, budgets and implementation schedules were prepared
and equipment costs and sources determined
19



59.    The following actions will be completed prior to release of the second tranche,
anticipated for November 30, 1996:
(a) Maintaining a Competitive Environment
(i)  there will have been no reversal in the liberalized trade and price regime adopted prior
to Board presentation
(ii)  all export duties will be eliminated
(iii) indicative prices on exports will be eliminated except for goods and services covered by
voluntary export restraints, anti-dumping investigations and international contingent
agreements
(iv) the Special Export Regime will be rescinded
(v)  registration requirements for exports will be abolished except for exports under
voluntary export restraints, anti-dumping investigations and international contingent
agreements
(vi) quality certification of goods at the import stage will be replaced by a system of random
checks at wholesale or retail level
(vii) domestic price controls on all sixteen "artificial" monopolies will be abolished, trade and
profit margin caps will be abolished
(viii) regulation of prices and operations of price inspection units at state and regional levels
will be limited to only those goods or services whose prices are administratively set
(b) Privatization
(i)  the SPF will have completed the privatization 3,500 medium/large enterprises since the
beginning of 1995 (i.e. the enterprises will be at least 70 percent privately owned). Of
these at least 30 percent will have been on the original list of agro-industrial enterprises
(ii)  changes, initiated prior to Board presentation, streamlining the methodology for agro-
industrial privatization, will have been formally enacted
(iii) there will have been no reversal of the favorable legal, institutional and methodological
framework governing small scale privatization which will have continued at the same
rapid pace
(c) Capital Markets
(i)  the transitional database of shareholders will be transferred from the auction centers to
new private independent share registrars where they exist
20



(ii) the package of legislation governing the operation of the capital markets, prepared
before first tranche release, will be enacted
(iii) Government will prepare a time schedule for establishing a National Depositary System
for Shares
60.    The following measures will be implemented prior to release of the third tranche,
anticipated for March 31, 1997:
(a) Privatization
(i)  the SPF will have completed the privatization of 5,000 medium/large enterprises since
the beginning of 1995. (i.e. the shares will be at least 70 percent privately owned). Of
these at least 35 percent will have been on the original list of agro-industrial enterprises
(ii)  the Cabinet of Ministers will approve a list of 10 large monopoly enterprises and initiate
work on the development of plans to privatize these enterprises before the end of 1997
(iii) there will be no reversal of the favorable legal, institutional and methodological
framework governing small scale privatization which will continue at the same rapid
pace
(b) Capital Markets
(i)  self-regulatory organizations for collective investment intermediaries, broker/dealers and
registrars and depositaries will adopt their rules of conduct and membership of
respective SROs will be made compulsory for all licensed market participants
(ii)  the NDS will start operations
Technical Assistance Component for Post-Privatization Enterprise Restructuring
61.    The Need for Post-Privatization Enterprise Assistance. With increasing economic
liberalization and implementation of privatization through the mass privatization program, one of the
most relevant and valuable forms of external assistance will be technical advice and support to
enterprises after privatization and to develop the institutions needed to operate a market economy. The
post-privatization enterprise assistance component of the loan is an integral part of the support for the
mass privatization process, and its introduction, just as privatization is gaining momentum, is timely.
62.    Type of Assistance to be Provided to Enterprises. The total estimated cost for this component
is US$10 million. Detailed terms of reference for the advisors to be financed under the component
are on file. Annex 7 gives a schematic description of the component with procurement details. In
complement to other donor support (primarily from USAID and EU (TACIS)) the TA component
focuses on three areas. The first area is support for enterprise restructuring, where the Government
will support at least 15 enterprises with operational restructuring help. The overall objectives are to
develop demonstration cases, to prepare case studies for management training, to support the
21



development of local consulting services, to stimulate enterprise demand for technical assistance, to
test various models for restructuring and cost recovery, to identify bottlenecks to liquidation, and also
to assist a limited number of individual enterprises. There will be four different approaches to
restructuring at an estimated cost of US$5.8 million.
(a) Low-Cost Change Management Assistance (CMA). This effort would provide low-cost
restructuring advice to enterprise managers over 1.5 to 2 years. The effort would be led by a
senior consultant (e.g., a retired executive) who would be responsible for recruiting (from a
pre-qualified pool) specialists for specific tasks. Deliverables would include diagnostic
analysis, financial audit, management training, social and environmental reviews, study tours,
short-term action plan. implementation of action plan, and provision of case study material.
Participating enterprises would co-finance the cash costs and provide local accommodation.
Estimated total cost - US$1.2 million for 4-5 restructuring cases.
(b) TA Fund. The Government would create a fund for TA financing and recruit investment
managers to operate a specialized investment agency. The managers would identify privatized
enterprises interested in attracting core investors, local or international. These enterprises
should need operational restructuring to be able to attract investors and should be willing to
borrow for, and to use, consultants to implement restructuring. The enterprises should also be
willing to pay a success fee to the managers for finding investors. Once identified and an
appropriate program established, the enterprise would borrow from the TA fund, restructure
under the supervision of the managers, and once an investor has been successfully identified,
fully repay the TA fund and pay a fee to the managers. Alternatively, or as a complement,
once a larger corps of venture capital firms has emerged, the Government could create a fund
for TA financing from which venture capital firms could apply for TA financing for
operational restructuring from the fund (subject to a cap of US$500,000), to be repaid in full.
The venture capital firms would then implement restructuring of enterprises in which they
have significant ownership subject to pre-determined deliverables including adequate reporting
to the Government and provision of case study material. Estimated cost US$2.75 million for
the fund and investment management group for two years and at least 10 restructuring cases.
(c) Intensive Demonstration Case. A large, potentially viable, and socially important enterprise
would be restructured using top quality management consultants. The consultants would
deliver both case study material and a plan for how to demonstrate the potential value of
restructuring to other enterprises. Estimated total cost US$900,000 plus enterprise co-
payment of at least 10 percent.
(d) Liquidation and Bankruptcy Pilots. Two state-owned enterprises suitable for liquidation
would be taken through the process of bankruptcy liquidation by one group of consultants.
Preferably, one pilot would result in an out-of-court settlement, whereas the other pilot would
result in settling the liquidation through a court ruling. During the process, consultants would
identify legal and other obstacles and suggest improvements, develop streamlined processes
for both methods of liquidation, and provide case study material. The Agency for Bankruptcy
and Liquidation would provide staff members to participate in the consulting team. The
consultants would also provide for 1-2 months internship for 2 Agency staff members at
similar agencies in Eastern Europe. Estimated total cost US$950,000.
22



63.   The second area of support is the development of critical functions necessary in a market
economy including catalyzing professional associations, establishing a commercially oriented business
database on private enterprises, and developing a management training program based on Ukrainian
case studies (derived from the restructuring cases above). The overall objectives are to stimulate the
development and quality of various professions (e.g. corporate lawyers, accountants, management
consultants), make available critical business intelligence on private companies for investors and
enterprises, and stimulate the development of enterprise managers through an intensive short training
program based on Ukrainian experiences. Total estimated cost for this sub-component is US$2.35
million.
(a) Development of Professional Associations. The Government would provide a consultant and
some operating resources for organizational development and professional seminars to each of
approximately 10 existing or possibly new professional associations. The Government would
finance the startup or further development of these associations, and also use the roster of
members to be developed as its longlist for consulting contracts. In exchange, the association
would try to recruit and register all qualified local professionals, develop professional
standards, and provide unofficial certifications of professional competence. Total estimated
cost is US$950,000 over 3 years.
(b) Commercial Private Company Database. The ultimate objective is to establish a separate fully
commercial company in joint venture with an established business intelligence company. The
company would potentially be quite profitable and Government's interest should eventually be
fully divested. The approach would be to develop a database initially using data from the
SPF gathered during the privatization process, including contractual arrangements with SPF.
In parallel, consultants would help develop a business plan, set up a skeleton company, and
develop and implement an approach to attract potential joint venture partners. The joint
venture partner would contribute the systems, management, and working capital to operate the
company. The Government would provide both an existing database and facilities for further
data generation. Total estimated cost US$450,000.
(c) Management Training Based on Ukrainian Case Studies. High quality academics would be
recruited to develop case study material (preferably multimedia including plant visits and
sessions with enterprise management), based on the restructuring cases described above. The
consultants would build a 2-3 week training curriculum around the case material, and develop
and implement a plan to deliver the training to managers, preferably through an existing local
training institute. Total estimated cost US$950,000.
64.   The third area of support is the strengthening of Government organizations for privatization
and post privatization support. This sub-component would provide a limited amount to support the
SPF and the newly established Ukraine Center for Post Privatization Support (UCPPS). The SPF is
responsible for implementation of mass privatization and management of this $10 million TA
component, whereas UCPPS has been established by SPF with assistance from EU/TACIS as a non-
profit non-government organization to support privatized enterprises. Both organizations need further
assistance on internal organization and systems and there is also a need for a system of data
generation and transfer to the private company database, described above. The total estimated cost
for this sub-component is US$ 1.85 million.
23



(a) SPF Organizational Needs. One potential area of activity in the near future for SPF would
be to finalize the privatization of the (approximately 50) most important companies, in which
the Government would not follow the standard mass privatization procedures. To prepare for
these case-by-case transactions, SPF would benefit from building up the required skills,
processes, documentation, and contacts with investment banks to implement the transactions in
a high quality manner. This sub-component would also help identify in advance regulatory
needs, competition issues, potential restructuring efforts required, and other issues that may
delay privatization. For this purpose, SPF would employ one or two international experts to
provide this advice for 1-2 years, supported by 1-2 Ukrainian professionals to be trained to
administer later the implementation of the transactions.
Another area of support would be to provide advisors to the SPF. This would include the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the TA component of the loan. The
role of the PIU is described in more detail in the next section. These areas are also being
supported both by the Bank's Institution Building Loan and by EU/TACIS, and the TA
component would only provide assistance in addition to and as a complement to these efforts.
The estimated total cost of the three areas of support to the SPF is US$1.2 million.
(b) UCPPS Organizational Needs. The newly established organization needs equipment, key staff
(e.g., lawyer, accountant, experienced procurement specialist) and staff training. It also needs
internal processes and systems for selection of enterprise restructuring candidates and for
procurement of consultants. UCPPS would employ consultants and strengthen its staff to help
develop and arrange for training and recruitment, to identify and procure critical equipment,
develop branch offices, develop internal procedures, and manage the implementation of the
post-privatization components (except for support to SPF). In addition it may be necessary to
ensure the transfer of data from SPF to UCPPS. The objective would be to ensure that the
commercial database being created has automatic access to all relevant data on enterprises that
have been processed through the mass privatization program. This will include systems,
hardware, procedures and staff needs for the next two years. A consultant will be recruited to
design and implement the system, linking it to SPF's databases and the database company. If
not needed this amount could be reallocated to the strengthening of the UCPPS. EU/TACIS
will continue to provide support to UCPPS, and the objective is to complement and to fill
gaps not covered by the EU program. The cost for the data transfer sub-component is
estimated at US$150,000 and for the entire component, US$ 650,000.
65.   Selection of Enterprises for the Post-Privatization Assistance Component. The Government
will select enterprises for this assistance. The principle will be to attract at least 10 enterprises for
each restructuring effort. The enterprises would provide a simple description of the company
following the criteria below. A technical selection committee would screen the longlist for the best
candidates, and invite them to provide more in-depth information. Based on the additional
information, the committee would establish a shortlist of the most promising candidates, after which
the consultant responsible for implementing the restructuring will then suggest the final candidate,
subject to Government approval. The criteria for selection would in general be (to be specified for
each project):
24



(a) The Enterprise Must be Private. This is defined as non-governmental ownership of at least 70
percent of the shareholding. Enterprises demonstrably in the later stages of being processed
for privatization and whose shares are projected to be in great demand could be considered, in
which case the restructuring effort would include finalization of privatization.
(b) Management Commitment. This is a critical criterion since without committed management
supported by the shareholders, restructuring has no prospect of succeeding. It is a subjective
criterion, and the final judgment will be made by the Government based on advice from the
consultants. Possible indicators, however, include management's willingness to co-finance the
restructuring effort, progressive actions already taken to restructure and downsize, statements
of intent, and willingness to work with foreign and local consultants.
(c) Potential Viability. The enterprise should have the clear possibility of developing a positive
cash flow within the near future. Management should be able to put forward a simple pro
forma income statement indicating its potential improvements over the next five years, with
explicit assumptions.
(d) Financial Liabilities and Investment Needs. If the company is heavily burdened with
commercial liabilities and/or has substantial critical investment needs, such that even a
successful operational restructuring would not be able to ensure viability, the company would
only be considered if liquidation is acceptable to management and shareholders.
Loan Administration for Investment Component (Technical Assistance)
66.   Administration of the TA component will be the responsibility of a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) within the SPF. The PIU will be staffed by a local manager, an international procurement
specialist, a local accountant and a local lawyer. The terms of reference of the staff of the PIU were
agreed with the Bank and the PIU was established prior to Board presentation. The TA component of
the EDAL will include US$200,000 to finance salaries of the members of the PIU and basic office
equipment for the PIU. The training and experience received by members of the PIU in implementing
this TA component is expected to facilitate the implementation of future projects financed by the Bank
and other donors. In the second half of 1997 the PIU will prepare a mid-term report on progress in
the TA component and this report will serve as the basis of a mid-term review to be carried out
jointly with the Bank before the end of 1997.
67.    The PIU will be assisted extensively by the Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization Support
(UCPPS). The UCPPS was established recently with support from EU/TACIS and is developing
excellent skills in procurement and consulting services. In January 1996 staff from UCPPS attended a
one week Bank procurement workshop conducted by international procurement specialists. The
responsibilities of the UCPPS and the SPF regarding the implementation of the TA component will be
outlined in detail in a legal agreement between both organizations and this agreement will be signed
before the TA component becomes effective. A memorandum of understanding outlining the
principles of this agreement has already been signed. Supervision of external consultants is likely to
play an important role in developing the consulting capacity of UCPPS staff.
25



68.   The UCPPS will, among other things be responsible for preparing and submitting for
approval to the PIU all documents concerning the selection of consultants and equipment and requests
for clearances from the Bank. The UCPPS will also maintain direct contact with the Bank and
supervise consultant activities and prepare and submit to the PIU reports on consultants' activities.
The PIU will be responsible for the overall implementation of the TA component. It will, among
other things, report directly to the Chairman of the SPF and the Bank, approve the selections of
consultants and equipment and the requests for clearances proposed by the UCPPS, submit documents
for clearance to the Bank, manage the UCPPS "by exception", provide advice to UCPPS, maintain
project accounts, verify payments due under project contracts and fulfill all other responsibilities
outlined in the Funds Transfer Agreement between the MOF and the PIU.
Loan Administration for Adjustment Component
69.   Administration of the adjustment component will be the responsibility of a Monitoring Unit
(MU) located in the Ministry of Economy and it will report through the Chief of the Division for
Collaboration with International Financial Institutions in the Cabinet of Ministers to the Deputy Prime
Minister for Economics. The terms of reference have been agreed with the Bank and the MU has
been established. The MU's main responsibility will be to monitor implementation of the adjustment
component and provide progress reports to the Government and the Bank every three months after
Board approval. The progress reports will contain an evaluation of the progress made on the policy
reform program and will indicate progress made towards fulfilling tranche release conditions. These
reports will be sent to the Bank every three months in English. The MU will also prepare Ukraine's
contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
Procurement under Investment Component (Technical Assistance)
70.   Procurement will be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement, dated
January, 1995. A Country Procurement Strategy Note is expected to be completed in FY97.
71.   Procurement of Goods. The TA component will finance expenditures related to the purchase
of equipment i.e. furniture, computers, software, telecommnunications and general office equipment.
Only a relatively small amount (US$1 million) of the TA component will be used to purchase
equipment such as office equipment for a database of privatized enterprises, for the UCPPS, for the
SPF and for enhancing data transfer from SPF to UCPPS.
72.   This equipment will be procured by national shopping for the contracts under US$50,000 and
by international shopping for contracts between US$50,000 and US$300,000. Equipment would not
be purchased in lots greater than US$300,000. The procurement of goods through shopping (national
or international) will occur in accordance with Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. The first two contracts under international shopping and national shopping and any
contract of more than $300,000 will be subject to prior Bank review. All other contracts will be
subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank.
26



73.   Procurement of Technical Assistance Services. All sub-components of the TA component will
require consultant services either local or international or a combination of both, requiring several
different contracts, a number of them for small amounts. The procurement of services will be
according to the Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants (August 1981). A General Procurement
Notice will be issued in June, 1996.
74.   Contracts for consulting services of more than US$50,000 in the case of individuals and more
than US$100,000 in case of companies will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Review by the
Bank of the terms of reference would be carried out for all procurement of consultant services. It is
expected that almost all the technical assistance packages will be procured on the basis of short-
listing. In cases of small individual consultant short term assignments contracts, the packages will be
procured through individual contracts. The results of consulting assignments, particularly plans of
action for subsequent stages of project implementation would be submitted to the Bank for review.
Table 1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
TA component        ICB    LCB   Other  Not Bank              Total
Financed
Equipment                          1I 1
Services                          92                          9
Equipment will be procured by international or national shopping.
2 Services will be procured according to the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants (August
1981).
Procurement under Adjustment Component
75.     In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the Simplification of
Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans the proposed EDAL
proceeds will now be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program,
including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions and achievement of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases: hence,
evidence will not be needed to support disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be needed.
The standard negative list will be applied.
Disbursement of Investment Component (Technical Assistance)
76.   Disbursements would be administered by the PIU within the SPF. To facilitate project
implementation, the SPF would establish a Special Account in one of the major foreign commercial
banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures.
The authorized allocation would be US$1 million. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn,
27



whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard
Bank procedure as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the
Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment
requests.
77.   The proceeds of the TA component of the loan would finance 100 percent of consultants'
services, 100 percent of foreign expenditures for office equipment, 100 percent of local expenditures
ex-factory and 75 percent of other local expenditures for items produced locally. Expenditures for
individual contracts would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures for contracts below
US$50,000 and expenditures for consultancy firms for contracts below US$100,000. All
disbursements above the thresholds would be made against fully documented withdrawal applications.
The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by the SPF for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and the Bank upon request.
The minimum size of withdrawal application for withdrawals directly from the loan account or
issuance of the Special Commitments is 20 percent of the amount of authorized allocation to the
Special Account, or US$20,000.
78.   The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998. The proposed closing date is
December 31, 1999.
Disbursement of Adjustment Component
79.   The Government of Ukraine will open and maintain an account at the National Bank of
Ukraine upon Bank notification of the release of each tranche. Proceeds of the loan will be deposited
by the Bank in this account at the request of the Government of Ukraine by the submission of a
simplified withdrawal application. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used
for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items imported from a non-member country, or goods or
services on the standard negative list), the Bank will require the Government of Ukraine either to (a)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes or (b) refund the amount directly to the
Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
Reporting and Auditing
80.   The project manager will be located in the Ministry of Finance and would have different
responsibilities for each component of the EDAL. For the adjustment component, the Project
Manager will be responsible for submitting to the Bank the simplified Application for Withdrawal
form upon receiving clearance from the MU and the Bank that all conditions have been met for a
tranche release, and the Project Manager will maintain the project accounts. Although the Bank will
not routinely require an audit of the Deposit Account it reserves the right to require an independent
audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank. For the investment component the Project Manager is
responsible for maintaining the project accounts. Qualifications and terms of reference of a Project
Manager acceptable to the Bank were agreed before Negotiations.
28



81.   The Government has recently established an interministerial steering committee consisting of
ministers and deputy prime ministers. This committee meets monthly to monitor the use of foreign
credit. It is not expected that this committee will influence the implementation of the EDAL.
Project Sustainability
82.   The main objectives of the loan are to accelerate the irreversible transformation in the
ownership structure and management of Ukrainian enterprises, to accelerate the development of the
private sector in Ukraine and to create capital markets infrastructure that will serve Ukraine
indefinitely in the future. By definition these objectives are to bring about sustainable change.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
83.   The experience of the Rehabilitation Loan, as well as the preparation process for this loan
(EDAL), has shown that well designed policy conditionality in the area of privatization can bring
about dramatic reforms that were previously unobtainable, particularly when acting closely alongside
grant financed technical assistance from other donors. Very close cooperation is being and will
continue to be maintained with the other donors during loan preparation and execution, especially
with respect to planned TA activities. The major donors have participated, along with Government,
in the design of the project and have expressed their strong support for it. Also previous experience
as well as experience gained during the preparation of this loan have shown that project preparation is
a valuable opportunity to deliver hands on assistance to Government authorities in defining and
dealing with operational issues in both design and implementation. Experience has also shown that
Ukraine is unlikely to wish to borrow large amounts for TA and is likely to be able to mobilize
substantial grant funds for this purpose. For this reason the TA component is small and limited to
critical areas not financed by other donors.
Environmental Aspects
84.   The loan will have no direct environmental impact.
Program Objective Categories
85.   The proposed project supports the Bank's program objectives of development of a policy
framework conducive to fiscal and macroeconomic stability, and to private sector development.
Benefits and Risks
86.   Benefits. The implementation of the reform program would represent major progress in
removing the structural deficiencies and inefficient activities of the gigantic state enterprise sector
inherited from the Soviet era. It would help bring the dynamic informal sector into the economic
mainstream and move Ukraine substantially and irreversibly through the transition to a market
economy. It would provide a basis for well-functioning capital markets and a critical mass of private
enterprises that will be a main driving force for economic recovery. Given Ukraine's human and
physical potential the economic benefits to be obtained from these reforms could be enormous. The
29



loan would also provide critical balance of payments support to finance imports needed for economic
recovery. The channeling of the loan funds would support the new foreign exchange markets in
Ukraine.
87.   Risks. The most important risk is the possibility of loss of policy commitment due to lack of
consensus and possible growing opposition among key constituencies. Further trade and price
liberalization and the privatization and restructuring of the enterprise sector will strike at the heart of
the old order and of the structural problems of the economy. Entrenched interests will be challenged.
The changes, although necessary and very urgent, could be painful to certain sections of the
population, particularly in those areas where large enterprise closures could occur. This risk of
policy reversal will be higher if lost employment opportunities are not quickly replaced by new ones.
The relationship between Parliament and Government is an uneasy one and Parliament has on several
occasions declared itself openly hostile to mass privatization and market reforms in general. The
most important factor mitigating the risk of loss of political commitment is the likelihood, based on
the experience of other countries, that once market reforms have taken hold and a critical mass of
enterprises has passed through the privatization process the reform process will be seen to benefit the
population, gather momentum and be difficult to reverse.
88.    Another important risk is that the SPF and other agencies responsible for implementing the
program will not have the capacity to do so. Few countries in history have attempted to implement
such an ambitious program and there is no experience in Ukraine and little anywhere else in doing so
successfully. This risk has been taken into account in the program design by simplifying it and
maximizing bottom up incentives and initiatives, capitalizing on the dynamics that already exist within
the enterprise sector. The use of external technical assistance has also been planned to help in key
implementation areas and relieve bottlenecks such as running the auction centers, drafting of laws and
procedures and setting up capital markets institutions.
89.   The third risk is that the benefits of the program may not appear immediately, that economic
recovery may be delayed and that donor commitment may start to wane. This would make the
inevitable adjustment process in Ukraine even more painful. The Bank will continue to attempt to
reduce this risk through its donor coordination activities.
Recommendation
90.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, DC
June 3, 1996
30



ANNEX 1
May 28, 1996
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Dear Mr. President:
According to arrangements between the Government of Ukraine and the World Bank on strategies
for helping Ukraine, and as a result of the negotiations held, we are hereby transmitting to you our
Memorandum on Enterprise Sector Development Policy.
The Memorandum outlines the Government's action program aimed at ensuring the creation and
maintaining of a competitive environment, the rapid and effective privatization of enterprises and creation
in the near future of a viable legislative base and infrastructure for the capital markets. Government is
also taking steps to maintain a stable macro-economic environment, consistent with the need for economic
growth, since this will be an important pre-condition for successful implementation of the economic
reform program.
The Government of Ukraine applies to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
to support the above mentioned program, which has already begun, with an Enterprise Development
Adjustment Loan in an amount equivalent to US$310 million.
Sincerely yours,
Roman Shpek
Deputy Prime Minister
31



ANNEX 1
UKRAINE: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Memorandum on Enterprise Sector Development Policy
In October, 1994, Ukraine began a radical and comprehensive economic reform program which
includes the promotion of the private sector as the main engine of market led growth. A first and
important step in achieving this will be the privatization of the very large existing state enterprise
sector which was inherited from the centrally planned economy of the Soviet Union. Also for these
enterprises to operate effectively it will be necessary to maintain a competitive environment. A next
important step will be to encourage the restructuring of these newly privatized enterprises.
Experience in other countries that have implemented mass privatization programs has shown that
capital markets should also be developed concurrently with implementation of mass privatization to
allow the millions of new shareholders to trade their shares, to facilitate ownership restructuring and
to promote the mobilization of new equity investment in the enterprise sector.
In this memorandum we outline in detail the steps we already have taken and propose to take to
ensure that a competitive environment has been created and will be maintained, that enterprise
privatization is implemented rapidly and effectively and that a well-functioning capital markets
regulatory framework and infrastructure is created rapidly. As an essential underpinning of these
actions we intend to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment conducive to economic growth.
Maintaining a Competitive Environment
For the emerging private sector to contribute to economic recovery, a strong competitive framework
needs to be in place. Through such early measures as trade liberalization and the deregulation of most
prices, Ukraine's reform program has limited the direct role of the state in the economy, and has
gone far in establishing competitive markets. However, competitive pressures still need to be
increased further.
The external trade regime is a crucial element of introducing competition in the economy, and much
has been accomplished in this area since the October 1994 reforms were launched. Ukraine has
unified its exchange rate and established convertibility for most current account transactions. The
Government has also liberalized the trade regime by eliminating quotas and licenses. Other export
restrictions have also been lifted, including export registration requirements (except for goods subject
to international contingent agreements, Voluntary Export Restraints, anti-dumping investigations,
goods covered by the Special Export Regime and livestock, skins and ferrous metal scrap). Indicative
prices on exports have been abolished except in cases where anti-dumping charges have been brought
and in the case of voluntary export restraints and livestock, skins and ferrous metal scrap. By end-
1996, it is planned to rescind the Special Export Regime and all remaining export registration
requirements will also have been eliminated except for international contingent agreements,
registration of export agreements under VERs and actual anti-dumping investigations. No barriers to
exports will remain in place. On the import side, Ukraine has established a relatively liberal trade
32



ANNEX 1
regime. The trade-weighted average tariff is approximately 6 percent, and since January 1995 very
few import duties above 30 percent have been introduced. No quantitative restrictions are in place.
There is licensing for some chemical and pharmaceutical products for health and environmental
protection purposes. By the end of 1996 quality certification will no longer take place at the import
stage: it will be applied equally to imported and domestically produced goods by random checks at
the wholesale or retail levels irrespective of origin. The Government is committed to maintaining this
liberal trade regime: no new barriers to exports or imports will be introduced.
On the domestic front, the Government has gone far in liberalizing domestic prices and removing
administered controls in the economy. Adjustments in energy prices over the last year to
world-equivalent levels have brought prices several times higher for industrial consumers. Phased
reductions in subsidies for housing, communal services, energy and local transport are being
implemented. Cost recovery from the population for these goods and services was raised to at least
60 percent in January 1996 and will be raised to 80 percent in mid-1996. The system of state orders
has been abolished at the national level, and state purchases, based on competitively established
contractual obligations, are now confined to the needs of budgetary organizations. The majority of
ceilings on trade mark-ups as well as profit margin restrictions have been eliminated. The remaining
restrictions on profit and trade margins in the grain and bread products sectors have-also recently
been removed. Moreover the number of broadly defined categories of "artificial monopoly" goods
for which price changes must be declared (approved) in advance has recently been reduced from 16
to 9. Phased demonopolization will take place during 1996 and price regulation of "artificial
monopolies" will be eliminated by end-1996. At the beginning of 1997 the Price Inspection Units
will accordingly be limited to monitoring a small number of goods and services typically produced by
the public sector. Further strengthening of the competitive environment will continue in 1997 and
beyond.
Privatization
Presidential Decree No. 699 of November, 1994 radically streamlined the procedures for mass
privatization in Ukraine. It mandated that 8,000 medium and large enterprises would be privatized.
It gave a full mandate to the SPF to implement this program, taking branch ministries out of the
privatization process. It created a single simplified privatization process. It provided for simplified
standard enterprise preparation packages to be completed by each enterprise according to tight
deadlines, mandated that book value and most recent inventory should be taken as the valuation of the
enterprise, provided for standard allocation of blocks of shares to the auction process and provided
for a simple bidding system.
A widespread public information program was initiated in early 1995 and an auction center network
was created throughout Ukraine. Enterprise auctions started in January, 1995 and the numbers of
enterprise shares put up for auction was gradually increased from month to month. Last year the
Cabinet of Ministers approved a full list of the 8,000 enterprises to be privatized. In compliance with
Presidential decree number 19 of March 19, 1996 "On Objectives and Peculiarities of State-Owned
Property Privatization in 1996" important changes have been made in the process of privatization of
state-owned enterprises. In particular (i) deadlines for the receipt (June 1, 1996) and full utilization
(December 31, 1996) of privatization property certificates by the Ukrainian population were set; (ii)
33



ANNEX 1
additional incentives were granted for those enterprise managers who follow the required procedures
and deadlines in the form of an additional 5 percent of shares on preferential terms; and (iii)
permission was granted to delay the mandatory audit of enterprises undergoing privatization until the
share allocation has been completed, thereby removing the delays in privatization because of audit
requirements.
In April, 1996 the State Property Fund issued an order to amend the share allocation plans of
previously corporatized enterprises to comply with the existing methodology. Standard enterprise
preparation documents have been prepared, approved and disseminated to all enterprises under
preparation for privatization and measures have been taken to improve the transparency of the auction
process by providing buyers access to the share allocation plans and by disseminating auction results
not later than three weeks after the completion of the auctions.
As of April 22, 1996 70 percent of the shares of 1663 medium/large enterprises had been transferred
to private hands since January, 1995 and of these enterprises 34.1 percent are enterprises of the agro-
industrial complex. By June 15, 1996 at least 70 percent of the shares in 2,000 enterprises will have
been transferred to private hands. Of these at least 30 percent will be agro-industrial enterprises.
In 1996 the Government introduced compensation certificates, which were distributed to all citizens
who had deposits in the Savings Bank and insurance policies in the State Insurance Company dating
from January 1, 1992, indexing the value of these deposits by 2,200 times. These certificates are
being traded for shares in the privatization auctions. A mechanism has been introduced to ensure
market clearing at the compensation certificate auctions so that all shares auctioned are sold. By
December, 1996 the Government plans to have transferred 70 percent of the shares of 3,500 medium
and large enterprises to private hands since January, 1995. Of these at least 30 percent will be agro-
industrial enterprises. The Government's intention is to transfer to private hands at least 70 percent of
the shares in a total of at least 5,000 medium/large enterprises by early 1997 since January, 1995, at
least 35 percent of which will be agro-industrial enterprises. The remaining 3,000 enterprises on the
8,000 list will be privatized by early 1998 and it is planned to extend the mass privatization process
to additional enterprises. In addition the Government will identify, before early 1997, ten large
monopoly enterprises and will complete their privatization by early 1998.
45 percent of the enterprises subject to mass privatization are agro-industrial enterprises. Under
current legislation the process for their privatization can take up to a year and a half. The President
of Ukraine has three times vetoed a Law proposed by Parliament which would have had an additional
serious negative impact on the speed and effectiveness of the privatization of these enterprises.
Within the existing legal framework, however, steps have been taken to speed up the privatization of
these enterprises and the results show that these steps are working. The Chairman of the State
Property Fund issued a formal instruction to SPF officials at the SPF Collegium on March 26, 1996
to make the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises a top priority.
To accelerate the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises further the Government intends to
implement a methodology applicable to these enterprises similar to that which applies to medium and
large enterprises in other sectors. This methodology will (i) shorten the corporatization and
subscription period; (ii) ensure that no privatization transactions for these enterprises will be
34



ANNEX 1
retroactively reversed; and (iii) ensure that any shares in these enterprises transferred to primary
producers of agricultural raw materials are transferred to physical persons and not to any collective
structure.
Small scale privatization is a much more decentralized process than that for medium and large
enterprises and depends much more on the degree of support from local administrative bodies.
However the Government is strongly committed to maintaining the accelerated rate of small scale
privatization and during 1995 modified the procedures to achieve this. Important changes included a
two month extension of the period granted to lease holders to buy out their enterprises at book value
and allowing all employee buy-outs to take place at book value. Small scale privatization has been
proceeding at the rapid rate of about 1,500 enterprises per month. Government's intention is to
maintain the current favorable policy and methodological framework for small scale privatization and
to complete the process in Ukraine by the end of 1996.
Capital Markets Development
In mid-1995 the capital markets trading infrastructure and regulatory framework in Ukraine was only
rudimentary in comparison with the large number of enterprise shares that were already in private
hands and available for trading, the growing number of shares being issued every week as a result of
the mass privatization program and the growing number of investment companies and other market
players who had become active. The Government is strongly aware of the need for efficient, well
regulated capital markets as a means of enabling enterprise ownership changes promoting
restructuring and better governance in the period following mass privatization as well as in mobilizing
new equity investments. Furthermore it is necessary to protect Ukrainian and foreign investors in
Ukraine from capital markets frauds.
The Government took pioneering action during 1995 to begin building an adequate legal and
institutional structure for capital markets operation and supervision in Ukraine. Preparatory work was
completed and then a Presidential decree created a Securities and Stock Market Commission (SSMC)
which will soon be regulating the activities of the capital markets in Ukraine. The SSMC was staffed
and has now begun operations.
In late 1995 and early 1996 Presidential decrees were issued transferring responsibility to the SSMC
for the regulation of investment funds and companies and of registrars and depositaries. During the
first half of 1996 we prepared draft normative acts governing investor protection and the operations
of registrars depositaries and ci odians, broker/dealers, trading systems and self-regulatory
organizations. These drafts will be enacted before the end of 1996. Temporary share registry units
are already operating at each of the regional auction centers. A network of private, independent
registrars will begin to take over during the second half of 1996. The number of independent
registrars which comply with the Securities and Stock Markets Commission Regulation on Registrars
of Securities has been increasing. The temporary databases of shareholders currently at the auction
centers will be transferred to independent registrars. A plan for the creation of a depositary system
for securities is being prepared and the depositary will begin operations during 1997.
35



ANNEX I
In the second half of 1996 the legal framework will be complete for self regulatory organizations
(SROs) for capital markets participants along the lines of SROs which exist in developed market
economies. These organizations will have strict codes of conduct for members and by early 1997
membership of these SROs will be compulsory for all market participants.
36



ANNEX 2
IUKRAINE: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policy Matrix
AREA/               I    STATUS AND MEASURES TAKEN                    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY SECOND                 MEASURES TO llE TAKEN BY THD
OBJECTIVES                   BEE)RE BOARD PRESENTAITON                                 TRANCHE                          TRANCHE (estinated MARCH 31,1997)
(estimatd NOVEMBER 30, 1996)
1. MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
To create a stable macroeconomic     Satisfactory progress on the implementation  Satisfactory implementation of the stabilization  Satisfactory implementation of the
environment conducive to economic    of the standby arrangement with the IMF.    program.                                        stabilization program.
growth.
11. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
A. External Trade Liberalization
To promote exports, vital for output  A draft law to eliminate the Special Export  Continued liberalization of the external trade  Ensure that there is no reversal of the trade
recovery, and to foster competitive  Regime was submitted to Parliament in April    regime as evidenced by:                      liberalization measures implemented under
markets through import competition.  1995.                                                                                       the Rehabilitation Loan and under the first
- rescinding the Special Export Regime         and second tranches of the EDAL.
Preferential tax treatment of barter has been  - ensuring that no new barriers to exports are
eliminated.                                 introduced
Export quotas and licenses have been        - eliminating all export duties
eliminated but a recent Law has imposed
export duties on live animals and skins and  - eliminating export registration requirements and
the Government continues to impose a system  indicative prices on exports with the exception of
of 'indicative' export prices, which, although    those exports subject to international contingent
substantially reduced in number, are de facto  agreements and voluntary export restraints as
mandatory. A Presidential decree was issued  well as those under actual anti-dumping
in late February, 1996 limiting the impositio,n    investigations
of minimum prices to certain categories. A
list of 14 narrowly defined categories of
exports subject to indictative prices was
published on May 8, 1996. Besides goods
subject to anti-dumping cases in Ukraine,
VERs and international contingent
agreements, this list includes livestock, skins
and ferrous metal scrap. In addition some
goods, although reduced in number, are also
still subject to export registration.



ANNEX 2
AREA/                      STATUS AND MEASURES TAKEN                  MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY SECOND                 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THIRD
OBJECTIVES                    BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION                                 TRANCHE                         TRANCHE (estimated MARCH 31, 1997)
(estimated NOVEMBER 30, 1996)
QRs on imports have been removed, with a    - ensuring equal treatment of imported and
few exceptions, primarily for health and    domestically produced goods with respect to the
safety reasons. However, the existing       same standards, by abolishing the requirement
practice of goods requiring quality         for certification at the import level and
certification and compliance with Ukrainian  substituting instead with random checks of
standards is applied at the import stage which  affected goods at the wholesale or retail levels
causes importers difficulties. The          irrespective of their origin
Government maintains a fairly liberal import
tariff regime. The trade-weighted average
tariff is below 6%. The maximum import
duty is 30% with exceptions of higher duty
rates accounting for 0.03% of imports in
1995.
B. Price Liberalization
To liberalize all prices except for a  Government has abolished the majority of  Continued liberalization of price regime as     Ensure that there is no reversal in the price
w     few natural monopolies. Regulated    state interventions in price setting, including  evidenced by:                              liberalization measures implemented under
oo    prices to be set so as to fully recover  direct price controls, and most ceilings on                                             the Rehabilitation Loan and under the first
the cost of providing the good or   profit margins.                                                                              and second tranches of the EDAL.
service.
Prices remain regulated for public utilities,  - abolishing price regulation on all remaining
public transport, rents, and for categories of  artificial monopolies
goods produced by 'artificial monopolies".
Producers of goods and services in the
"artificial monopoly" category must notify
MOE authorities of all price changes.
Recently, the number of categories of goods
produced by artificial monopolies that are
subject to price regulation has been reduced
from 16 to 9. Moreover, the remaining
restrictions on profit and trade margins on
grain and bread products were removed in
May 1996.



ANNEX 2
AREA/                      STATUS AND MEASURES TAKEN                   MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY SECOND                  MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THIRD
OBJECIIVES                    BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION                                  TRANCHE                         TRANCHE (estimated MARCH 31, 1997)
(estimated NOVEMBER 30, 1996)
Oblasts have no legal authority to regulate  - penalizing any discretion at the local level to
prices of additional 'artificial' monopolies,  impose price controls
although in practice some may try to do this
for limited periods of time.                 - the function of the Price Inspection Units at the
state and regional levels will accordingly be
There is a separate Price Inspection Unit   limited to monitoring a small number of goods
reporting directly to the MOE, with          and services typically produced by the public
corresponding staff at the regional level    sector
charged with enforcing price controls. De
facto, regional staff appears to spend most of
its time monitoring costs at communal service
enterprises.
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF ENTERPRISE PRIVATEZATION PROGRAM
A. Mass Privatization
Implementation of streamlined        The Cabinet of Ministers approved two lists
w     procedures for mass privatization of  of a total of 8000 medium and large-scale
SOEs via certificate auctions as laid  enterprises to be privatized through certificate
out in President's Decree No. 699 of  auctions.
November 1994.
The State Property Fund developed standard
enterprise preparation documents and
disseminated them to enterprises. Pre-
existing share allocation plans for already
corporatized enterprises were revised in order
to bring them into line with new standard
documents and to ensure that all shares
remaining after privileged sale to workers
will be offered for auction.



ANNEX 2
AREA1                      STATUS AND MEASURES TAKEN                  MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY SECOND                 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THIRD
OBIECTIVES                   BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION                                 TRANCHE                         TRANCHE (estimnated MARCH 31, 1997)
(estimated NOVEMBER 30, 1996)
Completion of infrastructure and    The network of over 1,000 bidding centers
refinements in the implementation    was completed thereby ensuring access to all
procedures for mass privatization.  citizens and improving demand for enterprise
shares at auction.
The sale of enterprise shares for savings
indexation certificates began with savings
indexation certificates and privatization
certificates used in the auctions, as approved
by the Cabinet of Ministers.
Implementation of streamlined privatization  Formal rules streamlining agro-industrial
procedures for agro-industrial enterprises  enterprise privatization will be enacted.
began.
To ensure that all of enterprises'  The auction mechanism for compensation
shares are transferred to private   certificates was modified to allow complete
owners so that the state does not    auction clearing regardless of the number of
o      continue to hold shares and exercise  bidders.
management authority over
enterprises.
Improved public information on and  The SPF issued an order requiring that:
transparency of the privatization
process.                             1. full share allocation plans be published
before auctions; and
2.  auction results be published within three
weeks of completing the auctions.
Maintenance of steady, rapid         Privatization of more than 2000             Privatization of 3,500 medium/large enterprises  Privatization of 5,000 medium/large
momentum of and the eventual        medium/large enterprises completed and       completed and majority (between 70 and 100     enterprises completed and majority (between
completion of mass privatization and  majority (between 70 and 100 percent) of   percent) of shares of these enterprises transferred  70 and 100 percent) of shares of these
the initiation of a second phase of  shares of these enterprises transferred into  into private hands, since January, 1995. Of these    enterprises transferred into private hands,
privatization addressing difficult  private hands, since January, 1995. Of these,    30 percent will be agro-industrial.        since January, 1995. Of these 35 percent
cases such as monopoly enterprises,  30 percent are agro-industrial.                                                            will be agro-industrial.
infrastructure objects.
The identification of at least 10 large
monopoly enterprises and the initiation of
work on privatization plans so that these
enterprises will be privatized in during
1997.



ANNEX 2
AREA/                      STATUS AND MEASURES TAKEN                  MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY SECOND                 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THIRD
OBJECTIVES                    BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION                                TRANCHE                          TRANCHE (estimated MARCH 31, 1997)
(estimated NOVEMBER 30, 1996)
B. Small-Scale Privatization
To accelerate the privatization of   The period of validity of the President's   No reversal in the favorable legal, institutional  No reversal in the favorable legal,
small-scale enterprises.             Decree on small-scale privatization offering  and methodological framework governing small  institutional and methodological framework
favorable direct buy-out terms and incentives  scale enterprise privatization and continued rapid  governing small scale enterprise
to leaseholders to allow enterprises to be  progress in implementation.                     privatization and continued rapid progress in
privatized by competitive means was                                                        implementation.
extended by 3 months to September 1, 1995.
Amended valuation methodologies so that the
purchase price of leased enterprises was
reduced to book value.
Instructions to local privatization bodies not
to renew leases on small scale enterprises.
Eliminated requirement that privatized small
scale enterprises should maintain existing
product ranges.
Disciplinary action taken against local
officials who do not implement instructions
on small scale privatization.
IV. DEVELOPMENT OF CAPITAL MARKETS
Creation of an independent Securities    The SSMC was created. SSMC
and Stock Markets Commission        Commissioners were elected; a budget and an
(SSMC).                             organizational structure approved.
Complete staffing of the SSMC.      Key departmnents essentially staffed, i.e.,  SSMC fully staffed.
legal, licensing, supervision, corporate
frnance.
Creation of Self-Regulatory                                                                                                     Legal framework for SROs adopted, a Code
Organizations:                                                                                                                  of Conduct of market participants approved
by the SSMC.
- association of collective investmnent    An Ukrainian Association of Investment  A Code of Conduct adopted by UAIB.
intermediaries.                     Businesses (UAIB) supported by USAID has                                                    SROs membership mandatory for all
been registered and is accepting membership                                                licensed market participants.
applications.



ANNEX 2
AREA)                            U  A     ME      ETAKE         ME ASURES TO BE TAKEN BY SECOND                      MEASURES:TO RE T           BY TWRD
OBJCTIME                      B.:FPEO BORENTATON                                        TRANCHE                         TRA(simad  MH3.1997)
(estimated NOVEMBER 30, 1996)
association of broker/dealers      An initiative to create an association of
broker/dealers is being supported by USAID.
Creation of pilot independent        Three pilots identified by TACIS consultants.  Dissemination of know-how free of charge.
Registrars for Shares.
Three pilots identified by USAID consultants.    Dissemination of know-how free of charge.
Creation of transitional registrars for    Transitional registrars operational.  Phasing-out and/or privatization of transitional
shares in Auction Centers.                                                       registrars.
Creation of the National Depositary  General NDS concept prepared.               Standards for NDS adopted.                      NDS operational.
System (NDS) including a National
(Central) Depositary and a network                                               Creation of the National Depositary as an
of integrated privately operated local                                           independent legal entity.
depositaries.
Introduction of crucial legislation for  Decrees issued on regulation of investment  All legislation adopted.                   All legislation made operational by the
regulation of capital markets.      funds and investment companies and of                                                       SSMC.
4>                                         registrars and depositaries.
Draft decrees prepared regulating capital
markets in the areas of:
-Investor Protection
-Registrars, Depositories and Custodians
-Broker/Dealers and their SRO
-Trading Systems.



>            l i | l l w~~~~~~~~~~~
l-'Wii-SX  l   U



MOP Schedule D
ANNEX 4
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ukraine
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original amount in USS millions                    between expected
Project        Lown or       Fiscal                                                                                                                                       nd actual
ID          Credit No.      Year                  Borrower                           Purpose                     IBRD            IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   disbursemeots
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 0
Active Loans
UA-PA-34581        L39850        1996     UKRAINE                              HOUSING                                 17.00                                      17.00
UA-PA-38820        W38650        1995     GOVT. OFUKRAINE                      HYDROPOWERREHAB.                       114.00                                     11400               11.12
UA-PA-44110        L40160        1996    GOVERNMENTOF UKRAINE                  COALPILOT                               15.81                                      1581
UA-PA-9106        L36140        1993      MtNISTRY OF FINANCE, UKRA           INSTITUTION BUILDING                    27.00                                      23.33              19.56
UA-PA-9108        W38310         1995     UKRAINE                             REHABILITATION                         500.00                                       0.75               075
UA-PA-9117        L38910        1995      GOVT. OFUKRAINE                     AGRIC. SEEDDEVELOPM                     32.00                                      3200                982
TOTAL                                                                                                              705.81          0.00            0.00       202.89              41.25
Active Loas                  Closed Loans                          Total
Total disbursed (1BRD and MDA)                                             502.92                          0.00                        502.92
Of which repaid                                                            0.00                          0.00                          0.00
Total now held by IBRflD and IDA                                           705.81                          0.00                        705.81
Amount sold                                                                  0.00                          0.00                           0 00
Of which repaid                                                            0.00                          0.00                          0.00
Total undisbursed                                                          202.89                          0.00                        202.89
& Intended disbursements to date minus acwtul disbursements to date as projected at appnusal.
Note: Dibursement data am updated at the end of the first week of the month
MOP Schedule D
Run date     5/30196
Ukraine - Statement of IFC Investments
As of 4/30/96
(US5 millions)
Originsl Gross Comjlnxents
Fiscal                                                                                        IFC        IFC                                 Heldy         Held by   Undsb. imnt
Year                             ObDlgor                            )1w ofBusiness          LOeW      Equ1i    Parrcrpss           Torals       IFC   Purricpanss   Participants
1994      Ucraine Fund                                           Finacial Servies                       2.00                        2.00        2.00                       0.80
Total gos  commitments b/                                                         0.00        2.00          0.00          2.00
Loeu cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales                               0.00        0 00          0.00          0.00
Total commitments now held cl                                                     0.00        2.00          0.00          2.00       2.00          0.00          0.80
Panding Commiunets
Ukrine Fund                                            Financial Sevics                       1.50                        1.50
Total peding commitments                                                          0.00        1.50          0.00          1.50
Total commitments held ad pendinS commitmenht                                     0.00        3.50          0.00          3.50
Total undiuirsad commitmen                                                        0.00        0.80          0.00          0 80
b/ Grn commistments consiat of approved and sipgd projac.
GlHeld wmmtmitnens raist of dhWxned and undisbursed invsmesent
44



ANNEX 5
UKRAINE: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
The Privatization Process in Ukraine
Institutional Arrangements for Privatization
The SPF is Ukraine's central government organ with main responsibility for privatization. Its
Head has the status of a Minister, though he reports to the Parliament as well as to the Cabinet of
Ministers.
Since the beginning of the privatization process in Ukraine, there has been an increasing
tendency of centralization of authority for privatization in order to increase the effectiveness of the
process. Two central privatization organs were initially created in 1991, the Ministry of Destatization
and Demonopolization, which had responsibility for creating the normative base for privatization, and
the SPF, which was to execute the sale of state property. In 1993, both functions were consolidated
in the SPF and the Ministry of Destatization was abolished. There has also been a demarcation of
responsibility for privatization between the center and the regions. City- and oblast-level property
funds were created to sell off locally-owned or "communal" property, (mainly small-scale objects of
retail trade, catering, and services) as defined in the 1991 Law on Ownership. These local property
funds did not initially report directly to the SPF. Instead, they were to fulfill nationally-set
privatization policies, but reported to local administrations. Because many local administrations have
opposed and blocked fulfillment of national privatization goals, a President's Decree on the
Unification of Privatization Organs was passed in early 1994. This decree mandates that all local
property funds be placed under the authority of the SPF.
The SPF currently consists of a central office in Kiev and 27 regional branches with
responsibility for the privatization of state-owned property. There are also 393 other privatization
offices in Ukraine including SPF representational offices in large cities (auxiliary to the 27 branch
offices located in oblast capitals), oblast property funds, and city property funds. The integration of
local property funds into this structure has met with varying degrees of success due to the resistance
of local officials and is still not achieved in some regions. In order to implement the stream-lined
mass privatization program, a Ukrainian Auction Center network, which reports to the SPF and is
funded largely by USAID, has been set up with an auction center and bid collection sites in every
oblast.
Legal Framework Governing Privatization
The initial legal framework for privatization was established in 1992 when the Parliament of
Ukraine passed a series of legislative acts including the "Law on Privatization of Small Government
Enterprises" and the "Law on Privatization of Property of Government Enterprises" (which pertained
to medium and large enterprises). Also in 1992 the Law on Privatization Certificates was passed.
Under this law, dematerialized certificates (in the form of Savings Bank deposit accounts) to be
redeemed for shares in enterprises undergoing privatization were issued to all citizens of Ukraine.
The total value of the certificates issued was equal to 70 percent of the estimated value of all property
subject to privatization. On the basis of these laws, the Parliament passed the 1992 State Privatization
45



ANNEX 5
Program, which provided for the privatization of between 5 percent and 30 percent of property,
depending on the sectoral branch, in 1992 and the completion of privatization by the end of 1994.
Despite the early establishment of a relatively progressive legal framework and ambitious
privatization targets, complicated implementation procedures and retrograde leasing legislation
blocked speedy progress on privatization. These obstacles reflected weak overall political
commitment to privatization and the influence of entrenched interests from the old Soviet structure,
especially some enterprise directors, workers' collectives and branch ministries.
Under the 1992 "Law on Leasing Property of State-Owned Enterprises and Organizations," a
development of the Soviet leasing law from the late 1980s, workers' collectives received priority right
to lease the assets of SOEs. Many of these lease agreements included buy-out provisions under which
the lessee was given first right to purchase the enterprise--usually at a very low price. For medium-
scale and large enterprises, profits earned by the leased enterprises could be used to gradually buy-out
the assets. Even when a buy-out provision was not included, lessees were allowed to purchase the
enterprise through direct sale. Leaseholders could also block any outside initiative to privatize the
enterprise. While there have been many Government initiatives to curtail leasing privileges, the
leaseholders' lobby was very active and influential in Parliament and was able to preserve the
majority of the rights given to them under the 1992 law. Leasing was most widespread for small
enterprises and was thus the major obstacle to small-scale privatization.
The initial lengthy, complicated, and ultimately unsuccessful procedures for privatization of
medium-scale and large enterprises' consisted of a protracted two-track corporatization process and a
non-transparent share sale process. For enterprise preparation, part of the enterprise pool was to be
corporatized under the auspices of the SPF while another list of 3500 enterprises, in accordance with
a President's Decree "On the Corporatization of State-Owned Enterprises" of June 1993, was to be
corporatized under the Ministry of Economy with branch ministries involved as the founders of the
newly created open joint-stock companies. In both cases the process was slow as lengthy
inventorization and evaluation procedures were required, and in the case of the Ministry of Economy
program branch ministries actively blocked the corporatization of many of their enterprises. On the
share-sale side, the use of dematerialized Savings Bank accounts and the method of bidding for
1.     Enterprise segmentation by size is as follows:
Group A: maximum 700 million kbv book value as of 8/1/93 (after indexation of 1/1/95 approximate maximum
24.5 billion kbv book value or US$175,000);
Group B: minimum 700 million kbv to maximum 45 billion kbv book value as of 8/1/93 where the workers could
purchase the entire enterprise utilizing closed subscription privileges (after indexation of 1/1/95 approximate
minimum value of 24.5 billion kbv book value or US$175,000 and maximum of 1.57 trillion kbv or US$11.25
million);
Group C: minimum 700 million kbv to maximum 45 billion kbv book value as of 8/1/93 where the workers
cannot purchase the entire enterprise utilizing closed subscription privileges (after indexation of 1/1/95
approximate minimum value of 24.5 billion kbv book value or US$175,000 and approximate maximum of 1.57
trillion kbv or US$11.25 million); and
Group D: minimum 45 billion kbv book value as of 8/1/93 (after indexation of 1/1/95 approximate minimum
value of 1.57 trillion kbv or US$11.25 million).
Other categories of enterprises in Group D, irrespective of size, include monopolies, defense sector enterprises
targeted for conversion, and enterprises designated for privatization with foreign investment.
46



ANNEX 5
enterprise shares by mail was mystifying to most citizens. Additional complications resulted with the
auctions, which lasted up to four months and which were carried out by the enterprises themselves.
This led to many complaints of mishandling of bids.
In July 1994 the Ukrainian Parliament, through the passage of Resolution No. 194 "On the
Improvement of the Privatization Process in Ukraine and Increasing Control Over It," imposed a
moratorium on the signing of sale-purchase agreements for all-government property as opposed to
communal property. This effectively halted the privatization of medium-scale and large enterprises.
Although exercising lease buy-out options was also prohibited under the moratorium, many workers'
collectives circumvented this by purchasing leased enterprises of communal property through direct
buy-out. While the stated reason for the moratorium, as explained in the Resolution, was to
investigate wrongdoings in privatizations carried out to date (especially undervaluation of property),
the moratorium was largely supported by Socialists, Communists, and other staunch opponents of
privatization. Importantly, the Resolution also mandated that the Parliament approve a list of all
enterprises not subject to privatization as the primary condition for lifting the moratorium.
Previously, a list of sectors not subject to privatization was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. This
new requirement of the compilation of a list of all enterprises and its passage by the Parliament
proved to be a bureaucratic and procedural catastrophe, and it is still unclear to many in the
Parliament and Government when and how the moratorium was officially lifted. Impatient with the
indecision and confusion regarding the moratorium on privatization in Parliament, President Kuchma
took an assertive position and reactivated privatization.
As part of the radical economic reform program introduced in October 1994, President
Kuchma announced the Ukrainian Government's renewed commitment to privatization and pledged
the privatization of 8,000 medium-scale and large enterprises as well as the completion of 90 percent
of small-scale privatization. In November 1994 President Kuchma signed Decree No. 699 "On
Measures to Guarantee the Rights of Citizens to Use Privatization Certificates" which dramatically
streamlined enterprise preparation and share-sale procedures. The decree eliminated detailed
inventorization and evaluation requirements for enterprises intended for mass privatization and instead
mandated that the nominal price of an enterprise's shares be determined from the enterprise's book
value on January 1, 1995. For enterprises entering mass privatization, the decree also eliminated the
possibility of individual privatization and share allocations plans (except in instances where the
enterprise was already partially privatized). Instead, at least 70 percent of large enterprises had to be
offered for sale at closed subscription to workers and open subscription for certificates to the
population. For medium-scale enterprises, 100 percent of shares had to be offered. The membership
of enterprise privatization commissions was greatly simplified and tight deadlines for all the steps of
corporatization were set including for the registration of share issuance and the transfer of all
documents by the enterprise to the SPF. Decree No. 699 also significantly increased SPF's authority
for privatization vis-a-vis other government structures by abolishing the Ministry of Economy's
corporatization program and entirely removing branch ministries from the corporatization process. In
late December a second President's Decree was passed introducing the distribution of paper
privatization certificates.
Also at the end of November 1994 a Presidential Decree to speed small-scale privatization
was passed. It mandated the completion of the commercialization of separate small-scale physical
entities; that signing of new lease agreements be prohibited: and that leased enterprises buy-out their
47



ANNEX 5
assets (through direct buy-out, thereby circumventing the moratorium) by June 1, 1995. If the leased
enterprise fails to do so by June 1, the assets would be subject to "universal" or competitive methods
of privatization as well. As an additional incentive for fast privatization, buy-outs exercised before
June 1 would be at a lower purchase price; after June 1 a valuation method taking into account
potential profitability would be employed. The owners of enterprises privatized before June 1 were
also given the right to purchase the enterprise's premises (usually premises for enterprises in larger
buildings are only leased as there is not yet a condominium law in effect), though the purchase price
for premises was also to be determined taking into account future profitability. Finally, workers'
collectives who formed buyers' associations and allowed objects to be sold by competitive means
received a 30 percent discount on the sale price if they won and 10 percent of proceeds from the sale
of the enterprise if they lost. Many of the provisions of the Decree were controversial but its passage
was a clear demonstration of President Kuchma's commitment to privatization.
A President's Decree "On the Compensation of the Citizens of Ukraine for the Loss of their
Cash Deposits in the Savings Bank and Ukrainian State Insurance Fund" was signed in November
1994. This Decree was issued in large part to assuage concerns about the erosion of the value of
citizens' savings accounts due to inflation. Under this Decree the value of citizens' savings in the
state Savings Bank on January 1, 1992, were to be indexed by 2,200 times with compensation taking
the form of paper, tradeable certificates which could be used for the purchase of shares of medium-
scale and large enterprises at auction. While it was decided in late 1994 that 30 percent of an
enterprise's shares would be offered for these certificates, it was not until January, 1996 that the
details of the procedures for the use of savings indexation certificates were finally approved.
Most recently in February 1996 a Presidential decree gave new impetus to the mass
privatization process by setting deadlines for the collection (June 30, 1996) and redemption
(December 31, 1996) of privatization certificates. The same decree also granted an additional
preferential access of 5 percent of the shares at book value to enterprise managers who cooperate with
the privatization process and deadlines. It also formally set the targets for privatization in 1996 and
removed the previous bottleneck of the need for enterprise audits prior to privatization.
Privatization Methodology
Under Ukrainian Law, every citizen of Ukraine is entitled to one privatization certificate.
When originally issued in 1992, these certificates were dematerialized and took the form of deposit
accounts in the Savings Bank. The original value of the certificates was 35,000 kbv, but they have
since been indexed twice and now carry the value of 50 million kbv. As specified in law, Ukrainian
privatization certificates are non-tradeable, that is, they may only be invested directly into an
enterprise or a financial intermediary such as an investment fund. Restrictions on the sale of
certificates, however, have been circumvented in practice through the creation of investment trusts to
which citizens may sell their certificates using a futures contract type agreement. In December 1994
paper privatization certificates, printed with funds donated by the U.S. Government, were introduced
into circulation replacing the dematerialized accounts. The paper certificates are indivisible and
therefore the entire value of the certificate must be invested at one time. Distribution of compensation
(index linked savings) certificates to the population began in early 1996. Unlike privatization
certificates, these new certificates are tradeable between individuals.
48



ANNEX 5
Medium and large-scale SOEs sold through the mass privatization process are transformed
into open joint-stock companies and their shares are sold for privatization certificates and
compensation certificates and, on a more limited basis, for cash. Citizens may participate in mass
privatization and invest their certificate by either going to a government-sponsored auction center or
smaller bid collection site or by going directly to a financial intermediary. Employees of enterprises
undergoing privatization also have the option of investing their certificate into their own enterprise
under privileged terms during a closed subscription period which precedes the sale of shares to the
public through open subscription.
Unlike Russia where employees were guaranteed the right to acquire at least 51 percent of an
enterprise, enterprise employees in Ukraine are not guaranteed the right to acquire a fixed percentage
of an enterprise. For agro-industrial enterprises, however, suppliers are guaranteed the right to
purchase at least 51 percent of an enterprise for their certificates and cash. Instead, the amount
employees may purchase varies from enterprise to enterprise. During closed subscription, each
employee is allowed to purchase shares of the enterprise at nominal value by investing his or her
certificate as well as half of the value of a certificate in cash. Additionally, enterprise management is
guaranteed the right to purchase 5 percent of the enterprise for their certificates and cash, and, since
February, 1996, an additional 5 percent if they comply with privatization deadlines.
During open subscription, the purchase price of shares is determined by auction. Until May,
1996 the nominal value of the shares was the auction floor price, and this still applies for shares
transferred for privatization certificates, but the new compensation certificates are now able to buy
shares for below nominal value and thereby clear the auctions. Individual citizens may submit only an
unpriced bid, that is, they are obliged to purchase the shares at the auction-determined price.
Financial intermediaries, however, may submit a priced bid in which they indicate the maximum price
they are willing to pay for one share of the enterprise. Their bid will be returned to them if their
price requirements are not met.
Small-scale enterprises are not transformed into open joint-stock companies and their shares
are therefore not sold through a subscription process. Instead the enterprises, most of which are
registered as limited liability companies, are sold for cash to individuals or a legally registered
buyers' association through direct sale or "buy-out," tender, or auction. Employees who are part of a
buyers' association purchasing the enterprise in which they work may include their privatization
certificates as part of the payment.
49



ANNEX 6
UKRAINE: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Capital Markets in Ukraine
The Legal Framework
The legal framework directly addressing capital market activities in Ukraine includes: the Law
on Securities and Stock Exchange (Securities Law-June 1991), the Law on Business Enterprises
(Company Law-September 1991), the Law on Privatization Certificates (April 1992), the Presidential
Decree on Investment Funds and Investment Companies (February 1994), the Presidential Decree
establishing the Securities and Stock Markets Commission, the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on
Measures Providing State Regulation and Control of Securities Markets, and a temporary regulation
on registrars of shares of privatized companies. Capital market activities are also regulated by a
number of lower level regulations issued by the State Property Fund (SPF), the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU). In addition in mid-1995, Parliament approved a
general concept paper on the future development of the capital markets in Ukraine.
Corporate Governance. The Company Law makes a distinction between privately and
publicly held joint-stock companies, sets rules for public subscription of shares and regulates
relationships between shareholders and governance bodies of a joint-stock company. The general
meeting of shareholders is the highest regulatory body, with the authority to amend the company's
statutes, elect and dismiss members of supervisory and management bodies, liquidate the company or
its parts, and set rules of remuneration of company employees and approve large commercial
contracts. The Law establishes two permanent bodies: a supervisory council and the board of
directors. The functions of the supervisory council are limited and, for example, may be transferred
to the board of directors by the general meeting of shareholders. The directors have broad
operational authority within limitations imposed by the Law and the statutes of a company. Neither
the Company Law nor the Securities Law have provisions protecting minority shareholders against
unfair actions by majority shareholders, directors, or regulating the acquisition of significant blocks of
shares (take-over) through the secondary market.
Securities. The Securities Law covers all standard corporate securities (equity and debt) but
concentrates mostly on shares. The Law stipulates that issuers themselves are responsiblefor keeping
registers of shares. Presently this requirement is most commonly interpreted to mean that companies
should directly operate share registries. However, the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24
February 1995 states that centers for auctioning shares for privatization certificates should keep share
registries or delegate this function to third parties. According to the law: (i) for registered shares a
register should contain information about each shareholder, date of purchase and number of shares
owned by individual shareholders, (ii) for bearer shares a registrar records only the number of shares
issued'. The description of distinctive features of shares provided in the Securities Law, if strictly
interpreted, requires that shares have to be issued in physicalform requiring a company seal and the
signature of an executive director.
1.    However, the Privatization Law allows only registered shares.
50



ANNEX 6
Disclosure Requirements. The Company Law and Securities Law describe basic disclosure
requirements for publicly traded securities. These include a specific disclosure requirement for an
initial public offering and continuous liability provisions for secondary public trading. A new issue
should be registered with the "relevant financial authority". The broad provisions of the Securities
Law had not been specified by detailed regulations and were for all practical purposes not effective.
Custodians2. There is no legislation in force regarding provision of custodian services. An
instruction issued by the MOF regarding activities of investment funds and companies simply required
that both institutions should keep their portfolio securities in safe custody run by banks, stock
exchanges and other financial institutions.
Depositaries. The decree of the President of Ukraine dated May 25, 1994 provides for the
creation of a national depositary system based on the Central Depository for Securities owned by the
Ukrainian Stock Exchange (USE). However, it has not become operational as the Cabinet of
Ministers had not issued necessary regulations to make it effective. Proposed solution raises a serious
question of granting monopolistic position to one of the many trading operators (the USE) without
broad acceptance of a significant part of market community.
Trading Systems. The Securities Law defines only the major features of a stock exchange; its
permitted activities, legal form and licensing requirements. There were no regulations regarding off-
exchange trading by any form of over the counter (OTC) markets and/or individual brokerage houses.
Market Intermediaries. Broker/dealers are regulated by the Securities Law. The Law sets the
rules for licensing brokers and dealers (separately), dealing in securities of related businesses,
permitted levels of open positions and size of portfolio for dealers. It also requires that all
transactions have to be reported to a stock exchange. All these requirements, except liberalized
licensing rules, have not yet been implemented.
Collective Investment Vehicles. These include: investment funds, investment companies and
trust companies. Differences between investment funds and investment companies are small; both
pool investors' capital in exchange for shares issued to founders and participation units issued to the
rest of the investors. Shareholders and unit holders co-own and participate proportionally in returns
from the portfolio of a fund. The portfolio is managed by the fund managers. A single fund cannot
hold more than 25 percent of the shares of a single issuer and can not invest more than 10 percent of
its overall portfolio in securities issued by a single issuer. Trust companies conclude individual
contracts between trusts and individual investors. The Trust is obliged to maintain individual
accounts for separate portfolios of individual investors. All operations on portfolios have to be
registered and are subject to conditions set by a contract between a trust and an investor. Particular
assets can be withdrawn from the portfolio at the request of an investor. There is no limitation on the
portfolio's structure. Investment funds and investment companies on the one hand and trusts on the
other are treated differently for tax purposes. Investment funds and companies pay a corporate
income tax based on the net increase of the value of their portfolios and investors are supposed to pay
2.     Often misleadingly refereed to in Ukraine as "local depositaries."
51



ANNEX 6
an income tax on capital gains, which leads to discriminatory double taxation. Trust companies pay a
corporate income tax based on their gross income (commission minus operational costs) and therefore
a tax on capital gains is paid only once by an investor.
Capital Market Organization and Infrastructure
The Ukrainian market is dominated by institutional investors, dealing both with cash and
privatization certificates. There are over 350 investment funds, investment companies and trust funds
licensed by the SPF to invest in privatization certificates. These are mostly concentrated in big cities-
-about 60% operate in five cities, with Kiev amounting for 25% of them.The MOF has licensed more
than 500 capital markets intermediaries investing in non-voucher instruments and offering brokerage
and consulting services. Commercial banks can also invest in securities and provide capital markets
services based on the universal banking license. The actual number of licensed collective investors
and intermediaries is, however, smaller as some of them acquired licenses both from the SPF and the
MOF, some of them are not operational yet, and in 34 cases their license has been revoked or
suspended. It is estimated that about 50% of the intermediaries licensed by the SPF are not fully
active.
There is a high level of concentration in investment control already at the stage of primary
markets. During the first year's auctions financial intermediaries bought about 85% of offered shares.
Even with the decreasing number of citizens placing their certificates with financial intermediaries the
funds will still play a decisive role in an emerging pattern of shareholding. About 30-40 funds and
trusts control about 80 percent of privatization certificates collected and/or bought from citizens. The
biggest and most active funds and trusts are parts of financial conglomerates, typically including a
bank, an insurance company, a pension fund, a trust company, and an investment fund. According to
fund managers, it will take two to three years to achieve the break-even point for the best of funds.
Funds did not report any profits for 1994 but this may reflect manipulation of reported financial
results in order to avoid taxation. Even further consolidation of funds may be expected.
The market is intermediated by dual capacity broker/dealers licensed by the MOF. The rules
of licensing are liberal; brokers have to pass a ministerial exam and there is no capital requirement
for brokerage firms. More than 500 broker/dealer licenses have been granted but only around 10
percent of brokers are actively trading securities. An additional 20 percent provide privatization
consulting. Most of the brokerage firms are located in Kiev.
The model of universal banking adopted in Ukraine allows commercial banks to operate in a
broker/dealer capacity on the basis of a general banking license. Banks can buy non-governmental
securities for their own accounts up to 10 percent of their own capital. At present 90 percent of
banks have obtained the additional license from the MOF but only about 20 percent of them have
started operations. Securities departments are financially not self-supporting for the time being and
are cross-subsidized by the banks' other activities. There is only a weak understanding of the
"Chinese wall" concept of separation of commnercial and investment banking (securities) businesses.
Floating and dealing in one's own company's bank securities is one of the main activities of
investment banking divisions.
52



ANNEX 6
Secondary trading takes place mostly in Kiev and most of it through an unregulated OTC
market. Only recently separate groups of commercial banks and independent brokerage houses have
undertaken initiatives to establish more regulated and centralized trading systems. This includes two
initiatives in Kiev: the Ukrainian Stock Exchange (USE) and the "Central Depository" system.
The USE was founded as a closed-type joint-stock company by 94 owners, commercial banks
and brokerage houses. It was registered by the Council of Ministers as an official stock exchange in
October 1991. In 1992 the French Government and the Association of French Stock Exchanges (SBF)
offered technical assistance, including necessary software, to develop the USE. Presently the USE
has 67 brokerage houses registered as members. The Central Depository of Shares is an independent
legal entity but fully owned by the USE. The agricultural bank "Ukraina" is the settlement bank.
Shares of two companies: "Ukrechflot" and "Bank Ukraina" are officially listed and quoted. In
addition shares of 12 companies are traded through an open-outcry auction. The volume of trade is
reportedly small. The market is closer to private placement intermediation, especially for "Bank
Ukraina" where dividends are small and single shares have the prohibitive price of US$65,000. The
USE participates in privatization through a growing volume of initial public offerings of shares of
companies to be privatized.
Another trading system, misleadingly called "The Central Depository", was established by a
group of securities dealers linked to major financial conglomerates and led by the financial group
KINTO. The system originated as a NASDAQ-type electronic network of securities dealers,
envisaging in addition an integrated system of depositary, clearance and settlement functions. In
practice, the system is an electronic bulletin board, matching potential buyers and sellers but does not
handle transactions. It also provides optional settlement i.e. transfers of ownership and payments.
The system is at a nascent stage of development, with very few transactions per week taking place.
Existing trading and settlement rules are lax and will not guarantee necessary security of transactions
once volumes are higher and participation broader. It is also not possible to assess the systems's
financial viability as facilities are provided and costs are partly borne by the Ministry of
Telecommunication. The system is only self-regulated; there is no formal supervision as it is not
registered as a stock exchange.
New initiatives include: three regional stock exchanges in Lviv, Dnepropetrovsk, and
Kharkiv; a new exchange in Kiev (named the International Stock Exchange in Kiev) sponsored by
major commercial banks. The USAID has started a project to create a regulated over-the-counter
market following the American NASDAQ model.
The market in terms of available products - their variety, numbers and volumes - is small.
Expected introduction of the so called saving certificates later in 1996 is likely to increase the volume
of secondary trade substantially. The certificates will be fully transferable bearer certificates, used at
par with privatization certificates to buy shares of privatized companies. The main driving force for
market growth will be, however, the mass privatization program.
Conclusions on the Organization and Behavior of the Market. The market is dominated by
institutional participants, not always sophisticated in western terms, ready to take substantial risk in
exchange for high returns. It has led to unregulated, segmented and nontransparent trading structures
53



ANNEX 6
and basic cash-on-delivery settlement procedures. Behavior of market participants is enforced by
informal self-regulatory rules and mutual trust (or distrust) between market participants. Information
about product availability and prices is scarce and this has its own price reflected in high fees and/or
margins charged by intermediaries. Under these conditions the objectives of market participants are
ambiguous. On the one hand market operators want to continue the present system with its
advantages for better informed and connected participants. On the other hand they are aware that the
present system cannot continue and in the long run, more transparent and regulated markets will
result in more trade and therefore higher returns.
Main Issues Remaining Unresolved in Early 1996
As mass privatization has gathered momentum, millions of new shareholders are emerging, all
with the right to trade their shares. Government needs to move rapidly to ensure that the laws and
institutions to facilitate and regulate this trade are created and made operational as quickly as possible.
Transfer of Ownership: Registrars, Depositories, Custodians. Almost all private or
privatized companies held their registrars either themselves or via a subsidiary established solely for
this purpose. Very few companies delegated management of registrars to third, truly independent,
parties. The situation was far from ideal since issuers were able to conceal and even misrepresent the
ownership structure of their companies. It was, however, better than in other FSU countries where
many companies had not established registrars at all. Only a few banks seem to be interested in
offering custodian services and costs for investors are said to be very high. Investment funds,
companies and trust companies are obliged by law to keep shares in safe custody but many of them
do not follow this requirement. It is very unlikely that individual investors would use custodians.
The only depository operational in early 1996, set up with the assistance of the French Association of
Stock Exchanges (SBF), is owned by the Ukrainian Stock Exchange (USE). The Government
together with the NBU is creating an independent central depository for government securities, based
on the same software previously granted to the USE. There are several projects underway to establish
regional depositaries linked to new stock exchanges in: Kharkiv, Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk and
Odessa. Also the "Central Depository" trading system plans to extend its services and to act as a
depository.
Secondary Trading. The experience of mass privatization programs in other countries
suggests that two new segments of a secondary stock market will soon emerge in Ukraine:
(i)    A market for blocks of shares traded between sophisticated investors: investment
funds, strategic investors, institutional domestic and foreign portfolio investors. The
main challenge for the block market is its likely opaque trading mechanism and poor
price dissemination. For example, in the Czech Republic and Lithuania as much as
80 percent of trading in shares issued as a result of the mass privatization programs is
done through block transactions between investment funds, with very little price
dissemination.
(ii)    A retail market for small amounts of shares owned mostly by employees and traded
between unsophisticated investors. The main challenges for the retail market are lack
54



ANNEX 6
of security and fairness of transactions, high transaction costs, market fragmentation,
high volatility of prices. Trading frequency and liquidity may vary substantially from
share to share and over time for the same share. Also the shares of some companies
will be traded nationwide while others will be limited to local markets. Trading
systems should be flexible and open-ended enough to accommodate all of these
features and future unpredictable developments.
Generally, there is a need to reach an equilibrium between some level of market integration
and its competitiveness. Particularly, a tendency to secure a monopolistic position of some trading
systems based on state concessions and regulatory limitations should be checked.
Clearance and settlement do not create serious problems yet, as transactions are completed in
so-called "off-market" trades where the buyers and sellers deal face-to-face with each other. The two
parties make their own arrangements for clearing and settlement and each must satisfy himself that the
other party will meet his obligations. This is the present situation in Ukraine. However, once the
number of buyers and sellers grows and trading takes on the more organized forms of regulated
markets, poor clearing and settlement can seriously undermine market confidence and reliability. The
key issue concerns the creation of clearing and settlement organizations (CSO) to guarantee the
performance of the parties to the trade.
Market supervision. A problem that Ukraine has in common with other countries of the
region is poor enforcement of existing laws. Enacting modern laws following the best Western
examples is of little value if the laws cannot be enforced. Enforcement is poor because of weak or
non-existent commercial courts and inefficient administration. It may also be in the interest of some
managers of privatized companies and market operators to keep regulation vague and un-enforceable.
Supervisory functions are fragmented between different governmental agencies: the MOF, SPF,
Ministry of Justice (MOJ), NBU, and the Parliament. None of these institutions has appropriate
staffing to supervise the market and enforce legal norms. The Ministry of Finance is empowered by
the decree of the Council of Ministers (COM) to "organize the administration of securities and
financial (money) markets". The MOF also licenses broker/dealers, investment funds and custodians.
The MOF and its territorial branches register new issues of securities. The SPF licenses trust
companies, investment funds and investment companies dealing with privatization certificates.
A Securities and Stock Market Commission (SSMC) was formed as a central state executive
body--pursuant to a June 12, 1995 Presidential Decree--but its functions have still to be confirmed by
Parliamentary approval of the draft Law On State Regulation of Securities Markets. Once this Law
has been passed it can take over the capital markets regulatory functions at present dispersed among
other agencies and become fully responsible for the implementation of a government policy with
regard to functioning of the securities markets and coordination of the activities of state executive
bodies in this sphere. Members of the Commission: a Chairman of the Commission, a Deputy
Chairman and three Commissioners were appointed. They are independent full-time officials
appointed for a fixed term and removable only under strict conditions provided by the Decree. The
SSMC has two purposes: (i) to promote and ensure professional, fair, orderly and transparent
operations of capital markets, and (ii) to promote and protect investors rights. The SSMC will
regulate, license and supervise the following activities and services of market participants: (1) initial
55



ANNEX 6
public offering of securities, (2) registrars, depositories, custodians, (3) broker/dealer, investment
advising and portfolio management (4) secondary trading systems, (5) clearing and settlement,
(6) offering and management of collective investment vehicles, (7) investment banking services
(underwriting, public placement, etc.). However, this will require a number of amendments to
existing laws.
Two embryonic self-regulatory organizations (SROs) exist: the Ukrainian Association of
Securities Dealers, created in June 1992, and The Ukrainian Association of Trust Companies,
Investment Funds and Investment Companies established in October 1994. They were more informal
lobbying groups than full fledged self-regulatory bodies. A new initiative was undertaken to create an
SRO for firms offering collective investments; it resulted in registration of the Ukrainian Association
of Investment Businesses. Presently the Association has 140 members, a Supervisory Board and an
Executive Director. It also adopted the Code of Conduct. The Association is financially supported by
USAID.
56



ANNEX 7
PROCUREMENT MATRIX: EDAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Sub-Component                                        Amount          Procurement          1.TPr*paration of    Invitation   Signingof -
____________i__-__-_- __:__-     USDOG 000                     _______-       .       biddingdocuient   t. bid            contriiii
1. Model restructuring (1)                             900      Shortlist of firms      June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
2. Low-cost restructuring pilots (4)                   1,200   - Shortlist of firms     June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
3. Liquidation and bankruptcy pilots (2)                950    - Shortlist of firms     June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
4. Technical Assistance Fund for restructuring (10- 15)  2,750   - Shortlist of firms   June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
5. Management training                                 950    - Shortlists of firms/    June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
individuals
6. Catalyse professional associations (10)             950    - Roster of qualified     June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
consulting firms
7. Create commercial database company                  450    - Shortlist of firms      June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
8. Support of SPF management                           400    - Shortists of firms      June 1996            July 1996   September 1996
800    - Individual consultants
based on competitive
selection__ ____
9. Support of UCPPS organization (7 individuals)        650    - Shortlist of 3 staff or  June 1996          July 1996   September 1996
consultants per position
Total costs:                                           10000
57



ANNEX 8
Ukraine at a glance
.. ..     .   . .   . . . .    E    -
..  .... ll' - :!   i:   0  :   t    |Europe &       Lower-
POVERTY and soCttAL                                          Central middle-
Ukraine .    Asia: Income    Development diamond'
Poplation mid-1994(millfons)l                        51.9       498   1t097                 Life expectancy
GNP percapita 194            . .USS)                1 913     2 430    1,680
Average annualagrowth, 1990-94
Population (%)                                         0.0       0.5      1.4
tabor force (56:                                        .          ..     16     GNP                   .             Gross
Most recentestimate (laet yneravailbble since 1989)                              per                               primary
.bW*tyheidouitineBtS6iDtjwutfnJi  7 0     capita  ,    -'  enrollment
Puvery: lheadcounIj6t hider (6r of poulatin).                               .
Urbatn populationn (6iotll Po cHat! on)                70         64      54
Ut te eoetancyVat birth (yel)                          68        69       67
hifaM modality (pert 1.00 ivebis 14:bs)                15        19       35
Child matnutr iticei (6oof dfk*swtunder ti5) g
Acdiciss to safe water 6(X of popiJ at  )                          .       78              Access to safe water
illiiteracy (UoeF pplatbionage 1t?O:;   ;               2
Gross primnary enrollmient (56 0 scho>oSl-ae popoulaton)  i187   97      104       -Ukraine
-:                __fulie  -        '   87 tLower-middle-income group
-emale  -87                                                    97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS:
S1975    198       1994    1995
Economic ratios'
Gross domestic invpstMenenGDP                  ..    27.3        8.8      9 3
Exports of goods & nfs/GDP                               .      64.5    46.9                Openness of economy
GrwOs domestic savirgs/GOP:                           28.4       3.0      6.7
Gloss national savins/DP::                                       2.7      4 8
Cuurrent account balance/GDP                                    -6.1    -4.4
Interest payments/GOP i                                          0        15      Savings                     Investment
To  debt/GDP--.                                                 31.5    23.4
Total debt service/exports                                       2.0      8.1
Presentvalue of deVbtG1P   -,9
Present value of debexports                                     363                             Indebtedness
197644w  198546    1994       1995  1909-04   I
(average annual growth)  : : i 0 : l: li  :: i :  :                                 -Ukraine
GO.....P...    :3.5  ~-6.6   -w23.5                       -1.        56
Pper. Capita (ATLAS)                 3,1    -6.8   -218        -14.7     -15 7      -Lower-middleincomegroup
Exportsoi goods andi 5i                  .   *. A .  -11:0       6         .6    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1994    1996
(% of GOP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and investment l%l
Agriculture                                           19.3      16.3    16.8    ro
Industry                                              45.6      42.6    40.1    4o0
Manufacturing                                       38.0      38.0    35.8    20
Services                                              35.2      34.9    390      -20    7       _49
-40-
Private consumption                                   53.7      77.2    77.2    !0-
General government consumption                        17.9       2.5      2.6
Imports of goods and non-factor services                        70.3    50.5                 -        '-GDP
197544  1985-95       1994    1995
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of *xports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                           -3 6     -22.0    -9.0    2S
Industry                                              -8.9    -29.9   -17 0       20
Manufacturing                                        2.2     -23.9   -17 0       s\
Services                                              -6.0     -33.8    -5.4    '0
Private consumption                                   -2.7     -23.1   -17.6      -s -     c    91   92    9        \
General government consumption                        -9.7     -23.1   -28.6      -
Gross domestic investment                            -18.6     -15.5    45.0
Imports of goods and non-factor services       ,                -7.2    -2.2                  Expons  -Impots
Gross national product                        3.5    -6.6      -23.5   -12.8
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
58



.ANNEX 8
U/kraifne
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1994      1995     1 Inflation (%I
Domestic prces
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   ..               891.1    376.0       1 *co1     
Implicit GDP deflator                           -0 5      -1.3     903 1    412 0       3000 4
2000
Govemment finance                                                                        00
(% of GOP)                                                                                o         _--_
Current revenue                                              .       45 3     42.2                go    91    92    93    94    95
Current budget balance                             .         .       -4.6     -0.9
Overall surplus'deficit                           ..-8 2                       -52 -2D   de  --CP
TRADE
1975     1985       1994      1995       Expottandimportlevelsfmill US)
(millions US$)
Total exports (fob)                                 -        --   12,111   13,647        9 000T
Commodity 1                                                .      3,980    4.541       ,4000-
Commodity 2                                                        496       566       12.000
Manufactures                                                      2,800    3,006       go.xo-
Total imports (cif)                                -         -    14,471   15,971        a 000
Food                                              -        -       676       704       6.000- .                              I
Fuel and energy                                  ..       ..      6,305    6,751       4000
Capital goods                                               .     2,978    3,819       2.000
Export price index (1987=100)                      --        --                                 99   90   91   92   93   94   95
Import price index (1987=100)                      .         .          ..
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                    .                                          r Exports __lmports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1994      1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Current account balance to GDP ratio
Exports of goods and non-factor services                    ..   14,713   16,399        0
Imports of goods and non-factor services                          16,044   17,637       I         n9 o    91   92    )'94  | 95'
Resource balance                                             .    -1,331    -1.238     i-2
Net factor income                                                     -71     -505
Net current transfers                                       ..       200       200      3T
Current account balance,
before official transfers                        ..        .    -1,596   -1,742       .5
Financing items (net)                              .        ..      1,501      708         -
Changes in net reserves                                               95    1,034      ,7
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)                                  646    1,133
Conversion rate (local/USS)                        -.       --   11,421   60,214
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1993      1994
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    .           3,738    7,185
IBRD                                                      .          0       102
IDA                                                                  0         0
Total debt service                                  -        -       199       293                          GA c
IBRD                                             .        .          0         0                    F   4192364
IDA                                                                  0         0                    867           r)
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   1877
Official grants                                           ..       120      200
Official creditors                                                 326        97                     E
Private creditors                               ..         .       296       175                   3557
Foreign direct investment                                  .        40        91
Portfolio equity                                                     0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                                         27       127       A- BRD                         E- B,ilerae  |
Disbursements                                                        0       102       e - IDA   0 - Otrer multilateral   F - PrrVate
Principal repayments                                                 0         0       Cc - IMF                       G-Shoit-term
Net flows                                                            0       102
Interest payments                                                    0         0
Net transfers                                                        0       102
International Economics Department                                                                                           5120196
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty
59






IBRD 27828
20'                                                   25'                                                     30'                                                     35'                                                   40'
BELARUS                               (                                 FERUSSIAN                                                    ROADS
I                                                                    -.      R *v  FEDERATION  PAILROADS
4 <  ffi  *  X                          o       SELECTED TOWNS AND CrilES
~~~~~~  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
POLAND  S,ee I                                   ,O MChe                                    -               - 2    AUTONOMOUS REPUBUC OR
-                                                             YShost~~~~~oa~~~.                                - rOBLAST BOUNDARIES
POLAND    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                         /                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a.-                                        INTERNAflONAL BOUNDARIES
Chemihiv  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 'ToMo~~~a,o.' ~~RIVERS
/        * Kovel                  Samy                  4      *  .K                  0                                        - O
T. Wonr                                                                                                    |     . --  k, ,_ ~I.' _.- ooa_
0Konotop        ..
Choray
Karoslen                                                                            T . Mo,coo,
.A ~~~~~~~~~~6OSumY\>~
Rivne                                                 /                   PryIuIy
-50 )               ro rnzcow / ) - TK                                                                                        _KYJV (KIEV)
L/                                      ,;    . .......  zhy1amprO  ~     ~ -x                                                             ,        Kharkicv -_
_,   ,  _ X X >o, } . " ............T..pil                    K.me.nysk!y Bl        J           T0,                                                     . .. ,Plv . -.  '_,  
SLOVAK                    1                                                                                                        eDroh&yc   TemapiICr   .  Tsko.  --
REPUBLIC                                  R- 6Cli. erkasy0                                                                                                                                                            R    r-'-
lraniov                                                                                                              emicoj                       2                           thmantk~
> ~ ' { o Uzhhorocld'  -,  FraKkivsk                                                                                           L,   -,, *                ,                    o-        p 
I t X RA                                                      X-O'Kirovhrod>Kmaniaa                                                                                                                             -
/FOPeramisk                   OKryyi Rih            . Q'Zpprizhzhia 'c      D       0        ,
Nykopa                                                           oR~o
(t                      ROMANIA    To 8oohor.RIOM AMOLDOVA                                                                                                                                                             . .Roo/
A, eRoan _er a                           215                             %           TKAe              -                               ,Myk0owv 'Oedpl                                            .-           Mrriupol
.: ,-s, -                               :     . __ >=,  n  .  ^ '  . ___---~' ' ''~------'  Berdiansk
RUSS       IA  LA                                                                                      * TV
FED     LITH     r          >                                              \             y         )  .*'  i >c          w   Odeso
-..LITH    r           '                                                                                                                          r~as
_._.i, ...... ;S 2        RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                        (            Bilhrod-                                       -RUSSIAN
t  BELARUS                                                                     J             Dnisironkyi                        KrmsnoperekRpsk.IA                                                                         N
BELARUS  ~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                  ---         '*                     ~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION
POAN /                                                                                                                                                                  ._  ,_.; ,_ -4 -t__ yEKoa.espriih  *     ,,' To Kro45-d-
POLAND                                                                                                                                                                                          Kerc--- 
/  ~~~~~._ J< ___ _ Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, |~~O                                                                                     TeodosiicO
., ~     ~         ~        ~         * .-' _  .-._(. .l     
pl-   ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ *'PS-n,Fropal
>--      MO~DOVA                                                                                L<       -~asoaj
HUNGR                                                                                               -Yat
-&\       ROWtANIA    i-- ,,  X                                                                                                                                     .__.   YcalKL KILOMETERS
yED REP t        ,_,_                                  _                     ,_                                                          _0                                                            50     100      150
OF   I._' luck ,I                                                                                                                                                                                                 
BULGARIA                 Sea                                  B       A            -                                                                                                r0'
At4 xMA.GRE'E&'t   TURKEY   GEORGtA  BULGARIA  t0                                                                                           50            100          150
mAu  77i;F, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. - )1, -                                                                                 115' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
* ~~U-----.W'             TURKEY 
MARCH 1 99F









I MAG,'IU11
Report No: i-           e392:.  JA
TYpe: PR,



