Page  1
June 12, 1998
Mr. Igor Mitiukov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2 Hrushevaky 
St. Kyiv, Ukraine  252008 
Ukraine
  Re:  Loan 4057 UA (Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan)  --
       Amendments to the Loan Agreement -- Project Implementation Unit
Dear Minister:
We refer to the Loan Agreement dated June 27, 1996, for the above-referenced 
Loan and to the letter, dated May 5, 1998, from Olexander M. Bondar, Head of the State 
Property Fund, to Paul Siegelbaum, requesting amendment of the Loan Agreement to allow 
for the financing of the operating costs of the Project Implementation Unit.  
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request and proposes 
to introduce the following amendments in the Loan Agreement:
1.
In the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
(Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan) the following new Category is hereby 
introduced, and the percentage of expenditures thereunder to be financed by the Loan 
is 100%: 
(1)(c) Operating Costs under Part A of the Project  
2.
In paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, a new sub-paragraph (c) is 
introduced as follows:
“(c)
The term “Operating Costs” means any reasonable and necessary expenses of 
the PIU in respect of the carrying out of its day-to-day operations and the 
administration of activities under the Project, which would not have been incurred in 
the absence of the Project, including inter alia staff salaries; minor office 
equipment and supplies; office rent; travel; transport; training; expenditures for 
office refurbishment and maintenance; utilities; cost of audits required under the 
Project; and such other incremental office operational costs and expenses as may be 
agreed by the Bank; provided, however, that such expenditures are actually made or 
incurred by the PIU in accordance with the principles described in Sub-paragraph (b) 
of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.”
3.
The Bank hereby also reallocates the proceeds of the Loan corresponding to the 
following Categories, in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement, as follows:  
(1)
Expenditures for the 
Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of 
Portion A of the Loan
(a)
Goods
  800,000
(b)
Consultants’ services
9,000,000
(c)
Operating Costs
  200,000
4.
Part C of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement (Description of the Project) is 
hereby amended to read as follows:
“Part C:  Project Administration 
Provision of technical assistance, goods and incremental operating costs 
(including audit costs) to strengthen government organizations for privatization and 
Page  2
post privatization support, including the SPF, the PIU and UCPPS.”  
5.
The last sentence of Schedule 4 is amended to provide for an extension of the 
project implementation period, and shall read as follows: “The Project is expected to 
be completed by December 31, 1999.”
6.
Sub-paragraph Paragraph 1 of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement 
(Technical Assistance Project: Implementation Program) is re-numbered sub-paragraph 
(a), and a new sub-paragraph (b) is hereby introduced as follows:
“(b)
   The PIU shall, by each June 1 and December 1 of each year during the 
implementation of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its review the proposed 
half-yearly work program of the PIU for the carrying out of the Project activities, 
including specific information, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
concerning the expenditures expected to be incurred by the PIU in respect of its 
operating expenses on account of such activities and the planned budget therefor and 
shall carry out the program and budget in accordance with principles acceptable to the 
Bank.” 
If the above amendments and stipulation are acceptable to the Borrower, the 
authorized representative of the Borrower should sign the two copies of this letter, 
returning one of the signed original copies of the letter to the Bank.  
These amendments will become effective upon the receipt by the Bank of the 
signed confirmation copy of this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Paul Siegelbaum
    Paul Siegelbaum
    Country Director, Ukraine
    Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: 
UKRAINE
/s/ Igor Mitiukov
    Authorized Representative
On this 22nd of June, 1998
