Page  1
February 18, 1998
Alexander N. Sorokin 
Chairman 
State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine 
8, Kreschatik Str. 
Kyiv, 252001 
Ukraine
Re:
Loan No. 4107-UA (Export Development Project) 
      Amendments to the Loan Agreement - Institutional 
Development of the Borrower              
Dear Mr. Sorokin:
We refer to the letter, dated August 11, 1997, from Alexander Sorokin to Paul 
Siegelbaum, concerning the progress of the Borrower’s program of institutional 
development, and requesting a modification in the form of support being provided by 
the Bank for the financing of such program.  We also refer to the Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements dated May 15, 1997, for the  above-referenced Loan.  
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request and proposes 
to introduce the following amendments in the Loan Agreement:
1.
In the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
(Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan), the portion of the Dollar Loan Tranche 
allocated to Category (2) (Consultants’ services for Part B of the Project), 
consisting of proceeds in the amount of $2,500,000, shall be reduced to $50,000.
2.
In  the table set forth as paragraph 1 of  Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement 
(Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan), the portion of the Dollar Loan Tranche 
allocated to Category (4) (Unallocated), consisting of proceeds in the amount of 
$2,500,000, shall be re-allocated entirely to a new Category (5) as follows:  
(5) Goods for Part B of the Project
The total Amount of the Loan which is allocated to such Category (5) (taking 
$2,450,000 from Category (2) as provided in paragraph 1 of this letter, plus 
$2,500,000 from Category (4) as provided in this paragraph) shall be $4,950,000 
(Expressed in Dollars), and this shall be allocated out of the Dollar Loan Tranche.  
The percentage of expenditures for such goods in Category (5) to be financed out of 
the Loan shall be 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory 
cost) and 80% of local expenditures for other goods procured locally.
3.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be modified by deleting 
the period at the end of sub-paragraph (b) thereof and substituting a semicolon 
therefor, and adding a new sub-paragraph (c) as follows:
"or (c) goods under Part B of the Project, under contracts not exceeding 
$300,000 equivalent."
4.
The heading to Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement shall be changed to read 
"Procurement of Goods and Selection and Employment of Consultants for Part B of the 
Project (Institutional Development of the Borrower)."  The paragraphs numbered 1 and 2 
shall be prefaced by a new heading "Section II.  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants," and said Section II shall be preceded by a new Section I as follows:
"Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and 
August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Page  2
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $400,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment or which are of a proprietary nature, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part B of the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods for Part B of the Project shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods under Part B of the 
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods under Part B of the 
Project to be procured: (i) pursuant to the method described in Part C, 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule (International Shopping), and estimated to 
cost 
the equivalent of $300,000 or more; or (ii) pursuant to paragraph 3 
of 
Part C of this Schedule (Direct Contracting), regardless of the cost 
thereof, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply."
Page  3
5.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 7 (Special Accounts) shall be modified by 
introducing the new Category (5) to the list of Eligible Categories in the case of 
Special Account A. 
If the above amendments are acceptable to the Borrower, the authorized 
representative of the Borrower should sign the two copies of this letter, returning 
one of the signed original copies of the letter to the Bank.  
These amendments will become effective upon the receipt by the Bank of the 
confirmation copy.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Paul Siegelbaum
    Country Director for Ukraine
CONFIRMED: 
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE
/s/  Alexander N. Sorokin
     Authorized Representative
Date:  March 20, 1998
