Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4057 UA
                           Loan Agreement
              (Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan)
                               between
                               UKRAINE
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated June 27, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4057 UA
                           LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1996, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 29, 1996, from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the enterprise sector in the
economy of the Borrower (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
      (B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the
Program, and pursuant to the building of an institutional base in support
therefor, having undertaken to carry out the Project described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to support the
Program during the execution thereof and to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
      WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided to provide such assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
                  "'Project' means the technical assistance project
                  described in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement."
      (b)   In Section 2.01, a new paragraph 21 is added to read:
                  "'Program' means the program referred to in the
                  Preamble to the Loan Agreement."
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (d)   Section 4.01 is modified to read:
                  "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
                  agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account: (a) in
                  respect of Portion A of the Loan shall be made in the
                  respective currencies in which the expenditures to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of Portion A of the Loan
                  have been paid or are payable; provided, however, that
                  withdrawals in respect of expenditures in the currency
                  of the member of the Bank which is the Borrower or the
                  Guarantor shall be made in such currency or currencies
                  as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably select;
                  and (b) in respect of Portion B of the Loan shall be
                  made in the currency of the deposit account specified
                  in Section 2.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement."
      (e)   Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                  "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the
                  Loan Account the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
                  with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these
                  General Conditions. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
                  shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:
                  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
                  any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
                  goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
                  territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
                  persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
                  such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank,
                  is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
                  Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
                  Charter of the United Nations."
      (f)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
            of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      (g)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
                  "(c)  Not later than six (6) months after the Closing
                  Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
                  purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
                  shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                  request, on the execution of the Program and the
                  Project, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
                  of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
                  and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
Page  3
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Artificial monopolies" means the industries described in
Resolution No. 135 of the Cabinet of Ministers of February 22, 1995, and
the order No. 59/3/N of the Ministry of Economy and Anti-Monopoly
Committee of the Borrower of May 13, 1996;
      (b)   "Cabinet of Ministers" means the Cabinet of Ministers of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement;
      (d)   "DSS" means  the depository system for securities intended to
be established by the Borrower in the course of the implementation of the
Program, pursuant to its policies regarding development of the capital
market, as described in the letter referred to in Recital (A) in the
Preamble to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Medium/large-scale enterprises" shall have the meanings as
given to such terms in the Borrower's State Program of Privatization for
1992-1993;
      (f)   "PIU" means the project implementation unit maintained
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;
      (g)   "Special Export Regime" means the special export regime
referred to in Decree No. 16/92 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the
Borrower dated December 26, 1992;
      (h)   "SPF" means the State Property Fund of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto; and
      (i)   "UCPPS" means the Ukrainian Center for Post-Privatization
Support, an entity created February 24, 1995, in compliance with the
legislation of Ukraine.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
      Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of three hundred ten million Dollars ($310,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) hereof,
the Loan shall consist of portion A (Portion A) in the amount of ten
million Dollars ($10,000,000) equivalent and portion B (Portion B) in the
amount of three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000) equivalent.
      Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of Portion A may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. For purposes of Portion B:
      (a)   Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of
this Section and Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall be
Page  4
entitled to withdraw the proceeds of Portion B from the Loan Account in
support of the Program.
      (b)   the Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter main-
tain in its central bank, a deposit account (Deposit Account) in Dollars,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All the proceeds of
Portion B from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the
Deposit Account.
      (c)   The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of Portion B shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. If at any time the Bank shall have
determined, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, and after an
exchange of views with the Borrower, that any proceeds of Portion B shall
have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if
the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan
Account for cancellation.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.06. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
           (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
                  amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
                  to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
                  of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
                  preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
Page  5
                  1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
                  this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
                  on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
                  Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
                  during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
                  Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
                  of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
                  Quarter."
                  "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
                  commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
                  in a calendar year."
      Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.09. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement, the Chairman of the State Property Fund is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in respect of
Portion A of the Loan.
                               ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through the SPF and the UCPPS with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project, and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                  each such year, the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures,
Page  6
the Borrower shall:
           (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
          (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   have the Deposit Account referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 2.03 of this Agreement audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
      (b)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the date of the Bank's request for
such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
      (c)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
                              ARTICLE IV
                   Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                              ARTICLE V
                             Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Page  7
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            12/2 Hrushevsky St.
            Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
                                           Telex:
                                           131450
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        UKRAINE
                        By /s/  Yuriy Shcherbak
                                          Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the allocation of the proceeds of the
Loan to the Project and the Program by categories corresponding to
Page  8
Portions A and B of the Loan and, in respect of the Project, establishes
subcategories of items required for the execution of the Project, together
with the percentage of expenditures for such items in each such sub-
category to be financed out of the proceeds of Portion A.
                                Amount of
                           the Loan Allocated             % of
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
    Category               Dollars Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Expenditures for the
     Project to be financed
     out of the proceeds of
     Portion A of the Loan
     (a)   Goods              1,000,000            100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures, 100%
                                                   of local expend-
                                                   itures (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 75% of
                                                   local expenditures
                                                   for other items
                                                   procured locally
     (b)   Consultants'       9,000,000            100%
           Services
(2)  Portion B of the Loan  300,000,000
                            ___________
         TOTAL              310,000,000
                            ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods and
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
under Category (1) prior to the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   The Bank may require withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Portion A (Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule) to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts referred to in paragraph 2
of Part C of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less; and (b) consulting services
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms,
and $50,000 equivalent for individual consultants, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made in respect of Category (2) after
the aggregate amount withdrawn thereunder shall have reached the equi-
valent of one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section
3.04 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 7
to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved
and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken
actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of Portion B of the Loan or any
part thereof.
Page  9
      (b)   No withdrawal shall be made in respect of Category (2) after
the aggregate amount withdrawn thereunder shall have reached the equiva-
lent of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), unless the Bank shall
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and
(ii) that the actions described in Section II of  Schedule 7 to this
Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken
actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of Portion B of the Loan or any
part thereof.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                        Excluded Expenditures
      For purposes of Section 2.03 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of Portion B shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.    expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other than
the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank
shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan;
3.    expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-
groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group       Subgroup           Description of Items
112           --               Alcoholic beverages
121           --               Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122           --               Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                               containing  tobacco substitutes)
525           --               Radioactive and associated materials
667           --               Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
                               unworked or worked
718         718.70             Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel
                               elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
                               nuclear reactors
728         728.43             Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.30             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
                               metals (except watches and watch cases)
                               and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
                               (including set gems)
971           --               Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
                               and concentrates)
4.    expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.    expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods,
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of
Page  10
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a
party); and
6.    in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied
from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                (expressed in Dollars)
      February 15, 2001                    7,515,000
      August 15, 2001                      7,775,000
      February 15, 2002                    8,050,000
      August 15, 2002                      8,330,000
      February 15, 2003                    8,620,000
      August 15, 2003                      8,920,000
      February 15, 2004                    9,230,000
      August 15, 2004                      9,555,000
      February 15, 2005                    9,885,000
      August 15, 2005                     10,230,000
      February 15, 2006                   10,590,000
      August 15, 2006                     10,960,000
      February 15, 2007                   11,340,000
      August 15, 2007                     11,735,000
      February 15, 2008                   12,145,000
      August 15, 2008                     12,570,000
      February 15, 2009                   13,010,000
      August 15, 2009                     13,465,000
      February 15, 2010                   13,935,000
      August 15, 2010                     14,240,000
      February 15, 2011                   14,925,000
      August 15, 2011                     15,445,000
      February 15, 2012                   15,980,000
      August 15, 2012                     16,540,000
      February 15, 2013                   17,115,000
      August 15, 2013                     17,715,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
      as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
      Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                             Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
         Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                            The interest rate
                                            (expressed as a
                                            percentage per annum)
                                            applicable to the Loan on
                                            the day of prepayment
                                            multiplied by:
      Not more than three years             0.18
            before maturity
      More than three years but             0.35
Page  11
            not more than six years
            before maturity
      More than six years but               0.65
            not more than 11 years
            before maturity
      More than 11 years but not            0.88
            more than 15 years
            before maturity
      More than 15 years before             1.00
            maturity
                               SCHEDULE 4
                       Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's
institutional capacity to implement the measures under the Program.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time
to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Enterprise Restructuring
      Provision of technical assistance to support the development of
enterprise restructuring demonstration cases and to prepare case studies
for management training.
Part B:     Critical Financial and Management Services
      Provision of technical assistance and goods to support the
development of a market-based financial and management services industry
capable of carrying out critical functions necessary in a market economy,
including professional associations, commercially oriented business
databases on private enterprises, and management training programs based
on Ukrainian case studies.
Part C:     Project Administration
      Provision of technical assistance and goods to strengthen government
organizations for privatization and post privatization support, including
SPF and UCPPS.
                                * * *
      The Project is to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                             SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods for the Project
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:      Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part B, goods
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Prior Review
      With respect to the first two contracts to be awarded under
procedures described in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part B of Section I of
this Schedule, and any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank each such
contract before the execution thereof.  Any modification to any such
contract shall be subject to  the procedures set forth in paragraph 3
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
2.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this
Part C, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants for the Project
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 6
                    Technical Assistance Project:
                       Implementation Program
1.    Project Implementation Unit
      For purposes of facilitating the implementation of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain the project implementation unit (PIU) within
SPF with staff, resources and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Monitoring and Evaluation
      The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
Page  13
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about October 15, 1997, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by December 1, 1997 or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank's views on the matter.
                             SCHEDULE 7
      Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to This Agreement
Section I.  Actions to Be Implemented Pursuant to Paragraph 4 (a) of
            Schedule 1 to This Agreement
1.    Liberalization of the Trade and Price Regime
      The Borrower has taken the following steps to establish and
maintain a properly competitive environment:
      (a)   elimination of all export duties;
      (b)   removal of indicative prices on all exports with the
exception of those covered by voluntary export restraints, anti-dumping
investigations, and international contingent agreements;
      (c)   rescission of the Special Export Regime;
      (d)   elimination of all registration requirements for exports,
with the exception of exports under voluntary export restraints,
international contingent agreements, and anti-dumping investigations;
      (e)   elimination of existing requirements concerning quality
certification for foreign-produced goods as applied at the import level,
and replacement thereof by a nondiscrimatory system of random checks at
wholesale or retail levels;
      (f)   elimination of all domestic price controls on artificial
monopolies, caps on trade mark-ups and profit margins on the correspond-
ing goods; and
      (g)   issuance of normative acts limiting price regulation to a
specific list of goods and services, and limitation of the functions of
the State Price Inspection for Control of Prices to monitoring only
those goods and services on said list.
2.    Privatization
      (a)   In the period starting with January 1, 1995, the Borrower
has privatized at least 3,500 medium/large-scale state owned enterprises,
by divesting at least seventy percent (70%) of the equity of such
enterprises.  Of such privatized enterprises, at least thirty percent
(30%) shall be enterprises that as of January 1, 1995, were classified by
the Cabinet of Ministers as part of the agro-industrial complex.
      (b)   The Borrower has implemented a methodology for privatization
of agro-industrial enterprises which: (i) has shortened the periods for
the corporatization and share subscription processes to a period
approximating the corresponding periods achieved for analogous enterprises
in other sectors; and (ii) ensures that shares in these enterprises
subject to transfer on preferential terms to primary producers of
Page  14
agricultural raw materials, shall be transferred to physical persons and
not to any collective structures.
3.    Development of the Capital Markets
      The Borrower has taken steps to facilitate the further development
of the capital markets by:
      (a)   ensuring the unobstructed transfer of existing registries of
shareholders to private and independent registrars, to the extent that
the development of the system of private independent registrars described
in the letter referred to in paragraph A of the Preamble to this Agreement
may so permit.  For purposes of this provision, a registrar shall be
considered "private and independent" when neither the Government nor any
issuer controls more than 20 percent of the registrar's equity each;
      (b)   adoption of the enactments governing the operation of the
capital markets, described in the letter referred to in Recital (A) in
the Preamble to this Agreement; and
      (c)   adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of a time schedule for
establishing the depository system for securities (DSS, as defined in
paragraph (d) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement).
Section II. Actions to Be Implemented Pursuant to Paragraph 4 (b) of
            Schedule 1 to This Agreement
1.    Privatization
      (a)   In the period starting with January 1, 1995, the Borrower
has privatized at least 5,000 medium/large-scale state owned enterprises,
by divesting at least seventy percent (70%) of the equity of such
enterprises. Of such privatized enterprises, at least thirty-five percent
(35%) shall be enterprises that as of January 1, 1995, were classified
by the Cabinet of Ministers as part of the agro-industrial complex.
      (b)   The Cabinet of Ministers has approved a list of at least 10
large monopoly enterprises and has initiated work on the development of
plans to privatize such enterprises.
2.    Capital Markets
      (a)   The Borrower has adopted enactments requiring compulsory
membership of market participants (intermediaries, brokers, dealers,
registrars, and depositories) in self-regulating organizations (SROs).
      (b)   The DSS has started operations.
                                 SCHEDULE 8
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of Portion A allocated
to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
Page  15
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
                  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in
                  the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                  justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the'
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of Portion A allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
Page  16
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
