Document of                     , E  COPY
The World Bank                      ALW
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1928b-UR
URUGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
May 25, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1, 1978)
Currency Unit = New Pesos (NUr$)
US$1.00       = NUr$5.5
NUr$1.00      = US$0.18
NUr$1,000,000 = US$181,818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)            = 10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2  = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.39 square miles   100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)               = 0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton  = 9.98 long ton
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COCAP     - Vocational Training Council
LATU      - Technological Laboratory of Uruguay
CONAE     - National Council of Education
SEPLACODI - National Planning Secretariat
UTU       - Labor University of Uruguay
ANCAP     - National Administration of Combustibles, Alcohol and Cement
UTE       - Electric Power Company
CREA      - Regional Agricultural Extension Cooperatives
CONICYT   - National Council of Scientific and Technological Research
CNTPI     - National Center of Industrial Technology and Productivity
INC       - National Colonization Institute
INAPE     - National Fish Institute
EEC       - European Economic Commission
ANP       - National Harbor Administration
AFE       - State Railways Administration
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING ....... ............ . ... ..... ........  1
The Environment .....1..................... ..........
Recent Economic Development and Future Prospects ...         1
Industrialization  ......... . ..  .     * * .     ....................... * .....*  ...  2
Bank Lending Strategy ...*.................**..            3
II.   APPRAISAL OF THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING COMPONENT   .....       4
A.   The Education System and Development
Strategy in Uruguay . ....................... .       4
Overview of the Education System ....     ..........    4
Human Resource Requirements of Development ....         7
Strategy for Expansion of Vocational Training .         9
B.   The Proposed Vocational Training Component ....        10
Objectives and Content ........... .............       10
Elements of the Project .......... ..............      11
Staff .........................................        13
Evaluation ..............................................  13
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan ....     .........   13
Cost Estimates ................. ...............       13
Financing Plan ..       ..............................  15
D.   Implementation and Disbursements ....     ..........   16
Project Administration .....      ...................  16
Professional and Technical Services .... .......       16
Implementation Schedule .....      ..................  17
Site ...........    ...............................    17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uruguay in September/October 1977. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Alberti
(vocational trainer), I. Matallana (architect), A. Stocker (economist),
J. Singh (loan officer), J. Collell (lawyer), R. Hemingway (technical educator,
consultant), M. Kamenetzky (technological development specialist, consultant),
and C. Cardenas (preinvestment fund specialist, consultant). A post-appraisal
mission visited Uruguay in March 1978 for a final review of project content,
costing and implementation procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Maintenance           ...................................          17
Procurement ..........................................            17
Disbursements        .................  ............... .         17
III.    APPRAISAL OF THE TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT                     18
A.   Development Strategy and Technological Choices                      18
Development Strategy              ..........................      18
An Overview of the Uruguayan Technological
Infrastructure ..... .................. ....          . . .     18
The Technological Laboratory of Uruguay (LATU)                    19
B.    The Proposed Technological Development Component                   20
Objectives and Content ......... a ...............                20
Criteria for Selection of Sub-Sectors and Industries 21
Criteria for Selection of Research Sub-Projects                   22
Reorganization and Staffing    ....................               23
Evaluation         .....................................          25
C.    Cost Estimates and Financing Plan ..............                   25
Cost Estimates  .......... ..  .................... .             25
Financing Plan ..................................                 26
D.    Implementation and Disbursements ............            ...      28
Project Administration            .........................       28
Professional and Technical Services  ............                 28
Implementation Schedule ................ . . .......              29
Site           ...........................................        29
Maintenance ....................................                  29
Procurement .        ...................................          29
Disbursements ......          ............................        30
IV.    BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, EVALUATION   .......                  30
Benefits           ............................................         30
Risks and Uncertainties  .....           ........................       32
Evaluation ..............................................               32
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....              ..........    32
Vocational Training Component  .......................                  32
Technological Development Component ....               .............    34



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
ANNEX I   Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1       Population, 1963-85
T-2       Commodity Exports, 1973-76
T-3       Exports by Destination, 1967-75
T-4       Comparative Education Indicators
T-5       Public Expenditures on Education, 1974-76
T-6       Output, Employment and Productivity, 1963 and 1975, 1985 Forecast
T-7       Employment, Training Needs and Supply, 1982
T-8       Output of the Vocational Training System, 1982
T-9       Technical Assistance for Vocational Training
T-10       Estimated Recurrent Expenditures and Unit Costs of
COCAP, 1982
T-11       Project Implementation Schedule for Vocational Training
T-12       Comparative Research and Development Indicators
T-13       LATU Facilities
T-14       Technical Assistance for Technological Development
T-15       LATU Program of Activities
T-16       Percentage Contribution of Selected Industries to GDP,
Exports and Employment
T-17       Income Statement and Balance Sheets of LATU for 1974-76
T-18       Financial Projections of LATU for 1977-85
T-19       Project Implementation Schedule for Technological Development
T-20       Capital Cost Estimates
T-21       Disbursement Schedule
C-1       Structure of the Education and Training System, 1977
C-2       Proposed Relationship of COCAP to Other Public and
Private Entities
C-3       Proposed Structure of the Vocational Training System (COCAP)
C-4       Proposed Structure of LATU
ANNEX 2   Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
May 25, 1978






I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
The Environment
1.01      Uruguay is a small, medium-income developing country which is
distinguishable both for its high level of urbanization and the fact that it
has achieved a comparatively even distribution of income and social services.
Some 83% of the 2.8 million (1975) inhabitants reside in cities and towns,
making this the most heavily urbanized country in Latin America (Table T-1).
About 53% of the urban population is concentrated in Montevideo, which has 20
times more people than the next largest city and is not only the administrative/
commercial capital of the country but also the center for some 80% of all
industrial activities. Total population has been growing slowly at only
0.6% annually during 1963/75; it is culturally homogeneous (mostly European
immigrants) and educational attainments are relatively high, as evidenced
by an adult literacy rate of 94% (1975). Progressive welfare legislation
and related social development policies introduced early in the present
century have resulted in Uruguay's having the most even pattern of income
distribution among all Latin American countries. Hence, although real per
capita incomes have declined in recent years, the incidence of abject poverty
is relatively low by regional standards.
1.02      Despite the notable accomplishments described above, the last
two decades of Uruguayan history have been marked by virtual economic stag-
nation as successive governments pursued policies which ignored the country's
fundamental dependence on its agricultural resources, in favor of an indus-
trialization strategy based on import substitution activities that had long
since reached the limits of economic efficiency. During most of the first
half of the twentieth century, the very prosperous and productive agricultural
sector was able to provide the base for high income levels and extensive
social benefits. In the post-World War II era, however, Uruguay encountered
increasing economic difficulties in the face of deteriorating terms of trade
for its agricultural exports and the growing inefficiency of its industrial
structure which relied on a strategy of import substitution. Income distri-
bution, consumption and protection of domestic industries were emphasized
at the expense of economic growth, investment and exports. By the late
1950s most import substitution possiblities had been exhausted, and the
result during the 1960s and early 1970s has been a gradual economic stag-
nation, declining per capita incomes, persistent inflation, periodic balance
of payments crises, and rising unemployment (6.7%, 1975) and underemployment.
Recent Economic Development and Future Prospects
1.03      In 1974, Uruguay suffered a very serious balance of payments
crisis triggered by the three-fold increase in the price of imported oil
and the closure of the EEC market to meat imports. Nevertheless, the
economy has begun to show signs of revitalization as a result of a
fundamental policy reorientation initiated in July 1974, when a new economic
team was appointed. Essentially, the economic team realized that long-term
solutions to the country's economic problems went beyond stabilization and



required reversal of the historic inward-looking economic policies and the
creation of an environment more conducive to expanding the export of Uruguay's
agriculture-based products. Since then, a combined stabilization and economic
reform program has been implemented, with the objectives of: (a) improving
resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater reliance on the
price mechanism, and (b) promoting and diversifying non-traditional exports
(i.e., those other than beef and wool). Domestic price controls were lifted,
interest rates on deposits and loans freed, the foreign trade and payments
systems liberalized, and nontraditional exports stimulated through a tax
rebate system.
1.04      Despite the continuation of generally unfavorable external factors,
the economy responded to the new program with an annual average GDP growth of
over 4% during 1974-76, compared with an annual decline of 0.5% during the
previous four years. Nontraditional exports, particularly leather and textile
manufactures, led the recovery; they generated more than 50% of total exports
in 1976 (Table T-2) and were instrumental in bringing about a remarkable
turnaround in the external sector in that year. The economy's fast response
to a consistent set of signals from the government and the price mechanism is
encouraging. If the sound fiscal, monetary and trade policies already insti-
tuted are continued, the Bank estimates that an annual economic growth rate of
4.5% during 1977-82 (cf., one percent during 1971-76) will be achievable, with
the expansion of both traditional and nontraditional exports providing the
main stimulus for growth. Price projections for Uruguay's exports and imports
indicate a notable terms of trade improvement after 1977, which should hold
until 1982.
Industrialization
1.05      The legacy of the import substitution policies of the past has been
an inefficient industrial sector, essentially devoted to the production of
final consumer goods for the small domestic market in the framework of a
highly protective and cumbersome system of external trade regulations.
Uruguay's size and its primarily agricultural resource endowment did not
permit the creation of larger intermediate goods industries. Import substi-
tution was extended even to activities where foreign exchange savings were
negligible, because domestic production was strongly dependent on imported
raw materials and intermediate goods. Moreover, the policy instruments
employed to foster import substitution (e.g., overvalued exchange rates,
import quotas, tariff protection and price controls) strangled the traditional
agricultural export sectors. The consequent shortages of foreign exchange
earnings resulted in low levels of raw material and capital goods imports and,
therefore, chronic capacity underutilization and obsolete equipment.
1.06      According to the most recent industrial census (1968), almost 95%
of the 29,370 industrial firms in Uruguay were small-scale enterprises (SSEs)
which employed nine persons or less. Some four percent of the firms employed
between 10-99 persons, and only 200 large-scale firms (0.7%) employed more
than 100 persons each. The SSEs accounted for 42% of the total industrial
labor force and produced about 20% of the industrial output, while the few
large-scale firms employed 35% of the industrial labor force and generated



50% of all industrial output. The principal sub-sectors, which together
accounted for more than one-half of all firms, employment and output, were
textiles, shoes and clothing, foods and transport equipment.
1.07      As a consequence of the new economic reform program (para. 1.03),
there has been a notable revival of manufacturing activity and exports since
1974.  As part of the reform package, an Industrial Promotion Law was
approved in 1974, creating the basis for stimulating capital investments
through credit assistance and tax relief. A new Foreign Investment Law,
designed to operate in conjunction with the Industrial Promotion Law,
accords foreign investments approximately the same treatment as domestic
investments, in addition to quite liberal profit remittance provisions.
Uruguay has also signed trade agreements with Brazil and Argentina, which
should encourage the export of manufactures to these countries. The net
effect of these policies has been an acceleration in the growth of manu-
facturing output from an average of -0.8% in 1971-73 to an estimated average
of 6% during 1974-76. The increase in foreign sales from non-traditional
exports (from US$99.4 million in 1974 to US$175 million in 1975) enabled
Uruguay to maintain its overall 1975 export earnings at the 1974 level,
despite the closure of the EEC market to beef imports (Tables T-2, T-3).
1.08      Looking toward the future, despite its lack of minerals and fuels,
Uruguay enjoys some advantages for an export-oriented development strategy
in the industrial sector. The country's comparative advantage lies in its
literate labor force, its good location between the large markets of
Argentina and Brazil, an adequate transport infrastructure and good
natural resource endowment. The full realization of this industrial export
potential will depend on the sustained implementation of a consistent set of
economic policies. A good start has been made, but further action will be
necessary to define a concrete long-term industrial strategy. Among the
most basic requirements is the need to identify more precisely the manu-
facturing sub-sectors where Uruguay's comparative advantage and market oppor-
tunities are strongest, so that credit policies, fiscal incentives and
other export promotion schemes can be concentrated in these areas. A re-
vitalization of the country's medium- and long-term financial structure will
also be necessary, and to this end the government has recently contracted a
number of external credits with bilateral and multilateral sources. A major
portion of these funds would be aimed at rehabilitating and renovating capital
equipment and machinery which would permit more efficient and up-to-date
production methods. Finally, special programs to upgrade manpower skills and
provide technological support services will be necessary to underpin the
government's long-term industrial strategy.
1.09      Bank Lending_Strateg.  Bank assistance for industrial development
in Uruguay has thus far included financing of a US$20.8 million loan
(Loan No. 1176-UR) for importation of capital goods needed for renovation and
expansion of plant capacity of industrial exporting enterprises and technical
assistance to aid in the formulation of sound sectoral policies and to
strengthen public agencies responsible for evaluation of industrial projects
and export promotion. The newly proposed project aims at enhancing the



- 4 -
competitiveness of Uruguayan exports by increasing labor productivity, improv-
ing product quality and promoting the use of technologies well suited to
the country's requirements. The project would include a national vocational
training program to meet the training needs of the export-oriented industrial
sector (including technical assistance for the preparation of an industrial
preinvestment facility), and a technological development component to expand
ongoing quality control services and assist the government and the private
sector in selecting appropriate technologies for the industrial sector. The
project would complement recent assistance to Uruguay from other external
agencies, including: (a) a US$5 million loan from USAID, approved in 1975,
for importation of capital goods for agro-industries; (b) a US$15 million
industrial credit loan from the Inter-American Development Bank, approved in
1977; (c) miscellaneous technical assistance to the industrial sector from
various bilateral and multilateral sources, estimated at about US$1.9 million
total during 1975-76; and (d) miscellaneous technical assistance for tech-
nological development from various bilateral and multilateral sources,
estimated at about US$1.3 million total during 1975-76.
II. APPRAISAL OF THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING COMPONENT
A.  The Education System and Development
Strategy in Uruguay
Overview of the Education System
2.01      Uruguay possesses one of the most developed education systems
in Latin America, having introduced free and universal access to all levels
early in the twentieth century. The structure of the formal system (Chart
C-1) presently comprises two years of pre-primary, six years primary, three
years common lower secondary, three years diversified or four years technical
upper secondary, and three to six years higher education (including teacher
training). Until 1973, four autonomous councils were directly responsible to
the Minister of Education for administration of primary, secondary, technical
and university education. Since passage of the 1973 Education Law, a National
Council of Education (CONAE) has been responsible to the Minister of Education
for the coordination of the four councils in the areas of budgeting, planning
and teacher training. Each council retains responsibility for elaborating
curricula and syllabi (under CONAE guidelines), administration and supervision
of schools, and appointment and supervision of teaching staff.
2.02      The 1975 census shows the overall adult literacy rate to be 94%,
including 95% in urban and 90% in rural areas. The gross primary school
participation rate 1/ was 93% for 6-12 year olds; the female participation
rate for primary education was 48%, which reflects the sex distribution of the
1/   Including overage students.  See Table T-4 for other Comparative
Education Indicators.



-5-
population. Retention rates were low (61% for primary, 41% for general
secondary and 18% for technical secondary), due more to the pressing need to
find employment than to unavailability of school places. Of those who success-
fully complete primary education, 83% go on to lower secondary education.
Public education expenditures amounted to 2.5% of GNP in 1975, representing
some 15% of total public expenditures (Table T-5). About 46% was devoted to
primary education, 22% to general secondary, 12% to technical secondary, and
20% to university education. Average unit recurrent costs were as follows:
Public Unit
Enrollments           Recurrent Costs
Level                       Total       Public         (US$ of 1975)
Primary /1                 395,000    315,362                132
General Secondary          144,497    113,108               169
Technical Secondary         38,948      37,698              275
University /2               26,150      26,150               -
/1   Includes pre-primary.
/2   Estimate includes all students enrolled, including part-time.  Therefore,
calculation of recurrent unit costs not meaningful.
2.03      Technical and Vocational Education.  Uruguay has a very extensive
formal technical education system: about 22% of all secondary students are
enrolled in technical programs (1976) and 18% of university students pursue
courses in engineering, natural sciences and agriculture (1973). In Latin
America, compared with Uruguay, only Argentina and Brazil have a higher ratio
of technicians per 10,000 population and only Argentina and Mexico have more
engineers and scientists per 10,000 population. Despite the considerable
effort devoted to technical education, however, the system has some notable
weaknesses: internal efficiency is low, linkages between the educational
institutions and prospective employers are weak, and the emphasis has been
almost exclusively on the preparation of young people for job entry with scant
attention paid to the skill upgrading needs of the adult labor force.
2.04      Almost all technical and vocational education in Uruguay is admin-
istered by the Council of Technical and Vocational Education (Labor University
of Uruguay - UTU). UTU has a network of 80 schools and 70 mobile centers,
which enrolled about 37,700 students in 1975; in addition, some 1,200 students
were enrolled in private technical schools. The majority are adolescents
studying formal courses oriented towards job entry at different levels, or
towards higher education. Less than 1% of UTU's students are adults
receiving skill upgrading training. UTU presently operates six kinds of
schools/programs, as summarized below:
(a)  lower secondary (3 years), with a heavier practical content
than in general lower secondary schools under the jurisdic-
tion of the Secondary Education Council, oriented to pre-
paration for upper technical or general secondary education
or to job entry at semi-skilled worker level;



- 6 -
(b) occupational post-primary (normally 2 years) for primary
school graduates and lower secondary drop-outs of 14 years
or more, oriented to job entry at skilled worker level or
to a terminal upper secondary technical education course;
(c) terminal upper secondary technical education (4 years) for
graduates of common lower secondary education or occupational
post-primary education, oriented to job entry at mid-technician
level;
(d) non-terminal upper secondary technical education (4 years)
oriented to job entry at mid-technician level or to univer-
sity studies;
(e) in-plant adult vocational training (variable duration),
oriented to skill upgrading at worker level; and
(f) miscellaneous short (1-3 weeks) courses on agriculture,
social promotion, home economics and the like, in the
interior of the country.
2.05      UTU suffers from major internal inefficiencies.  Drop-out rates in
1974 were 44%, 36%, 30%, 38% and 4% after each of the first five years of a
typical six-year lower and upper secondary program (e.g., only 18% of entering
students reach the sixth year). Total output in 1975 was 4,647, of whom 30%
were at technician, 25% commercial and 45% skilled worker level.
2.06      Of UTU's total US$12.9 million budget in 1976, 97% was devoted to
recurrent expenditures, of which 98% was for salaries. In recent years UTU
has lost many of its qualified instructors due to low monthly salaries (US$130-
US$275 for 20 hours equivalent of weekly teaching), which are equivalent to
about one-half of salaries paid by private industry to people with comparable
training. In 1975, only 14% of all instructors had been trained at the
technical teachers institute. Most instructors hold several other jobs, which
means that they normally lack time to prepare classes and keep abreast of
their fields. Budgetary shortages have also been a major factor in restricting
growth of non-formal vocational training.
2.07      UTU's external productivity is not thought to be high, although
this is difficult to ascertain in the absence of systematic tracer studies
or other feedback mechanisms. Despite some exceptions (e.g., the agricultural
courses started in 1975 at the Agricultural Teacher Training College in
Trinidad and the industrial training courses organized for the leather and
clothing industries in Montevideo), UTU does not generally maintain a close
relationship with employers. Courses tend to be long and are not structured
to teach skills according to specific needs.
2.08      UTU has paid scant attention to upgrading needs of both the rural
and urban adult labor force. Despite the importance of the agricultural
sector, output from UTU schools at technician level was only 76 (1975) and at



- 7 -
skilled worker level only 615 (1977). Some additional farmer training is
being undertaken in an uncoordinated fashion by the private Regional Agricul-
tural Extension Cooperatives (CREA), the public National Colonization
Institute (INC) and the Ministry of Agriculture. With regard to industry, 266
workers received training in 1975 through UTU's in-plant courses, and public
enterprises trained another 571 persons in their own in-plant schemes.
However, no strategy exists for the creation of an infrastructure of
supervisors/instructors in enterprises, and there has been no effort at
supervisor training. Although UTU has provided some advice and prepared
manuals for enterprises interested in establishing training schemes, it lacks
the financial and technical capability to satisfy the growing demand for such
services. In the area of management and safety, some 1,290 persons received
training through the National Center for Technology and Productivity and the
State Insurance Bank.
Human Resource Requirements of Development (Tables T-6 and T-7)
2.09      The prevailing levels of unemployment and underemployment in
Uruguay are the result of nearly two decades of economic stagnation: the
agricultural sector continued to release workers to the cities at the same
time that industry was unable to produce enough job opportunities. This
resulted in two phenomena: (a) heavy net emigration of 200,000 people
(mainly 15-24 year olds) during 1963/75, equivalent to 20% of the labor
force and 7% of total population in 1975; and (b) excessive employment by
the public sector of unskilled and semi-skilled personnel, now equivalent
to about 23% of the total labor force (19% in the central government and
4% in autonomous public enterprises).
2.10      Precise employment data are scarce in Uruguay, but according to
a sample of the 1975 census, 37% of the total population were engaged in
active employment, 2% were unemployed but had previous work experience, and
0.6% were persons looking for employment for the first time. This yields
an active labor force of 1,094,400 persons and an unemployment rate of 6.7%.
The labor force participation rate of men was 70% and 27% for women. The
latest household survey for the Department of Montevideo (45% of total
population) shows a higher unemployment rate of 10.8% for the second half of
1977. About one-half of the unemployed were less than 25 years old;
unemployment was fairly evenly distributed among the occupations, with
construction workers being the hardest hit at 15%.
2.11      Despite the seemingly ample supply of labor in Uruguay, some indus-
tries, particularly the dynamic exporting ones, are experiencing a shortage of
industry-specific skills. A sample survey of 24 exporting firms, organized
in March 1977 by the Planning Office and the Chamber of Industries with
assistance from a Bank mission, showed that 96% of the firms interviewed had
difficulty in finding adequately trained workers and were willing to pay
higher wages in order to attract such workers. The coexistence of high unem-
ployment with supply shortages of certain skills is partly the result of a
lack of feedback from the labor market to the training system, as well as the



- 8 -
heavy emigration of skilled workers and technicians. Some 95% of the firms
interviewed in the survey expressed a willingness to participate in training
programs in schools or factories, especially if private enterprise could play
an active role in managing the scheme.
2.12      The agricultural and fisheries sector presently accounts for about
15% of GDP and directly employs 15% of the labor force. Of nearly 16 million
ha. suitable for agricultural production, 94% are pastures and only 6% are
used for crops. The government's development strategy envisages expanded
crop production based on a mixed crop/livestock rotation system designed to
raise productivity, prevent soil erosion and impro-ve soil fertility. This
will entail new techniques and increased mechanization. Although UTU has
offered some courses for rural workers, output has been small in relation to
the size of the agricultural labor force (158,100); upgrading requirements
are estimated at 7,500 rural workers annually during 1978-82 (principally
for operation and maintenance of agricultural machinery). With regard to
marketing of agricultural and fish products, refrigeration plants are playing
an increasingly important role, but Uruguayan workers are not well trained
in the basic concepts of refrigeration plant operation and maintenance.
Total annual training requirements for skilled and semi-skilled workers are
estimated at 45 persons. With regard to agricultural technicians, although
the output of UTU schools is quite low, it appears to satisfy present demand
since ranchers and farmers in Uruguay are only gradually becoming accustomed
to employing such personnel.
2.13      Uruguay's industrial sector generates about 25% of GDP and provides
employment to 18% of the labor force. Obsolete equipment, archaic management
methods, low labor skills and outdated technology are the legacies of the
prolonged protection and lack of competition of the import substitution period
(Chapter I). Implementation of the government's new export-led growth strategy
requires an updating of skills and technologies if Uruguayan manufacturers
are to survive in competitive world markets. The textiles and garment indus-
tries together employ about 13% of the industrial labor force and account for
5% of total exports; and the leather industry employs 9% of the industrial
labor force and provides 20% of exports. Annual job entry training needs are
2,240 and 1,555 persons, respectively, during 1978-85. 1/ The upgrading needs
amount to about 1,965 and 1,365, respectively, over the same period.
2.14      The services sector contributes about 60% of GDP and 61% of the
labor force. More than one-third of service employees work for the public
sector, which generated practically all additional job opportunities during
1963-75. Nevertheless, many of the autonomous state enterprises (e.g., rail-
ways, ports and power) experience manpower problems. In general, low salaries
result in shortages of high-level staff with consequent weaknesses in internal
organization and supervision of low-skill level workers. Existing ad hoc
training activities are not responding to the nature of the basic problem.
1/   Assumes annual production increases of 10%, productivity increases of
3%, and attrition rates of 3%.



-9-
Strategy for Expansion of Vocational Training
2.15      To provide the training services which are essential for the
successful implementation of its new economic program, in early 1977 the
government established a working group of public and private representatives
(Ministries of Education and Labor, National Planning Secretariat and
Chamber of Industries) to prepare a plan for the development of a national
vocational training system. The working group, with technical assistance
financed under Loan 1176-UR, diagnosed Uruguay's most pressing training
requirements and proposed the creation of an organization to provide that
training.
2.16      The organization to be established would be called the Vocational
Training Council (COCAP). It would be linked to the Ministry of Education,
functioning as a second Council parallel to CONAE (Chart C-2). CONAE would
continue to oversee the formal (including secondary and post-secondary
technical) education system of Uruguay, pursuant to the 1973 Education Law
(para. 2.01), while COCAP would assume jurisdiction over all non-formal urban
and rural vocational programs, primarily oriented to adults in need of short-
term skill training to meet specific job requirements. Hence, CONAE would
arrange for the transfer from UTU to COCAP of its ongoing adult rural and
industrial vocational training and in-plant training services, and would also
make available to COCAP about 20 of UTU's experienced instructors and course
programmers in order to assist COCAP in its start-up operations. The govern-
ment provided assurances that this transfer will be effected by January 1,
1979.
2.17      COCAP's structure would include a Board of Directors, industrial
advisory groups, and a full-time executing unit (Chart C-3). To ensure that
COCAP becomes an effective institution capable of responding quickly and
flexibly to priority training needs, provision has been made for broad
representation of all interested parties, including the private sector, in its
management. The Board of Directors would include one representative each of
the Ministers of Labor, Industry and Energy, Agriculture and Fishing, and the
National Planning Secretariat, and two representatives each of the Minister
of Education, the Chamber of Industries and private agricultural institutions.
The Directors of CONAE and UTU would participate in the Board as the two
representatives of the Minister of Education (with the Director of CONAE
chairing the Board), and this should facilitate the coordination which is
always desirable between the formal and non-formal education systems in any
country. However, in all other respects, COCAP would be administratively,
technically and financially independent of CONAE and UTU.
2.18      Basically, the Board of COCAP would determine national training
policies, approve training plans, supervise the execution of training
activities, studies and related services, and administer financial resources
for training. The Board would be assisted in this effort by part-time, ad hoc
industrial advisory groups for each industry in which training is to be
offered (e.g. textiles, clothing, leather, refrigeration). These groups would
comprise representatives of the training system and the industrial or



- 10 -
agricultural sector. In many cases, the representatives of the employers may
be the same as those who participate in the industrial advisory groups which
would work with LATU, although the decision would be up to the employers'
groups concerned. Finally, a full-time executing unit, responsible to the
Board, would plan, program, implement and evaluate the training services which
the Board elects to provide.
2.19      The legal establishment of COCAP would take place in three stages.
A decree creating COCAP, with the aforementioned structure, membership and
functions will be issued. However, in accordance with the Uruguayan
Constitution, such a decree could not endow COCAP with either legal personality
or the right to long-term funding, attributes which can only be obtained via a
full law. Therefore, as a special condition of effectiveness of the loan,
legislation would be promulgated which grants COCAP legal personality and an
adequate and stable long-term financing system. Finally, promulgation of all
necessary regulations to implement the COCAP legislation, and the signing of a
contract acceptable to the Bank between COCAP and the government covering all
important aspects of project execution, would be conditions of disbursement of
the vocational training component of the proposed loan.
B. The Proposed Vocational Training Component
Objectives and Content
2.20      The proposed project would assist the Government of Uruguay in
establishing a national vocational training system to provide the manpower
training which is essential for the implementation of its economic develop-
ment strategy. Specifically, the project would finance the physical facili-
ties and technical assistance necessary for the new Vocational Training
Council - COCAP (para. 2.16) to begin operations, including:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of one new vocational
training center in Montevideo with 320 trainee places,
adequate to provide training opportunities for about 2,000
workers annually;
(b) provision of six mobile training units to offer training to
about 6,400 persons annually in agricultural occupations;
(c) provision of 9.75 man-years of specialist services and
2.5 man-years of fellowships to establish in-plant training
programs for about 1,300 supervisors and 6,500 workers
annually in the major public utilities, services and
manufacturing enterprises;
(d) provision of additional technical assistance, comprising
11 man-years of specialist services and 7 man-years of
fellowships, in support of the general institutional
development of the new vocational training system and to
prepare a preinvestment studies fund; and



- 11 -
(e) financing (US$310,000) of surveys to identify training
needs in other priority sectors to be served in future
stages of development of the vocational training system.
2.21      When the facilities financed by the project are in full operation
in 1982, about 16,200 skilled and semi-skilled workers and supervisors woluld
receive training annually (Table T-8). The vast majority (14,860) would be
already employed adults in upgrading courses, with only about 8% (1,330)
being new entrants to the labor force. Several different delivery modes
would be used in accordance with the particular characteristics and re-
quirements of each sector, including off-the-job training in a vocational
training center (2,000 workers annually), mobile training (6,400) and in-plant
training (7,800). Consistent with the government's industrial development
strategy of stimulating the growth of the non-traditional export sectors, the
training system would focus initially on the needs of the textiles, shoes and
leather, and garment industries, as well as specific export-oriented agricul-
tural and export-supporting service (e.g., utilities and infrastructure) enter-
prises. Thereafter, the system would broaden its scope to provide manpower
training as well for other priority economic activities.
Elements of the Project
2.22      Vocational Training Center.  The proposed project would provide for
the construction, furnishing and equipping of a new building in Montevideo,
which would serve as both the national headquarters of COCAP and as a training
center (320 trainee places). The facilities would include 12 workshops,
5 classrooms, one library, one instructional materials production shop, and
administrative areas. Courses would be offered during daytime and evenings
to 2,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers and plant supervisors annually in
the textiles, shoes and leather goods, garment, and refrigeration trades.
These courses were selected on the basis of investigations by the working
group and industrial advisory groups which were responsible for designing the
new vocational training system (para. 2.15). Other courses would be based on
similar labor market studies.
2.23      All courses would be based on occupational analysis and would vary
in duration from 24 to 800 hours. Flexibility would be ensured through the
use of short, self-contained training modules which would permit trainees
to enter the system at the point appropriate to their qualifications and
return for further training at later stages in their careers. To encourage
workers and employers to take advantage of training programs, a system of
certification would be introduced for common skilled occupations: national
standards would be established, workers tested and certificates awarded.
These course development and certification tasks would be the responsibility
of the Technical and Planning Department of COCAP, to which some of UTU's
experienced personnel would be transferred (para. 2.28). The government
provided assurances that by January 1, 1980, the Ministry of Labor would
assist in the placement and follow-up of COCAP's graduates, through its
Employment Service (which is expected to become operational in 1978).



- 12 -
2.24      Mobile Training Units.  These units would include six vehicles
and sets of equipment for rural training. The program would be administered
from UTU's Agricultural Teacher Training College in Trinidad. The government
gave assurances that COCAP would appoint a rural training coordinator (based
in Trinidad) and six regional deputy coordinators by January 1, 1979. Courses
of one to three weeks' duration would be offered in 11 different occupations
to about 6,400 rural workers annually: tractor repairing; farm equipment
maintenance; soil preparation, pruning and grafting; forestation; cattle
insemination; gestation diagnosis for cattle; sheep insemination; sheep
shearing; milk production; and apiculture. A tentative training plan showing
the disposition of the equipment, instructors and courses was prepared during
appraisal. Specific regional training needs and the itineraries of the mobile
units would be determined by the six regional deputy coordinators in consul-
tation with the agronomists of the National Colonization Institute, the Plan
Agropecuario, the Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the
farming enterprises.
2.25      In-Plant Training.  The in-plant training program to be developed
under the proposed project would provide a comprehensive range of services
to enterprises in both the diagnosis of training needs and the implementa-
tion of on-the-job training programs. About 1,300 training officers,
supervisors and foremen would be trained annually in short courses in
instructional techniques, human relations and industrial safety (and where
necessary technical subjects) to prepare them for participation in subse-
quent routine on-the-job training of about 6,500 workers annually. In
particular, the training needs of the public ports, railways, electric power,
petroleum and fishing agencies, as well as several large private manufactur-
ing enterprises, would be met through in-plant training. The government
gave assurances that the small in-plant training service presently operated by
UTU would be transferred to COCAP by January 1, 1979.
2.26      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance to be provided under
the proposed project is summarized below, with further details set forth in
Table T-9:
(a) 3 man-years of specialist services in the planning and
organization of vocational training and supervisor training;
(b) 9-3/4 man-years of specialist services and 2-1/2 man-years
of fellowships for in-plant training and industrial safety;
(c) 3 man-years of specialist services and 7 man-years of
fellowships for textiles and leather training;
(d) 2 man-years of specialist services for agricultural training;
and
(e) 3 man-years of specialist services for evaluation, analysis
of training costs, preparation of a preinvestment fund,
certification and trade testing.



- 13 -
The government gave assurances that the specialists would be selected on the
basis of criteria and employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
the fellowship program would be acceptable to the Bank; and suitable counter-
parts would be appointed to work with all specialists.
2.27      Surveys.  The proposed project would include US$310,000 to finance
training needs surveys. The objective would be to identify priority sectors/
industries which would require the manpower training services of COCAP
in future. The surveys would be conducted jointly by COCAP and the Ministry
of Labor. The government gave assurances that the plans for each survey
(including costs, terms of refcrence, and implementation program) would
be submitted to the Bank for approval prior to the initiation of the survey.
Staff
2.28      To establish COCAP, about 35 full-time professionals, 24 agricul-
tural instructors and 22 industrial instructors, as well as supporting staff,
would be required by full operation in 1982. The government gave assurances
that some 20 instructors and course programmers would be transferred from
existing UTU programs to COCAP by January 1, 1979, and the remainder would
be new appointments. All staff would receive training through working as
counterparts to the technical assistance specialists, under fellowships
financed under the project, or through participating in training courses
organized by the specialists. The legislation (para. 2.19) creating COCAP
would provide for the establishment of appropriate salary scales and conditions
of service to ensure the recruitment and retention of qualified staff.
Evaluation
2.29      A system for evaluating the external and internal effectiveness
of the training activities to be financed under the proposed project was
developed during appraisal. The system focuses on production and wage in-
increases attributable to the training programs in the relevant sectors and
on unit training costs. The government gave assurances that it would begin
to implement the system by July 1, 1979, and would make available to the Bank
for review annual evaluation reports during 1980-82. Also, within six months
of the Closing Date of the loan account, the government would send to the Bank
a full completion report providing an assessment of the project, its results
and the experience gained during implementation.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
Cost Estimates
2.30      The total cost of the vocational training component of the proposed
project is estimated at US$4.9 million, as summarized below. Further details
are provided in Annex 1, Table T-20.



- 14 -
NUr$ ('000) 1/                         US$ ('000)
Items               Local     Foreign      Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Vocational Training
Center                5,325.7    3,390.7    8,716.4        968.3      616.5    1,584.8
Mobile Training Units      32.4       611.6       644.0         5.9     111.2       117.1
Technical Assistance      345.4    6,558.8    6,904.2          62.8   1,192.5    1,255.3
Studies                   562.7    1,142.3    1,705.0         102.3     207.7       310.0
Project
Administration        2,291.3       308.0    2,599.3        416.6      56.0       472.6
Base Cost
Estimates 2/       8,557.5   12,011.4   20,568.9    1,555.9   2,183.9    3,739.8
Contingencies
- Physical (10%)    855.8    1,201.2    2,057.0         155.6      218.4       374.0
- Price (19.6%)   1,924.5    2,512.4    4,436.9         349.9      456.8       806.7
TOTAL COST        11,337.8   15,725.0   27,062.8    2,061.4   2,859.1    4,920.5
1/   US$1.00=NUr$5.5 as of April 1, 1978.
2/   Base cost estimate expressed in prices as of April 1, 1978.
2.31      Civil works costs were estimated on the basis of actual bids for the
recent construction of technical education institutions in Uruguay having
comparable workshop facilities.  Space standards reflect detailed schedules of
accommodation consistent with curricula requirements, and they are similar to
standards used in other Bank-financed vocational training projects in Latin
America. The estimatid cost of construction (excluding site development)
averages US$228 per m of gross floor area. No provision was made for the
cost of land acquisition, since an acceptable site already belonging to the
government would be used (para. 2.41); site development costs were estimated
at only 8% of civil works costs, as most basic services are already available
at the site. Architectural designs and construction supervision would be
contracted with consultant firms acceptable fo the Bank; the costs of pro-
fessional services were based on prevailing fee scales in Uruguay established
by the local architectural and engineering associations. Equipment costs were
estimated for each teaching and administrative area, and furniture costs were
estimated at 10% of the value of construction. Imported equipment and furni-
ture would be exempt from customs duties, and are costed accordingly. Detailed
equipment and furniture lists would be compiled during the design stage and
presented for Bank approval prior to procurement. Technical assistance costs
were estimated at US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and US$12,000
per man-year of fellowships.



- 15 -
2.32      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimate
for:  (a) unforeseen physical factors averaging 10% of the base cost esti-
mate; and (b) expected annual price increases above the base cost estimate
plus physical continigencies for: construction (including civil and site works
and professional services), technical assistance and project administration
averaging 8% during 1978, 7.5% during 1979, and 7% per year during 1980-82;
and for furniture and equipment averaging 7% during 1978, 6.5% during 1979,
and 6% annually during 1980-82. Total contingencies amount to US$1.2 million,
equal to about 32% of the base cost estimate (Table T-20).
2.33      The total foreign exchange cost of the vocational training component
of the proposed project is estimated at US$2.9 million, representing 58%
of the total cost of the component. Foreign exchange costs were calculated
as follows: equipment and technical assistance, 95%; studies, 67%; furniture,
40%; civil works, 18%; professional fees, 30%; project administration, 10%,
and site works, 8% (Table T-20).
Financing Plan
2.34      The total gcapital cost of the vocational training component of the
proposed project would be met by Bank financing of US$2.9 million and a US$2.0
million budgetary contribution from the central government, as follows (in
US$'000):
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982   1978-82
Bank Loan                     -    553.1    721.9  1,047.1    577.9   2,900.0
Government Contribution   55.6    346.1    695.7    785.7    137.4   2,020.5
TOTAL                 55.6    899.2  1,417.6  1,832.8    715.3   4,920.5
The government gave assurances that it would make sufficient and timely
budgetary allocations to meet the annual requirement for counterpart funds to
implement the vocational training component of the proposed project.
2.35      The recurrent costs generated by the vocational training component
of the proposed project would reach US$0.9 million (1977 prices) annually by
1982, when full enrollment capacity is reached (Table T-10). Costs per
trainee hour of instruction are estimated at US$0.91, which is reasonable
compared with the costs of similar training schemes in other Latin American
countries. By way of comparison, these costs are equivalent to about 7.3% of
UTU's total annual recurrent expenditures in 1977. The legislation establish-
ing COCAP (para. 2.19), would provide for an acceptable long-term financing
system, based primarily on earmarking of budgetary funds to cover the expected
recurrent costs. The government gave assurances during negotiations that it
would take, or cause COCAP to take, all necessary measures to supplement the
aforementioned revenues if they prove inadequate to meet COCAP's annual
operating costs.



- 16 -
D. Implementation and Disbursements
Project Administration
2.36      The vocational training component of the proposed project would be
administered by the Vocational Training Council - COCAP (paras. 2.15-2.19, and
Chart C-3). The Director of COCAP's full-time executing unit would perform
the normal functions of a project director, with overall responsibility for
planning, organizing, controlling and monitoring project implementation. The
Director would be assisted by a full-time project implementation team, com-
prising an architect, a vocational training specialist, an accountant and a
procurement officer, as well as essential supporting staff. Appointment
of a Director and acceptable principal staff of the project implementation
team would be a condition of disbursement for the vocational training com-
ponent of the project. Other departments of COCAP would also assist in
project implementation, from time to time, as necessary. The salaries of the
full-time project implementation team and related operating expenses, estimated
at US$472,600, have been included under project administration costs. Also
included are the costs of other short-term consultants who may be required to
assist in equipment and furniture procurement, curriculum development and
preparation of instructional materials. The government gave assurances that
COCAP would maintain separate accounts for all project implementation expendi-
tures; these accounts would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the
Bank and the audit reports would be made available to the Bank for review.
2.37      In the interests of promoting maximum coordination and flow of
information between the vocational training and technological development
components of the proposed project, the National Planning Secretariat
(SEPLACODI) would designate staff responsible for monitoring the respective
components. The government gave assurances that SEPLACODI would appoint at
least one such liaison officer for vocational training by January 1, 1979.
The Director of COCAP's full-time executing unit would be responsible for
liaison with the SEPLACODI staff.
Professional and Technical Services
2.38      Consultants acceptable to the Bank would be retained for all
architectural and engineering design work and for construction supervision.
An adequate number of qualified consulting firms are available in Uruguay
for this purpose. The cost of the fees, estimated at US$102,100 has been
included under professional services in the total project cost.
2.39      The government gave assurances that ad hoc technical committees
would be established as needed by COCAP to review architectural designs,
equipment and furniture lists and specifications and to certify that they meet
economic and functional standards and costs and the educational objectives of
the project, before forwarding such documents for Bank approval. These
committees would probably have the same membership as the industrial advisory
groups established to assist COCAP in determining sub-sectoral training needs
and programs (para. 2.18).



- 17 -
Implementation Schedule
2.40      For the purpose of assisting the executing unit in planning,
organizing and controlling project execution, a preliminary implementation
schedule was prepared during appraisal (Table T-11). COCAP would update the
schedule regularly and use it as a project implementation and monitoring tool.
Site
2.41      An acceptable site for the vocational training center, presently
belonging to the National Education Council (CONAE), has been identified in
Montevideo.  The government gave2assurances during negotiations that suffi-
cient land (a minimum of 3,000 m ) would be transferred to COCAP before
the start of design work. The cost of demolition of a warehouse presently
occupying the site has been included under project construction costs.
Maintenance
2.42      The government gave assurances during negotiations that it would
adequately maintain and repair all equipment, furniture and buildings provided
under the project. To that effect, COCAP would prepare a maintenance handbook
and include in its annual budget a sum for maintenance equivalent to at least
1% of the replacement cost of the buildings during the first four years of
operation and 1.5% thereafter, and 5% of the cost of equipment and furniture.
Procurement
2.43      Contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines, except that furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
into packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. A maximum of US$120,000 in the aggregate
(equivalent to about 15% of the estimated total cost of furniture and equip-
ment) would be procured in this manner. Domestic furniture and equipment
manufacturers tendering under international procedures would receive a margin
of preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF cost of competitive imports
or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
2.44      Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Since the estimated total cost of construction of the vocational
training center is only US$940,000, foreign contractors are not likely to
participate, although they would not be precluded from bidding.
Disbursements
2.45      The proposed loan of US$2.9 million (for the vocational training
component) equivalent to 58% of the total cost of US$4.9 million, would
finance the foreign exchange component of US$2.9 million. The loan would
finance: (a) 20% of total expenditures for construction (including civil and



- 18 -
site works and professional services); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imports or 85% of expenditures for locally procured furniture and equipment;
and (c) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance and studies. The
loan would be disbursed over a period of 4-1/2 years through December 31,
1982, with construction completed by June 30, 1982 (see para. 3.37 and Table
T-21).
III. APPRAISAL OF THE TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
A. Development Strategy and Technological Choices
Development Strategy
3.01      Until recent years, industrial development in Uruguay was based
on import substitution, with heavy protection for domestic firms (Chapter I).
The government's new export-oriented industrialization strategy entails
the promotion of non-traditional industries, which must now compete inter-
nationally for foreign markets. Not only is there the need for changes in the
type and quantity of goods produced, but also in the product designs, pro-
duction techniques and channels of distribution which are used. This strategy
necessitates the development of an adequate indigenous capability in the areas
of technological research, dissemination of information, and technical
assistance to entrepreneurs.
3.02      Uruguay needs mainly to develop the technological research
capability to analyze and select from amongst existing technological alter-
natives and to make appropriate adaptations to local conditions. Domestic
firms also require technical assistance and information services to help them
in analyzing production problems and identifying possible technological
solutions and potential markets. This is particularly important in the
Uruguayan context because of the small size of the average industrial enter-
prise; most companies cannot afford to maintain their own research and testing
facilities and personnel. Technological research may also be needed to
develop new technologies in cases for which none of the available tech-
nological alternatives offers an adequate solution. Such cases may arise from
the exploitation of indigenous raw materials from the Uruguayan flora, fauna
and mineral resources or from particular problems related to the Uruguayan
scale of production.
An Overview of the Uruguayan Technological Infrastructure
3.03      At present, Uruguay has only a very limited domestic capability
in product and process development. Although some lines of technical and
managerial assistance have been developed, these serve mainly the already
established large- and medium-sized industries and certain agricultural
sub-sectors. There are no public or private organizations performing
preinvestment studies, technological research and technical assistance, on
the scale needed, for the non-traditional industrial sectors.



- 19 -
3.04      Uruguay's scientific and technological infrastructure consists
of a loose network of institutions scattered among the Ministry of Industry
(National Center of Industrial Technology and Productivity; Technological
Laboratory of Uruguay), Ministry of Agriculture (National Fish Institute
and various services for the agricultural sector (such as grain, milk, meat
and grape production), Ministry of Education (Center for Scientific, Technical
and Economic Documentation of the National Library; National Council of
Scientific and Technological Research; National University), some laboratories
within public enterprises (ANCAP; UTE) and the private sector (Uruguayan
Institute of Technical Norms; Uruguayan Wool Secretariat). Unfortunately,
private entrepreneurs and administrators of public enterprises do not maintain
close links with academic research/scientific institutions, and the National
Council of Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has neither the
power nor the financial resources to foster improved communications between
the two groups. The National Center of Industrial Technology and Productivity
(CNTPI) is oriented mainly towards management training and industrial sector
studies. With the exception of the Technological Laboratory of Uruguay
(LATU), the other institutions are all either task- or enterprise-specialized,
or they deal mainly with the agricultural sector. Only LATU is a multi-purpose,
industry-oriented public institute, providing mainly quality control services
but also starting to perform some technological research, technical assistance
and market information services for the industrial sector.
3.05      Table T-12 provides some indicators to compare Uruguay's human
(engineers, scientists and technicians) and financial resources in the
technological field with those of other countries (United States, New Zealand,
Singapore, Spain, Mexico, Chile, Peru, Argentina and Brazil).
The Technological Laboratory of Uruguay (LATU)
3.06      LATU was established in 1965, primarily to perform quality control
services for exports benefitting from drawback incentives and technical
analysis of permits for temporary imports which are to be incorporated into
exports. It is quite efficient in performing those services, and it has also
recently developed limited technological research and technical assistance
activities for some industries (dairy products, fish, fruits and vegetables,
wines, and leather and leather garments).
3.07      LATU is a semi-autonomous institution of the Ministry of Industry.
It has established close relationships with the private sector through
the Chamber of Industries, which is represented in its Board of Directors.
The Chamber of Industries' representative acts as Vice President of LATU.
The President is appointed by the Minister of Industry, who also approves
LATU's yearly budget and statement of accounts. LATU's income is derived
almost exclusively from three taxes: (a) 0.3% of the value of exports
submitted to quality control; (b) 1% of the CIF value of goods temporarily
imported as inputs into manufactured exports; and (c) 1% of the CIF value
of industrial equipment introduced under tax-exempt promotional measures and
whose use and final destination is controlled by LATU. LATU is also permitted
to charge for services other than those mandated in the decrees establishing
the aforementioned taxes. It may, for example, price its technical assistance



- 20 -
services when they are not directly related to the solving of problems that
prevent the export of a given lot of products. This pricing criterion is
not established by law, but has simply evolved in practice by agreement with
the industrialists represented on LATU's Board. Income from such services
is still very limited, representing only 0.7% of total income from taxes
(1976).
3.08      LATU is now operating from a readapted building in downtown Montevideo.
In addition, it recently purchased a second site in the suburbs, which will be
used for future expansion. With regard to staffing, LATU began with only two
persons; there are now 15 professionals, 14 technicians and 20 auxiliary
personnel. Of the 15 professionals, 12 have been trained abroad.
3.09      Although LATU does not presently have the human or physical infra-
structure to engage actively in technological research and technical assist-
ance and market information services to Uruguayan industries, it does provide
the best institutional framework within which to develop such a technological
capability. Because of its quality control functions, LATU is in a good
position to know first-hand about the problems of the export-oriented indus-
trial sectors. Its revenue base is sound, and finally, there are economies
of scale to be realized in using the same general chemical and physical
laboratories for routine quality control analysis, technological research,
and technical assistance.
B. The Proposed Technological Development Component
Objectives and Content
3.10      The proposed project would assist the Government of Uruguay to
develop a domestic capability in the areas of technological research, dis-
semination of information and technical assistance to entrepreneurs, in
support of its export-oriented industrial development strategy. Specifically,
the project would assist the Technological Laboratory of Uruguay - LATU
(paras. 3.06-3.09) to improve and expand its ongoing quality control and
routine analytic testing, as well as to develop new capabilities to evaluate
technological alternatives, perform applied research to adapt existing tech-
nologies to local conditions, organize market information services and provided
technical assistance to local enterprises. The project would focus mainly on
the needs of the principal exporting sub-sectors (food, textiles, leather
goods and process industries), with a view to improving their competitiveness
in world markets. The proposed project would finance the following:
(a)  the construction, furnishing and equipping of one general
chemical and microbiological laboratory, four sector specific
laboratories, five pilot plants, a materials testing         2
laboratory and ancillary facilities (approximately 7,000 m
total area);



- 21 -
(b)  the furnishing and equipping of a metrological laboratory and
facilities for information, industrial design and packaging
services;
(c)  the provision of mechanical and electrical equipment for LATU
buildings; and
(d)  related technical assistance, including 12 man-years of
specialist services and 24.5 man-years of fellowships.
3.11      The equipment to be provided for the metrologi,caland materials
testing laboratories would help LATU improve and expand its technological
capabilities and quality control services. The metrological equipment to be
provided under the project will complement the equipment being installed with
the support of the Organization of American States (OAS), to serve many
different industrial sub-sectors in standardizing and controlling the measure-
ment apparatus. The materials testing laboratory included in the project
would permit LATU to extend quality control and technical assistance to the
construction sector, which plays an important economic role in Uruguay (con-
struction represents 4.8% of GDP and 4.5% of employment--see Table T-6). The
output of the construction sector is expected to grow from US$151 million in
1975 to US$211 million in 1985 (in 1975 prices). It is estimated that about
15% of construction output, measured in terms of costs, would require the
services of the materials testing laboratory. The cost of these services
amounts to about 1.5% of the construction costs. The potential revenues for
these services in 1985 are estimated at about US$0.5 million. This is on
the basis that adequate regulations regarding quality control of construction
would be issued (at present the construction industry is not paying any taxes
earmarked for LATU). The amount allocated for equipment for this laboratory
(US$1.2 million) would only be disbursed after a thorough assessment of demand
and the preparation of suitable equipment lists. Furthermore, if, at that
time the allocation for materials testing equipment in the proposed loan
appears too large, the Bank would have the right to cancel the excess amounts
after having assessed the requirements of other parts of the project. The
government has also undertaken to ensure that this component would not dupli-
cate other facilities, and to foster cooperation between LATU and other public
and private institutions in the country, including the National University,
in sharing materials testing equipment. Assurances on the foregoing were
obtained from the government during-negotiationus.
3.12      Although the proposed loan will not finance the construction costs
of LATU's new buildings, these buildings will be constructed on the basis of
architectural plans acceptable to the Bank. This would ensure that the
laboratory and pilot plant equipment financed under the project will be
adequately accommodated, and that the mechanical and electrical equipment
(e.g., heating and air conditioning machinery, emergency power generator, main
transformer and switch gear) for these buildings financed under the proposed
loan meet acceptable standards of efficiency and economy.



- 22 -
3.13      Table T-13 provides details regarding the number and use of the
laboratories and pilot plants to be financed under the proposed project. With
the exception of the metrological laboratory and the industrial design and
packaging, and technological information services, all project facilities
would be located at LATU's new site in the suburbs of Montevideo. The admin-
istration, metrological laboratories, industrial design and technological
information services would remain at the downtown Montevideo site for at least
the next five years. Table T-14 provides a breakdown of the technical assis-
tance to be financed under the project, by area of specialization and calendar
year.
Criteria for Selection of Sub-Sectors and Industries
3.14      The four sub-sectors (including 11 industries) for which new or
additional facilities would be provided under the project are: food indus-
tries, textiles, leather and leather products, and process industries. Table
T-15 summarizes the chief problems within each of the 11 industries, the
services currently offered by LATU and a tentative plan of activities. The
main criteria for the selection of the sub-sectors and industries included:
(a) the contribution of each to GDP, exports and employment;
(b) the expected demand for services by the Uruguayan
industrialists; and
(c) the existence of freely available scientific and
technological knowledge about the sub-sector.
The industries selected accounted for about 75% of the value of total exports
in 1976 and have been responsible for the major share of export growth in
recent years. Moreover, these industries generated about 68% of industrial
GDP and 57% of industrial employment in 1976 (Table T-16). Particular care
was paid to examining the impact of the planned liberalization of the import
duty structure and tax rebate system on the viability of the industries to be
served by the project. With regard to demand, LATU conducted a survey of
242 Uruguayan enterprises (87 food enterprises, 5 beverage, 26 textiles, and
33 leather and leather products, 55 process industries, 11 electric and
electronic, and 25 metal mechanic) to determine their interest and willingness
to pay for technological research and technical assistance services. In all,
of 36 exporting industries originally proposed by LATU, 11 were ultimately
selected for inclusion in the project. This constitutes a reasonable program
of activities for LATU's expansion in the medium-term, on a gradual basis and
consistent with the institution's capabilities.
Criteria for Selection of Research Sub-Projects
3.15      All research sub-projects, whether internally or externally generated,
would be submitted to a thorough screening process within LATU. The appraisal
of a technological research sub-project would be a continuous process, starting
before the project is even designed. The screening and appraisal would be
carried out by the appropriate technological division, the information and



- 23 -
commercial development department, the industrial advisory group concerned,
and ultimately by LATU's Board of Directors. The Board would be assisted in
reviewing the research project proposals by a Management Committee (paras. 3.17-
3.18), including the heads of departments and consultants. In particular,
each technological research proposal would be carefully appraised in terms
of:
(a)  the utility of the sub-project, measured by:  (i) its
relevance to economic and social objectives, particularly
to maintaining or improving the international competitive-
ness of Uruguayan industry; (ii) the market value and other
benefits (e.g., employment generation, savings to the
client) of a successful effort compared to the costs of
having undertaken the research; and (iii) the transferability
of the innovation/adaptation to the productive system (e.g.,
the user's capacity to implement the results of the tech-
nological research); and
(b) the efficiency with which the project may be executed,
measured by: (i) the qualifications of LATU's personnel
to work on the particular research problem; (ii) the
appropriateness of LATU's installations for the proposed
research and their availability at the time; (iii) the
existence of freely available scientific and technological
knowledge on the research problem; and (iv) the availability
of external experts to work with LATU on the project.
During negotiations, the government gave assurances that the subprojects would
be selected in accordance with the abovementioned criteria.
3.16      The following sub-projects provide an illustration of the type of
technological research work that is anticipated under the proposed project, in
addition to routine quality control, technical assistance and information
services. Examples in the dairy industry would be the development or improve-
ment of local varieties of cheese; in the fruits and vegetables industry,
studies on the causes of rapid deterioration of canned products, and the
preparation of juices and concentrates and other beverages from indigenous
varieties; in the meat industry, the use of animal glands to prepare phar-
maceuticals; in the fish industry, studies on smoking, salting, canning and
freezing processes; in the leather industry, improvements in the tanning and
finishing of sheep skins; in the pulp and paper industry, studies on the
production of paper using local wood varieties; and in the detergents, soap
and cleaning products industry, studies on the use of glycerine and fatty
acids derived from the meat industry and essences of local herbs.
Reorganization and Staffing
3.17      Although LATU would maintain its status as a semi-autonomous
institution of the Ministry of Industry and its financing system based on
earmarked taxes, it would need to be reorganized internally to adapt to
the number and type of new activities which it would be undertaking as a



- 24 -
result of the proposed project. The main features of the new organization
(Chart C-4) would be the establishment of a Management Committee; indus-
trial advisory groups; and three new divisions for programming and budget-
ing, technical and market information, and promotion and sales. The govern-
ment gave assurances that LATU would implement this new organization scheme by
January 1, 1979.
3.18      The Board of Directors would be assisted by a Management Committee
integrated by the directors of the various departments and by specialists
retained from time to time in the field of management of technological
institutes. The establishment of industrial advisory groups at the level
of the Board of Directors is designed to increase the participation of
private enterprise in the management of LATU. Each group would include
industrialists from the corresponding branches of the Chamber of Industries
and other industrialists selected by the Board of Directors of LATU from
amongst those not belonging to any association. Advisory groups are foreseen
for dairy industries, fruits and vegetables, meat products, leather and
leather products, textiles, glass and ceramics, wood products, pulp and
paper, soaps and cleaning products, fertilizers, plastics and elastomers.
Additional groups may be formed at the initiative of either LATU or the
industrialists. The new programming and budgeting division would play
an important role in the financial management of LATU's expansion, and the
technical and market information and promotion and sales divisions would
support efforts to identify LATU's non-routine services.
3.19      Quality control and technical assistance services would be performed
by the relevant technological divisions. Such services and information
provided to enterprises in order to help them in trouble-shooting production
problems normally requires only a few days of visits to the plants by LATU
staff and some minor laboratory work. Technological research activities, on
the other hand, tend to be of a more long-term nature. They would be assigned
to special task forces established under the management responsibility of one
senior professional of LATU and including other professionals and technicians
of LATU, as well as local and foreign specialists on contract. Arrangements
may also be made with other local and foreign, private and public,
laboratories and institutions to use their staff and facilities as needed.
3.20      The proposed expansion of LATU's activities under the project would
require the employment of 115 additional personnel (e.g., from 55 to 170 by
1982). The new personnel would include 20 professionals, 45 technicians and
50 auxiliary staff. An intensive training program is planned, under which
LATU's professionals would be sent abroad to work/study in industry-oriented
technological institutes and foreign specialists would be brought to Uruguay.
Reliance on purely academic training (e.g., not combined with practical
working experiences) has been avoided to the extent possible, and the fields
of expertise for which foreign specialists would be recruited have been
selected on the basis of specific problem areas. The government gave assur-
ances that all technical assistance specialists would be selected on the
basis of criteria and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank; the fellowship program would be acceptable to the Bank; and suitable
counterparts would be assigned to work with all specialists.



- 25 -
Evaluation
3.21      The impact of the technological development component of the
proposed project would be subject of continuous assessment in terms of:
clients contacted and requests for services received, production problems
solved, income from contracts, establishment of new firms and expansion of
exports attributable to LATU services. The government gave assurances that
IATU would begin to implement an acceptable evaluation system by July 1, 1979,
and would make available to the Bank for review annual evaluation reports
during 1980-82. Also, within six months of the Closing Date of the loan
account, the government would send to the Bank a full completion report
providing an assessment of the project, its results and the experience
gained during implementation.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
Cost Estimates
3.22      The total cost of the technological development component of the
proposed project is estimated at US$11.5 million, as summarized below.
Further details regarding physical facilities and costs by category of
expenditure are provided in Table T-20.
NUr$ ('000) 1/                  US$('000)
Items              Local    Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign   Total
Laboratories and Pilot
Plant Installations
(includes mechanical
and electrical equipment
for buildings)            12,542.2   26,291.6  38,833.8  2,280.4  4,780.3   7,060.7
Technical Assistance and
Specialist Services for
Physical Plant Design        381.2    7,237.4   7,618.6       69.3  1,315.9   1,385.2
Project Administration       2,188.5       547.2   2,735.7    397.9       99.5     497.4
Base Cost Estimates 2/   15,111.9   34,076.2  49,188.1  2,747.6  6,195.7   8,943.3
Contingencies
Physical (10%)             1,511.2    3,407.6   4,918.8    274.7    619.6        894.3
Price (17.4%)              2,673.0    6,728.1   9,401.1    486.0  1,223.3   1,709.3
TOTAL COST                19,296.1   44,211.9  63,508.0  3,508.3  8,038.6  11,546.9
1/   US$1.00=NUr$5.5 as of April 1, 1978.
2/   Base cost estimate expressed in prices as of April 1, 1978.



- 26 -
3.23      Civil works costs were estimated on the basis of actual bids for
expansion and adaptation of LATU's existing facilities in Montevideo during
1977. Space standards reflect schedules of accommodation developed during
appraisal and are similar to those used in other technological institutes
comparable to LATU.  The estimated cost of construction (excluding site   2
development and mechanical and electrical equipment) averages US$300 per m
of gross floor area. Architectural designs and construction supervision have
been contracted with an acceptable consultant firm; additional consultants
acceptable to the Bank would be contracted by the main firm for detailed
engineering work. The costs of all professional services were based on
prevailing fee scales in Uruguay established by the local architectural and
engineering associations. Equipment costs were estimated on the basis of
preliminary lists for each laboratory and pilot plant, and furniture costs
were estimated at 12% of the value of construction. Imported equipment and
furniture would be exempt from customs duties, and are costed accordingly.
Detailed equipment and furniture lists would be compiled during the design
stage and presented for Bank approval prior to procurement. Technical
assistance costs were estimated at about US$57,000 per man-year of specialist
services and US$21,000 per man-year of fellowships. Specialist services for
physical plant design were estimated at US$60,000 per man-year.
at US$60,000 per man-year.
3.24      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimate
for: (a) unforeseen physical factors averaging 10% of the base cost estimate;
and (b) expected annual price increases above the base cost estimate plus
physical contingencies for: construction (including civil and site works and
professional services), technical assistance and project administration
averaging 8% during 1978, 7.5% during 1979, and 7% annually during 1980-82;
and for furniture and equipment averaging 7% during 1978, 6.5% during 1979,
and 6% annually during 1980-82. Total contingencies amount to US$2.6 million,
equal to about 29% of the base cost estimate (Table T-20).
3.25      The total foreign exchange cost of the technological development
component of the proposed project is estimated at US$8.0 million, representing
70% of the total cost of the component. Foreign exchange costs were calculated
as follows: equipment and technical assistance, 95%; professional services
and furniture, 40%; project administration, 20%; civil works, 30%; and site
development, 8% (Table T-20).
Financing Plan
3.26      The total capital cost of the technological development component of
the proposed project would be met by Bank financing of US$6.8 million and
LATU financing of US$4.7 million (including a US$2.5 million loan from the
Mortgage Bank of Uruguay for construction of the laboratories and pilot
plants), as follows (in US$'000):
1978     1979   1980      1981    1982    1978-82
Bank Loan              54.9    827.7  2,238.8  2,984.1  694.5   6,800.0
LATU Contribution    594.8  1,152.5  1,416.7  1,555.8   27.1   4,746.9
TOTAL               649.7  1,980.2  3 655.5  4,539.9  721.6  11,546.9



- 27 -
The government would be the Borrower vis-a-vis the Bank, but LATU would
repay the government the share of the loan disbursed for the technological
development component of the proposed project on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank. It would be a condition of disbursement of loan funds
for the technole~gical development component of the project that a contract,
acceptable to the Bank, covering the on-lending of funds and all other impor-
tant aspects of project execution, be signed between LATU and the government.
An analysis of LATU's likely income and expenditure position through 1985
(Tables T-17 and T-18) indicates that it could accept the same repayment terms
as those of the Bank's loan to the government, provided the government would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Receipt of satisfactory evidence that LATU
has obtained the loan from the Mortgage Bank of Uruguay would also be a
condition of disbursement of loan funds for the technological component of the
project. The government gave assurances that LATU would: (a) make sufficient
and timely budgetary contributions to meet the annual counterpart fund require-
ments of the technological development component of the proposed project; and
(b) furnish to the Bank for approval the proposed annual work program which
would be prepared in consideration of its human and financial resources and
its orientation towards export-oriented industries.
3.27      As a result of the proposed project, LATU's recurrent expenditures
would quadruple during 1977-83, and thereafter would grow at an annual rate
of about 1% in constant prices. LATU's revenues would grow at a slower pace,
only doubling over the same period. The gap between expenditures and revenues
would be met by drawing on LATU's accumulated reserves (which totalled about
US$2.1 million at the end of 1976), supplemented by short-term local borrowings.
From about 1987 onwards, revenues would begin to match costs. Earmarked taxes
linked to Uruguay's export performance (para. 3.07) presently generate more
than 95% of LATU's revenues, with the quality control tax on non-traditional
exports accounting for about two-thirds of the total. Revenues from contract
technological research and sales by LATU of other services paid by industry
(excluding revenues from materials testing), which was equivalent to only
about 0.7% of total revenues from taxes in 1976, would increase by at least
50% per year from January 1, 1980 to January 1, 1985 (as calculated in terms
of the value of the nuevo peso at the date of the Loan Agreement). LATU
intends that its task force services (para. 3.19) would be priced so as to
recover the costs incurred. Implementation and monitoring of this decision
would be heavily dependent upon LATU's adopting an improved accounting system
(para. 3.28). The revenue projections from earmarked taxes are based on
forecasts of Uruguay's future export performance; expenditure projections take
into account the expected increase in LATU's staff (para. 3.20) and assume
about a 40% real increase in average salaries to enable LATU to attract and
retain highly competent staff. The government gave assurances that it would
take, or would cause LATU to take, all necessary steps to: (a) establish an
appropriate salary scale and conditions of service in order to attract and
retain competent staff; and (b) make funds available in the event of any
shortfall in revenues needed to cover LATU's operating expenses (e.g., due to
unexpectedly poor export performance for a short period).



- 28 -
D. Implementation and Disbursements
Project Administration
3.28      LATU would be responsible for administering the technological
development component of the proposed project. The Director of LATU would
perform the normal functions of a project director, with responsibility
for planning, organizing, controlling and monitoring project execution.
The Director would be assisted by a full-time project implementation team
comprising a general coordinator, an architect, an engineer, an accountant,
and supporting staff. Appointment of acceptable principal staff of the
project implementation team would be made by October 31, 1978. Other depart-
ments of LATU would also assist in project implementation from time to time,
as necessary. The salaries of the full-time project implementation team and
related operating expenses, estimated at US$497,400, have been included under
project administration costs. Also included are the costs of specialists for
physical plant design, who will be required to assist LATU in supervising
plant design, equipment procurement and installation of pilot plants and
laboratory equipment (para 3.30). Their cost is estimated at US$180,000.
Specialists would also be required for the revision of LATU's accounting
system and in the organization of the new programming and budgeting division
and information and commercial development department. The government gave
assurances that LATU would implement a revised accounting system no later than
January 1, 1980, and that throughout the project implementation period LATU
would maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures. These accounts
would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the audit
reports would be made available to the Bank for review.
3.29      In the interest of promoting maximum coordination and flow of
information between the technological development and vocational training
components of the proposed project, the National Planning Secretariat
(SEPLACODI) would designate staff responsible for monitoring the respective
components. The government gave assurances that SEPLACODI would appoint at
least one such liaison officer for the technological development component by
January 1, 1979. The Director of LATU would be responsible for liaison with
the SEPLACODI staff.
Professional and Technical Services
3.30      LATU has contracted the services of an acceptable firm of architects
for the general design of the new laboratories and pilot plants, and for
construction supervision. Given the highly specialized nature of LATU's
installations, the firm itself would need to retain the services of specialists
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.28). The cost of all fees for design work and
construction supervision, estimated at US$487,400, has been included under
professional services in the total project cost.
3.31      The government gave assurances that LATU would organize ad hoc
technical committees to review architectural designs, equipment and furniture
lists, and to certify that they meet economic and functional standards and



- 29 -
costs and the overall objectives of the project, before forwarding such
documents for Bank approval. These committees would probably include members
of the industrial advisory groups established to advise LATU's Board of
Directors (para. 3.18).
Implementation Schedule
3.32      For the purpose of assisting LATU in planning, organizing and con-
trolling project execution, a preliminary implementation schedule was prepared
during appraisal (Table T-19). LATU would update this schedule regularly and
use it as a project implementation and monitoring tool.
Site
3.33      LATU has acquired an acceptable site in the suburbs of Montevideo,
which has area adequate for the needs of the proposed project, as well as
for LATU's future expansion. Site development, financed entirely by LATU,
commenced in 1977.
Maintenance
3.34      The government gave assurances during negotiations that it would
ensure the adequate maintenance and repair of all equipment, furniture and
buildings provided under the project. To that effect, LATU should prepare a
maintenance handbook and include in its annual budget a sum for maintenance
equivalent to at least 1% of the replacement cost of the buildings during the
first four years of operation and 1.5% thereafter, and 5% of the cost of
equipment and furniture.
Procurement
3.35      Contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines, except that furniture and equipment which cannot be
grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. A maximum of US$375,000 in the
aggregate (equivalent to about 10% of the estimated total cost of furniture
and equipment) would be procured in this manner. Domestic furniture and
equipment manufacturers tendering under international procedures would receive
a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF cost of competitive
imports or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
3.36      Although the cost of buildings has been included in the total
project cost, their financing would be borne entirely by LATU through a US$2.5
million loan from the Mortgage Bank of Uruguay (para. 3.26). The government
gave assurances that the buildings would be appropriately designed and con-
structed for the proper installation and use of the equipment and furniture
financed by the World Bank and that to this effect it would submit plans,
specifications and other related documents for World Bank approval. Civil
works contracts, which would be financed entirely by LATU, would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding.



- 30 -
Disbursements
3.37      The proposed loan of US$6.8 million (for the technological develop-
ment component) equivalent 59% of the total cost of US$11.5 million, would
finance only 85% of the foreign exchange component of US$8.0 million, as
follows: (a) iuo% of foreign expenditures for imports or 85% of expendi-
tures for locally procured furniture and equipment; and (b) 100% of total
expenditures for technical assistance. LATU would finance the balance of
(a), as well as 100% of the costs of construction (including civil and site
works and professional services) and project administration. The Bank loan
would be disbursed over a period of four and a half years through
December 31, 1982, with physical project completion by December 31, 1981 (see
para. 2.45 and Table T-21).
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES, EVALUATION
Benefits
4.01      Uruguay's improving economic performance in recent years has been
led by the expansion of non-traditional exports, which increased from US$87
million in 1973 to nearly US$300 million in 1976. This marked change
reflects the success of government policies to stimulate certain industrial
sub-sectors, such as leather and textiles. At the same time, authorities
have begun to dismantle Uruguay's traditional protectionism in a major
effort to bring about a restructuring of the economic pattern of production.
While this should help to foster increased efficiency in the exporting
sectors, it will also mean that continued rapid export growth will depend
increasingly on the ability of Uruguayan enterprises to compete in world
markets through improved productivity and quality of output. Obsolete
equipment, outdated labor skills, and archaic technological processes are
important obstacles to the full realization of the country's export poten-
tial. The Bank is already involved in supporting the export promotion
program under Loan 1176-UR, which is providing funds for the renovation
and expansion of plant capacity and for technical assistance to aid in the
formulation of sound sectoral policies and to strengthen public agencies
responsible for evaluation of industrial investments. The proposed project
would complement and broaden these efforts through: (a) the establishment
of a national vocational training system to meet the essential manpower
training needs of the export and export-supporting sectors; and (b) the
development of a local capability to conduct applied technological research
and provide technical assistance to entrepreneurs. While these two compo-
nents are to some extent independent, they are nevertheless complementary
approaches to the objective of increasing Uruguay's capacity to compete in
world markets and they benefit many of the same industrial sub-sectors.
The National Planning Secretariat would undertake responsibility for liaison
with the vocational training and technological agencies to ensure maximum
flow of information between them and the rest of the public sector, while
private sector involvement would be encouraged through participation in
the management of both agencies.



- 31 -
4.02      Vocational Training.  The proposed vocational training component
would assist the government in establishing a national system (COCAP) to
initially provide manpower training services to the key export and export-
supporting sectors., Through the project, about 2,000 semi-skilled and skilled
workers would be trained annually in a new vocational training center in
Montevideo, 6,400 rural workers would receive courses through mobile training
units, and 7,800 supervisors and workers would be trained under in-plant
schemes. The vast majority (92%) of the 16,200 beneficiaries would be already
employed adults participating in skill upgrading courses to enhance their
productivity, reflecting the fact that Uruguay already has a rather extensive
formal technical education system which prepares young people for job entry.
Besides physical facilities and in-plant training, the project would provide
extensive technical assistance to support the general institutional develop-
ment of COCAP and to help the government prepare a preinvestment studies
fund. Finally, surveys financed under the project would assist in identify-
ing additional training needs in industries to be served in future stages
of development of COCAP.
4.03      Technological Development.  This component of the proposed project
would assist the government in fostering the development of a domestic
capability in the areas of applied technological research, technical and
market information services, and technical assistance to local industrialists.
Uruguay needs mainly to develop the research capability to analyze and select
from amongst existing technological alternatives and to make appropriate
adaptations to local conditions. Domestic firms also require technical
assistance and information services to help them in analyzing production
problems and identifying possible technological solutions and potential
markets.  This is particularly important in the Uruguayan context because
of the small size of the average industrial enterprise, most of which cannot
afford to maintain their own research and testing facilities and personnel.
Specifically, the project would assist the Technological Laboratory of
Uruguay (LATU) to improve and expand its ongoing quality control and routine
analytic testing, as well as develop new capabilities in technological research
and technical assistance to entrepreneurs. Four industrial sub-sectors (food,
leather, textiles and process industries) would be assisted, through the
establishment of laboratories and pilot plants; all installations would be
designed so as to ensure maximum flexibility in their use over time.
4.04      Quantitative assessment of the benefits of investments in tech-
nological research are not possible, because the work program of the research
institution cannot be clearly determined in advance. Rather it will develop
over time in response to the requirements of industry. Moreover, the ultimate
returns to the technological research would depend also on additional indus-
trial investment and marketing efforts. However, some notion of the impact of
LATU's efforts may be possible by assessing the consequences of only a small
increase in the value added component of manufactured exports and a
corresponding decrease in the export of raw materials. For example, if 0.5%
of all hides exported in 1975 had been converted into leather bags for export,
the additional export earnings would cover LATU's total investment costs for
the leather industries. Similarly, if 0.5% of the volume of exported wool
tops had been converted into blankets, the foreign exchange earnings would
cover investments by LATU for the textiles industries.



- 32 -
Risks and Uncertainties
4.05      The major uncertainties for both components of the project are:
(a) the broader aspects of national industrial policy; (b) the response
of the private sector to the new services; and (c) the quality of the
managerial and technical staff of COCAP and LATU. Industrial policy
is an area over which neither COCAP nor LATU has much real control, but
the performance of the government since 1974 in reversing Uruguay's historic
inward-looking import substitution schemes in favor of an export-led develop-
ment strategy consistent with the country's basic resource endowment bodes
well for the future (Chapter 1). With regard to private sector response, the
participation of industrialists in the Boards and industrial advisory groups of
both COCAP (para. 2.18) and LATU (para. 3.18) should help to foster a close
relationship. Finally, as regards quality of management and staff, LATU's
performance to date has been good and its present personnel are well qualified
for the tasks they are required to undertake. Provision would be made under
the proposed project to ensure that salaries are maintained at levels
adequate to attract and retain qualified staff to both agencies (paras. 2.28
and 3.27), and extensive technical assistance programs for both LATU and
COCAP would provide further training and organizational support (paras. 2.26
and   3.10(b)).
Evaluation
4.06      Preliminary evaluation systems were developed during appraisal for
both components of the project (paras. 2.29 and 3.21). In the case of COCAP,
the system focuses on production and wage increases attributable to its
vocational training programs. For technological development, the clients
contacted by LATU and requests for services received, production problems
solved, income from contracts, establishment of new firms and expansion of
exports attributable to LATU services would be studied. Assurances were
obtained from the government that both evaluation systems would be implemented
no later than July 1, 1979, and that annual evaluation reports would be sent
to the Bank for review during 1980-82. Finally, within six months of the
Closing Date of the loan account, the government would send to the Bank a full
completion report providing an assessment of both components of the project,
their results and the experience gained during implementation.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Vocational Training Component
5.01      Prior to Board presentation, the Bank received satisfactory evidence
from the government that the decree, acceptable to the Bank, establishing the
Vocational Training Council (COCAP) has been issued (paras. 2.16 - 2.19).



- 33 -
5.02      During negotiations, the government gave assurances that:
(a)  by January 1, 1979, UTU will transfer to COCAP responsibility for
its adult vocational training (para. 2.16) and in-plant training
(para. 2.25) services, as well as about 20 experienced instructors
and course programmers (paras. 2.23 and 2.28);
(b)  by January 1, 1980, the Ministry of Labor will assist in the
placement and follow-up of graduates of COCAP through its Employment
Service (para. 2.23);
(c)  by January 1, 1979, a rural training coordinator and six
regional deputy coordinators will be appointed to administer
COCAP's rural mobile training programs (para. 2.24);
(d)  technical assistance specialists will be selected on the
basis of qualifications and will be employed on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank; the fellowship program
will be acceptable to the Bank, and suitable counterparts
will be appointed to work with the specialists (para. 2.26);
(e)  the plans for each training survey (including cost estimates,
terms of reference and implementation programs) will be
submitted to the Bank for approval prior to the initiation of
the survey (para. 2.27);
(f)  by July 1, 1979, the system to evaluate the external and
internal effectiveness of COCAP's vocational training activities
will be initiated, and annual evaluation reports will be made
available for the Bank to review during 1980-82 (para. 2.29);
(g)  sufficient and timely budgetary allocations will be made to
meet the annual requirement for counterpart funds to implement
the vocational training component of the project (para. 2.34);
(h)  in the event that the revenues derived from COCAP's regular
system of financing proves inadequate to cover COCAP's expected
operating costs, the government will take, or will cause COCAP to
take, all such action as may be necessary to supplement the regular
revenues (para. 2.35);
(i)  COCAP will maintain separate accounts for all project implementa-
tion expenditures, the accounts will be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and the audit reports will be made avail-
able to the Bank for review (para. 2.36);
(j)  by January 1, 1979, SEPLACODI will appoint at least one liaison
officer for the vocational training component of the proposed
project (para. 2.37);



- 34 -
(k) consultants acceptable to the Bank will be retained for all
architectural and engineering design work and for construction
supervision (para. 2.38);
(1) technical committees will be established as needed to review
architectural designs, equipment and furniture lists and
specifications and to certify that they meet economic and
functional standards and costs and the educational objectives
of the proposed project, before forwarding such documents for
Bank approval (para. 2.39);
(m) an acceptable site in Montevideo for the vocational training
center will be acquired before the start of design work
(para. 2.41); and
(n) all equipment, furniture and buildings financed under the
proposed project will be adequately maintained and repaired,
and to that effect COCAP will prepare a maintenance handbook
and include in its annual budget a sum for maintenance equivalent
to at least 1% of the replacement cost of the buildings during
the first four years of operation and 1.5% thereafter, and 5%
of the cost of equipment and furniture (para. 2.42).
5.03      A special condition of effectiveness of the loan for the proposed
project will be the promulgation by the government of legislation, acceptable
to the Bank, which, inter alia, grants COCAP legal personality and
establishes a stable and long-term financing system to cover the
operating costs of the institution (para. 2.19).
5.04      The following are conditions of disbursement for the vocational
training component of the proposed project:
(a) the promulgation of all regulations needed to implement the
legislation establishing COCAP (paras. 2.19 and 5.03);
(b) the appointment to the executing unit of COCAP, on a full-
time basis, of an acceptable Director, architect, vocational
training specialist, accountant and procurement officer to
manage project implementation (para. 2.36); and
(c) the signing of a contract, acceptable to the Bank, between COCAP and
the government, covering all important aspects of project execution
(para. 2.19).
Technological Development Component
5.05      During negotiations, the government provided assurances that:
(a) it will foster cooperation between LATU and other public and
private institutions in the country, including the National
University, in sharing materials testing equipment; and, that LATU
will retain and use its present facilities for at least the next
five years (paras. 3.11 and 3.13);
(b) the technological research sub-projects to be undertaken by
LATU will be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Bank (para. 3.15);



- 35 -
(c) by January 1, 1979, LATU will implement its new organization scheme,
including the establishment of specified industrial advisory groups
(para. 3.17);
(d) technical assistance specialists will be selected on the basis of
qualifications and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank; the fellowship program will be acceptable to the Bank; and
suitable counterparts will be assigned to work with all specialists
(para. 3.20);
(e) by July 1, 1979, LATU will begin to implement an acceptable
evaluation system, and will make available to the Bank for
review annual evaluation reports during 1980-82 (para. 3.21);
(f) LATU will provide adequately and timely budgetary contributions to
meet the annual counterpart fund requirements of the proposed
project; and, furnish to the Bank for approval the proposed annual
work program which would be prepared in consideration of its human
and financial resources and its orientation towards export-oriented
industries (para. 3.26);
(g) LATU will establish an appropriate salary scale and conditions of
service in order to attract and retain competent staff; and the
government will take, or will cause LATU to take, the necessary
steps to make funds available in the event of any shortfall in
revenues needed to cover LATU's expected operating expenses (para.
3.27);
(h) by January 1, 1980, LATU will implement a revised system of
accounts, and throughout the project implementation period
LATU will maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures,
which will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank
and the audit reports will be made available to the Bank for review
(para. 3.28);
(i) by January 1, 1979, SEPLACODI will appoint at least one liaison
officer for the technological development component of the project
(para. 3.29);
(j) specialists acceptable to the Bank will be retained by LATU for the
review and approval of the detailed engineering drawings, the lists
and specifications for equipment and furniture, the bid documents
and the analysis of the bid offers, and the installation of equipment
in the new buildings (paras. 3.28 and 3.30);
(k) technical committees will be established by LATU as needed to review
architectural designs, equipment and furniture lists and specifica-
tions and to certify that they meet economic and functional standards
and costs and the overall objectives of the project (para. 3.31);



- 36 -
(1)  all equipment, furniture and buildings financed under
the proposed project will be adequately maintained and
repaired, and to that effect, LATU will prepare a maintenance
handbook and include in its annual budget a sum for maintenance
equivalent to at least 1% of the replacement cost of the
buildings during the first four years of operation and 1.5%
thereafter, and 5% of the cost of equipment and furniture
(para. 3.34);
(m)  the buildings will be appropriately designed and constructed
for the proper installation and use of the equipment and
furniture financed by the World Bank, and to that effect all
architectural and engineering plans and other related
documents will be submitted to the Bank for approval
(para. 3.36); and
(n)  by October 31, 1978, a general coordinator, an architect, an engineer,
an accountant and a procurement officer, all acceptable to the Bank,
will be appointed to assist the Director of LATU in managing project
implementation (para. 3.28).
5.06      The following are conditions of disbursement for the technological
development component of the proposed project:
(a)  the Bank must receive satisfactory evidence that LATU has assessed,
in consultation with both the private and public sectors, the demand
for a materials testing laboratory, and, on the basis of such assess-
ment, establish an equipment list for this laboratory. Should the
allocation for this equipment appear to be too large, the Bank would
have the right to cancel the excess amounts after having assessed the
requirements of other parts of the project (para. 3.11);
(b)  the signing of a contract acceptable to the Bank, between LATU and
the government, providing for:
(i) the on-lending to LATU by the government of that
share of the loan disbursed for the technological
development component of the project, on the
same terms as those of the proposed Bank loan to
the government (except that the government would
bear the foreign exchange risk); and
(ii) all other important aspects of project execution
(para. 3.26);
(c)  the receipt of satisfactory evidence that LATU has obtained
the loan from the Mortgage Bank of Uruguay for the construction
of the project laboratories and pilot plants (para. 3.26); and
(d)  the appointment of an acceptable general coordinator, architect,
engineer, accountant and procurement officer to assist the Director
of LATU in managing project implementation (para. 3.28).
5.07      Given the above assurances and conditions, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$9.7 million to the Republic of Uruguay
for a term of 15 years including a three-year period of grace.
May 25, 1978



-37-                        ANNEX 1
Table T-1
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population 1963-85
(in thousands)
1963              1975              1985
TOTAL                          2,595.5            2,782.0         3,70.3/
Rural (in %)                 (19.2)              (17.0)            *
Age Distribution
0-9                     502.4             496.5
lo-14                    222.8             253.9
15-19                    205.9             235.7
20-24                   192.5              204.6
25 and over           1,1471.9           1,591.3
Labor Force                 1,015.5            1,094.4
GeQgraphic Population
Distribution
Departments:                                       *               *
Montevideo                  1,202.8
Artigas                        52.8
Canelones                     258.2
Cerro Largo                    71.0
Colonia                      .105.4
Durazno                        53.6
Flores                         23.5
Florida                        64.0
Lavalleja                      65.8
Maldonado                      61.3
Paysandu                       88.0
Rio Negro                      46.9
Rivera                         77.1
Rocha                          55.1
Salto                          92.2
San Jose                       79.6
Soriano                        77.9
Tacuarembo                     76.9
Treinta y Tres                 43.4
Sources:  IV and V Censo de Poblaci6n, Direcci6n General -le Estad'stica
y Censos, (1975 figures are preliminary)
* Not available.
1/ World Bank estimate (EPD)
May 22, 1978



-38-
ANNEX 1
Table T-2
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commodity Exports, 1973-1976
1973     1974      1975      1976      (% of Total    1973/74   1974/75    1975/76
(in current UST million)           in 1976)           (Annual growth rates)
1. Meat
-  Chilled and Frozen        125.9    142.5    82.8    121.1
-  Processed Meat              0.3       0.7     2.3       7.2
-  Other                       0.9       1.5     3.4       5.7
Oubtotal                     127.1    144.7    88.5    134.0          (24.5)         13.8      -38.8       51.4
2.  Fish                           0.8       1.2      3.4      5.2        ( 1.0)         50.0      183.3       52.9
3.  Wool                         101.1      89.1    89.1    104.5         (19.1)        -11.9        0         17.3
4.  Hides and Skins               29.4      28.5    21.5      37.7        ( 6.9)        - 3.1      -24.6       75.3
5. Agricultural Products
-  Processed Rice             14.9      28.2    33.2      26.1
-  Wheat                         -         -    10.3       4.1
- Linseed Oil                  3.9       5.9     7.1       8.2
-  Others                     13.9      20.1    22.5      60.8
Subtotal                      32.7     54.2    73.1       99.2        (18.1)         65.7       34.9       35.7
6. Manufactures
6.1 - Leather Garment              4.0      10.8    19.9      35.9
- Shoes                        1.5       2.9     8.9      16.4
- Other leather Manuf.         1.3       1.2    12.0      20.1
Subtotal  6.1                  6.8     14.9    40.8       72.4        (13.2)        119.1      173.8       77.5
6.2 - Textiles                     6.9      11.4    14.1      19.7
- Garment                      0.3       0.8     2.0       7.3
Subtotal  6.2                  7.2     12.2    16.1       27.0        ( 4.9)         69.4       31.9       67.7
6.3 Other                         10.7      27.4    36.0      44.6        ( 8.2)        156.1       31.4       23.9
Subtotal  6.1-6.3             24.7      54.5    92.9    144.0
7.  All other Goods                4.8       9.6    14.9      22.2        ( 4.1)        100.0       55.2       49.0
8.  Adjustment for wool            6.1   -  0.9       3.7        -
TOTAL EXPORTS                326.7    380.9   387.1    546.8          (100.0)        16.6       1.6        41.3
Source: Direcci6n General de Comercio Exterio^
May 22, 1978



-39-
ANNEX 1
URUGUAY                                         Table T-3
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports by Destination, 1967-75
(Percentages)
1967       1968        1969        1970        1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
TOTAL                100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       l00.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
AMERICA               18.7        23.2        22.3        21.5        26.4        16.1        13.6        40.6        36.3
1. Latin America Free
Trade Association       10.8        10.5        15.3        12.5        21.4        12.4        10.0        36.3        29.2
2. U.S.                     12.1         6.6        8.5         8.5         4.7         3.4          3.4        3.7         6.7
3. Central-America
Common Market            0.1         -           0.1         0.1         0.2         -           -           -           -
4. Others                    0.6         0.6         0.3        0.4         0.1         0.3         0.2         0.4         0.4
EUROPE                74.4        69.3        69.4        68.8        63.0        76.3        75.2        51.2        51.5
1. European Common
Market                  26.3        26.7        34.1        36.7        38.6        41.4        46.6        27.7        34.0
2. European Free Trade
Association              27.2       25.3        16.4        10.3         9.6        12.8         4.0         3.0         2.8
3. Eastern Europe            7.1         3.9        5.3        12.2         4.8         7.5        11.8        10.6         7.5
4. Spain                     9.5         6.8         8.1        3.1         3.0        11.1        11.6          6.0         3.1
5. Others                    4.5         6.6         5.5        6.5         7.0         3.5         1.2          3.7        4.1
OTHER COUNTRIES        6.9         7.5         8.3         9.7        10.6         7.6        11.2         8.4        12.2
Source: World Bank, Economic Memorandum on Uruguay (December 1977), Table 3.4
May 22, 1978



-40-
URUGUAY                                                                 ANNEX 1
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                              Table T-4
Comparative Education Indicators                                                               Page 1 of 2
(May 15, 1978)
-- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -                --  - - - - - - - - -- -- --                      - - - - - -     - - - ------------
*  :GNPI  :IGNP  :I TOTAL :!   OF PUBLIC  :tP:IRI. ItAV.PRI.                                                   ::          SEC
*   :CAPITA: I3EVOTED:PU81LIC :EDUCATION    :LITER-    P RI. 1COMWLE- *STU- :SCN.TEACH:PRDGRESS-: SEC.  :STO-  :HIGIl.LA
*      AT   :To EDU.:  EKP. IRECURRENT    :ACY               :EMRDLL:TI0N        :OENTS:SALARV  IN: ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENRI;L:
pop.:.qACKET: IPU8LIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED: ,RATE IRATtD  :RATE FOR:PER   IRELATION :FROM FRI. :RATIO  :PEEE    RATIO
PP    MCES: eKE.    I         TO I   T:.       :   OF   : NET  :ERI.SCM.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.   :MET   :TEACH- GROSs:
YEIMILES.:  IUSBI   ONLY    :  600. IPRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS3:  tiI   :CVGCEit3:ER    ICAPITA :(2                             (4 :8         :Il
Ill  ::    2):  (31          ( 42          (53       :  63     :7) 171     (83    :  93      (103         ( II)     :4123   :1131 :(1,)
AUSTRI A         74    7:5F 4,873F        5.3?    8.EY  24Y  SlY  15Y    99             98        930       260       2.00       990       510      190    16.85Y
CAN4ADA          72 7.F69                  .       94      30   38    19       98       89       96         24        2.0        99        82       17       9.00
GERMANY F.SEP.75 ~51.8  6,670             4.2,  14.2       31EY 31EY 19EY  99           9KG       9IC       23EY       .         99C       9kG      22C    20.26?
j APAN           75  111.64,453           4.3E   20.-7E    40(1Y 37UV 1IUV  99          990       99G       25        2.08       99G       95X5    ZOC    24. 69?
NETHERIANDS    74  13.7F 5,150F           7.9?   15.1?    32    45    19       99       95G       95C       Z9G       3.DG       97C       73C      20C    (1.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    3.IF 4.2RJF          5.2    ...       39    24    29      99       99        99        26        ..         99        67       19      24.00
NORWAY           74    4.3OF 6,760F       1.0    15.2      48Y   22?  E3Y    99       102KV      98        20         1.9        99        90KV    14      21.31Y
SWEDEN           74    8.2F R,150F        7.9?   13.9?    38Y  13Y  13?    99          99G       99C        1iC       ...        9Go       8SC      lOGc   30.0U(
J.K.             72   56.3F 3,780OF       6.3    12.7      26    39    22      98      99        ...       26        2.0         ...       63       17     11.00
U.S.A.           72 213.SF 7,123F         6.0    15.4      ...   73*  27       99       99       99         25U      2.0         ...       93       E9u    290
EUROPFE
GREECF           16    9.1  2,590         2.6    10.4      37    26    21      868     99        820       31       2.0          lOB       80       2 7     1GSUO
SYR L AND        74    3.1F 2,393F        5.1    13.90    43Y  4EV   14Y   98         108KV      99A       35       ...         95A        65XY    19      15.4?Y
POR T UGAL       75    9.6   1.570        4.4    17.8      52    21    13      70      98        55        21       3.0          70        29       14       7.60
ROMANIA          75  21.2   1,240         4.0     6.4      36    19    13      98       101K      ...       21      ...          98        49       22      13.00
SPAIN            74  35.DF 2, 750F        2.48   15.28    49Y  22?  ISV    94A    115XV            .        358     ...          ...       78X?    30       11.68?
AFRICA
ALGERIA          77   16.9      9900      7.5    14.3FY  42    ..21            35       78K      45         39       4.0         55        26X      13       6.00
REIcNN           74    3.EF    130E       7.2N   36.OV    470   230   100    110        44XV      708       53Y     25.08        438       11KV    39 8      0.74?
90T SWANA        16    J.7      413       4.0    19.2      53    20    14       3       12X      95         32        3.0        60        12       22       0.30
g-R ULNOT        74    3.7F    IIOE       2 .5    19.90    47R  418   12R    10         20K      307        38      10.0         14         2K      18       1.0
CAMEROON         73    7.4F    28OF       5.9    20.0      38Y  29?  IIV                74        ...       5EDY    ...          ..                 23CYV    1 390CY
C.A.R.           74    1.8F   220F        3.00)  (7.00    568   198          .         19KV       25        69?      ...         18         8K      278Y    0.21T
CHAD        ~~~~75   4.0    123      3.0    10.0       78    22   ...      15      29XBY    30         658v    15.0           8         2X5Y  30        J.01EV
COINGIOIR        74    1.3K     513F      6.0    19.3      40    52   21       50?    133X       63         63       6.0         48        331      22       3.40
EGYPT            74  37.ZF    260F        5.3      ...     29    36    24      40       74K      45        40       ...          64        39X      28     11.00
ETHIOPIA4        76  28.J       100       2.8    15.8      28   25    10        7       21      ...        50        ...         63         8       34       ..
GARIN            74    2.5F 2.540F        5.00   20.60    250    90  110    ...    100?           ZiG       46C      5.0         188       31?      ZIC      0.29Y
GAMAIA           76    2.5      17O       3.3    11.5      46    25      6     10       27        93        33      ...          92        13       25        ..
GHANA            74    9.9F    59JF       ...    19.7?    43Y  22?  ZOVQ  ...          60Kv      628        30?     ...          148       3SXY    l6CY    1.09Y
GUINEA           76    4.7      lEaF      4.3NQ ...        30    31    30      ...      30K       64        45        12F        86        13X      26       4.03)
IRORT COAST    74    6.1F   540F         6.3    24.7       38Y  37Y  1O?        98     86XY      5TA       45?      ...          ...       17XY    25C       1.64V
KENYA            76   13.8      240       5.9    26.0      67    '3    0o    40         807       427       34        6.0        30        16       27       1.0
LESOITHO         75    1.2      360      12.OP  23.0       49    iR    20      40       85        50        52        7.ON       81        10       26       1.00
LIBERIA          75    1.5      410       2.4    13.2      27    15   20       73       58        ...       35        2.0        ...       12       26       E.IUAY
MADAGASCAR       74    B.8F    233F       3.2    22.1      51    24   25       40      68K       30         63      15.0         48         9K      26       1.00
4ACAWl           76    5.2      140       2.4    10.0      42    18   23       25       56EK      17        52        2.4        10         4EX    20        o.26CV
MALT             75    5.7F    9SOF       4.2M   33.LJF   4SF  37F  18F    lOF          22XF      ...       48F     9.5F         SOF        6K      21        ..
MAURITANIA       71    1.3F    320F       4.1?   20.0O .       .     .     .    OA      17KV      ...       228       ...        ...        3KV    248        .
MAUR ITIUSG      76    3.9L    680       4.7    12.1       50    2              OG      94       99        24        4.5          93       45       32       1.50
MOROCCO          76   lB.2      543       8.1    15.2      398   488   13R   28        65X        33       40         ...        33        17K      22       4.00
NIGERIA          74  75.OF    340F        4.10Y 24.2DY  23Y  16Y  42V    ...            49XY      ...       34DK      ..         ..         0K      20G?    0.48V
RWANRDA          73    4.EF    IODE       3. 2C   28.30....... 23                       52        ...       51        ..          ..        2       13       0.23CY
SEN~GOL          74    5.3F    363F       4.ONR  22.5OR  58KV 428Y ...    LOG           53Xv      ...       46CY      ....        ..       LIKE    256       2.02Y
SIERRA LEONE   73    3 .OF    230F        3.4    23.4      31    36   30       is?      34X       45        32        4.0E       68        13X      21       0.53BY
SOMALIA          75    3. 2     110       3.70   10.8      490   I'6Q  190    50?       34X       86        35       10.0        60)        3       15       0.10
SUD AN           74   T5.6K    270F       8.0Y  15.0?    43C  29C  28C    hGc           40KV      75C       39V       4.OC       25C       11KV    20C       1.45?
SWAZILAND0       7 5    3.5     470       3.8     ---      38    31    19      53       73        71        38        3.8        51        24       22       1.00
TANZ ANIA        74   14.7F    17OE       5.1N   17.0      36    ...   12      63       44X       ...       49        ...         7          2      2KG      0.30
T UN ISI A       73    5. 6F    730F      6.3    23.4      37    43    18      55       72        81        41        6.30       31        14       21       3.00
UGA NDA          75   11.6      230       3.40V  15.70?   34EY 40EY 22EY  25A           53KY      ...       34EY      ...        14A         6KG?   21A      0.56Y
lUMPER VOLTA    74    6.OF    IIOF        4.0    23.9      59    18      9       SC     14KV      ...       46V      18.OC       ZOGX        2KV    23C      0.15?
ZAfRB            73  24. IF    140F       5.2CN 21.3C    54C   17C  29C    15           63        38        41CY      6.0        43          8      24       O.Ni6BE
ZA4811           76    5.1      440       6.8    15.9      54    22    22      39       97K       80        49        7.0        21        16       23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
COSTA RICA       15    2.0      960       5.28   22.7B   578   25B  128    898    109KV           65B       298       3.08B      588       52XY   2SB    17.15?
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.7F    720F          3.0    13.9      42    24    22      51       80        12        54        3.00       63         13.5    24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    75    4.0        460       3.6    23.8      61      5   22      608      65C       ...       39CY      ...        39         13XC    ZIG?    4.358?
GUATEMALA        73    6.3F    57OE       1.9    16.0       55   23    14      47       64        26        35        3.0        69          8      25       4.09?
HAITI            76    4.7      200       1.0      8.0     61    21    11      208      2SF       13        56U       3.0        62          4      ...        0.7
HONDURAS         15    2.9      390G      4.20   18.8G   62G   15G  19G    53           78        30        35        3.0        68         I1       17      4.03
J AMA ICA        74    2.DF 1,11OF        7.1?   20.2V    39?   32v   19Y    86        111KV      ...       39Y       ...         ...       54KV    j9G       6.680Y
MEXICO           75  59.9   1,050         3.100  12.000   51v   26?  12?    76         1128?      31        46        3.0        63        35XY    23A       8.97EV
NICARAGUA        74    2.3F    700F       2.5    14.2       61    13    13      57      65        21        37        2.0        93         17       24       7.00
TRINIDAD  C T. 76    1.30 1.875E          3.4N   10.eo    50E  25E   13E    90C          81       93        34        2.00       49         44      25         ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLI V IA       76    5 .8     31SF      5.0    17.SF.         .     .        38       178       290       24        SEF.                   48      18O
BRAZIL           75 127.3   1,030         5.0    12.4      42E   ZO      37E  646       BAG       ...       2iG Cy      .         ...       26G      GSCV    6.008
CHILE            75   10.3      990       3.88?t  12.5RY  23?   10?  50?    ...    119KV           ...      35?        ...        ...       4eKV    ...    16.55?
COLOMBIA         74  23.6F    580F        3.30V  21.20?   440? 220? 11Y    73          105KV      20        33?       4.0         90        36Xv    14A       6.67?
ECUADOR          75    7.1      590       3.70   27.7C.69                              102XY      ...       38C       ...         ...       38KV    lAG       ..
GUYANA           74    O.8F    SlOE       S.8N   14.70    47    35      14     18A      92K       39         33       6.0         19        62X      24       E.00
PARAGUAY         74    2.6F    SeOF       1.8    11.0       55    13   22       61      82        26         30        1.9        65        17       12       5.00
PERU             75   15.4      760       4.20? 21.70?   40?   22?   1SV    72         llixv      38        390?      3.0         70        48Kv    230?   14.4EV
U~UGUAY          75    2.8   1,300        2.5    15.3       46    34    20      94      93X        ...      24         ...        83        ...      10       ..
VENEZUELA        73  12.3F 2,280F         4.6    19.9       300   280  350    77A       81        ...        33       2.4         ..        33       ...    12.63CY



-41-                                                         ANTNEX 1
Table T-4
Page 2 of 2
Comparative Education Indicators (cont.)
(May 15, 1978)
----------- ----------- -------------                                                                - - -- - ---- --   - ---         - ----------
*    GNP/ 2    GNP  !I TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC I:                              :PRI. 2AV.PRI.  2:SEC
*  :CAPITA: DEVOTED2PUBLIC   EDUCATION   %LITER-   PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.FEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
*  :  AT    TO EDU.'  ElP.   RECURRENT    lACY           IENROLL:TLON      :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
*    'IARKET:' (PUBLIC:ODEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATEOD:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  :RELATION 'FROM PRI.:.RATIO :PER  :RATIO 
D IP. :PRICES' EXP.         TO           TO:      2(1 OF     NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.     NET  :TEACH~- GROSS:
YOI4TLLS.:  IUSS): ONLY)        EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI.2ADULTS): (X)  :C;YCLE(X):ER 2 CAPITA                (3)     :(Xi  :ER    :(%I
*  I   :(2) 2(3)        4 4)  2     (5)       1 (6)      (7)  2(a)    2  9)1   410)    1(11)            :(12)  :(13) :(14)
%SIA AND OCEANIA
A~GHANISIAN   74  13.7F   150F    .         ...        39P  23P  16P   LO        261       24       41       5.0        78        81     21       1.00
BANGLADESH      73  78.6F      9OF     1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  2LY    230    561           ...      480      ...        ...      23X0   28        ..
CH4INA(TAIWAN) 73  16.OF   93DF        3.2   14.0    28   41   22    82          98C       94       40      14.0        84       61C      26    20.00C
INJD IA         75 608.1      140      2.6VY       ..298                         65X2      ..       43A      ...        ..       29xv    20AY   2.34EY
INDINESIA       74 132.IF   220F       3.91F  i1.OF   69 2         0     608    79X       43        30       2.OG       57       19X     14      2 .00
IRAN            73  33.4F 1,660F       3.3   12.6    508  188  12B   50          77        74A      32       5.08       80A      24      32       4.32Cr
IqAD)           75  11.1  1,250        6.7C   16.3-ADR........   26C             93X2      ...      22       ...        ...      35XY   26C      B.47Y
J9POAN          73   2.7F   460F    7.0    8.8    52   15   21    59             911       76       38       5.0        84       501     22       4.00
KlREA           75  35.3    560        2.9   I6.0R   65   33    2    920   104X            98       52       3.5        77       55X    38        7.8
LEBANON         72   3.2F 1,07OF       3.5   18.0    39   40   10    68          86   ~65           19       2.0        63       26U     25    23.00
MALAYSIA        74  12.3F   760F    6.4   28.0    44   31   it    60C    96F               90 -     32       4.00       83F      44F     27F'    3.OOF
NEPAL           76  12.6F   110DF    1.1   10.0    29   20   41    19             59       28       31       2.3        64       14      24       0.8
nMANi           72   0.8F' 2,300)F    1.7N4  3. 8      96    -   -       20      24X       9        33       7.0        ..       0.4X    9        ..
PAKISTAN        75  69.2      160      1.6   16.2    48   25   t8    21          47X       50       39       2.0        ..       17X    18       6.00
PAPJA N.G.    75   2.8    47D          5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32          57?       73P      31      11.0       90        12X?   24        0.90?
PHILIPPINES   74  42.2F   380)F    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    81    1041                ...      34      15.0        -.       46X     ...   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2. 3F 2.450)F    2.7Y   9.22   39Y  39Y  17Y   75A   10912            72A      312      ...       99A       44X2   24       7.68Y
SYR IA          75   7.4    720        3.6   6.9       39   25   26      53      89        70       35       2.0       92        45      21     12.00
THAILAND        73  41.9F   35DF    4.ONF ZO.7F   65    9   15    82             87X       93C      32       3.0 U    91C        21X    24        2.00
TURKEY          73  40.2F'  900F    S.6CY 20.6CY   .              .... ...       85Y       ...      34Y      ...        ...      24Y    270Y   5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5.9F   200F    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10              151      is       36       5.0        75        21     19      0.058Y
YEmzN P.O.R.  74   1.7F'  253F         3.582 10.98Y  79   12  .           10     78Y       31       302     10.0        99       192     20      0.67Y
                                                                                                   -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- --- - - -- -  - - - --   -- - - -   - --   - -- -  - - - -- - -- - -
SUMMARY FOR rDEVELOPING COUNTRIES,
NUMBER OJF COUNTRIES:                  82    79       77   72   73    76        84        59       84         56      63        83      8o        74
R ANGE:                             (0.5-  (3.8-  (25- (5-  (2-   (3-    (14-          413-      (19-      (1.9-   (7-        1.4-   (9-       (.01-
12.0 I 33.0)   96 1 47)  41)   98)         133X)   99         69 I    25.0 )   99)         80  )  39)   23.0)
QUAQTILEN:UPPER                      5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73          94       76        46         7       83        36      25      7. 0
MEDIAN:                  3.9   16.3    45   23   18    s0          78        55       36         4        63       17      23      2.3
LOWER :                  3.0   12.4    38   18   12    20          53        30       32         3       43         9      20        .9
--   - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - -    - - - -  - -  - - - -      - -  -  - ---------
SYMBOLS: ... nATUM UNAVAILABLE                A-197) OR BEFORE           M-CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8.1971                          N-GDP----
?QUESTIONABLE                     C=1972                     P.INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
-INCLUOES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0.1913                          0-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR IBRO MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E.1974          ~           R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
*    UNDER REVIEW                  F-19T5                     S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
0=1976                     T-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITuRE
X-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
-----  -------------      -----  -----  ---------   --------                                                                                  - ---
COMPAPATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMrNT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OP THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE1
ACCUPRACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(l)"EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
12P'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUICATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND -SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUJCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
313)LITEPACY RATES-(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED PROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCO(JNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBOTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF -LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY.
(4P'PUBI IC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION"(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHDOL YEAR AND M4EAN THE PERtCENTAGE OF ELEIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE I82 LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJ)ECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THIE DEVELOPING
COUJNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY Of BASIC DATA(I.E. ABe-SP'ECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTSI. ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREOUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVIERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTmOrES ALSO CAN INFLATE TME RATIOS.



-42-
ANNEX 1
URUGUAY                                                      Table T-5
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHROLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Expenditures on Education, 1974-1976
(In current NUr$'000)
1974                               1975                                     1976
Recurrent   Capital   Total   %   Recurrent   Capita    Tota  %  lecurrent   Capital             Total .
Central Administration (CONAE)       431        81      512   0.4       842        279    1,121   0.5     1,386        149          1,535       O.4
Primary Education                 59,514       555   60,o69  46.4   95,695         679   96,374  46.o   151,315      1,308        152,623      44.5
Secondary Education               27,087       453   27,540  21.3  44,041          874   44,915  21.5    71,291      2,265    |    73,556      21.4
Technical Education (UTU)         15,411       811   16,222  12.5  23,842          834   24,676  11.8    42,329      1,318         43,647      12.7
University                        24,738       442   25,180  19.4  41,692          628   42,320  20.2   66,393       5,445         71,838      21.0
TOTAL            127,181     2,342   29,523 100.0 '206,112       3,294  209,406 100.0   332,74    10,485          343,199   100.0
As % of Central Govt.
Expenditures                   17.9       2.9     16.4           16.8        2.3     15.3            18.3        4.8          16.8
(Central Govt.
Expenditures)              (709,400)  (80,100)(789,500)      (1,227,900) (145,000)(1,372,900)   (1,821,400) (219,200)    (2,040, 600)
Source:   Contaduria Generml de la Naci6n.
Nay 22, 1978



-43-                                           ANNEX 1
Table T-6
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT
Output, Employment and Productivity, 1963 and 1975, 1985 Forecast
1963         1975         1985       1963      1975      1985    1963/75  1975/85
I.  TOTAL OUTPUT (GDP*)                (Constant 1975 US$ Thousands)            ( % of Total GDP)   (% Annual Change)
Agriculture                     457,425       474,059     708,495      17.0      15.0     14.6      0.3      4.1
Industry                        592,972       769,749   1,391,552      22.1     24.5      28.7      2.2      6.1
Construction                    118,834       151,118     211,115       4.4      4.8       4.4      2.0      3.4
Electricity, Gas and Water       52,732        73,081     102,096       1.9       2.3      2.1      2.8      3.4
Transportation and Storage      190,579       226,501     316,426       7.1       7.2      6.5      1.5      3.4
Other Services                1,277,252    1,453,498   2,112,453       47.6     46.2      43.7      1.1      3.8
TOTAL          2,682,795    3,148,006   4,842,137         100      100       100     1.3      4.4
II.  TOTAL LABOR FORCE                       (in Thousands)               (% of Total Labor Force)
Employment                      893.7       1,020.7     1,156.6        88.0     93.3      95.9      1.1      1.3
Agriculture                     168.7         158.1       158.1        16.6      14.4     13.1   - 0.6       0.0
Industry                        190.6         191.1       256.8        18.8     17.5      21.3      0.0      3.0
Construction                     33.8          49.3        49.3         3.3      4.5       4.1      3.2      0.0
Electricity, Gas and Water       17.2          15.4        15.4         1.7       1.4      1.3   - 0.9       0.0
Transportation and Storage       58.1          47.8        47.8         5.7      4.4       4.0   - 1.6       0.0
Other Services                  425.3         559.0       629.2        41.9     51.1      52.1      2.3      1.2
Unemployment                    121.8          73.8        50.0        12.0       6.7      4.1   - 4.3    - 4.0
TOTAL          1,015.5       1,094.5      1,206.6         100      100       100     0.6       1.0
III.  PRODUCTIVITY PER WORKER             (constant 1975 US$)              (% of Average Productivity)
Agriculture                   2,711.5       2,998.5     4,481.3       102.6    104.3    107.0       0.8      4.1
Industry                      3,111.1      4,028.0      5,418.8       117.8    140.0    129.4      2.2       3.0
Construction                  3,515.8       3,065.3     4,282.3       133.1    106.6    102.3   - 1.2        3.4
Electricity, Gas and Water   3,065.8       4,745.5      6,629.6       116.0    165.0    158.4      3.7       3.4
Transportation and Storage   3,280.2       4,735.5      6,619.8       124.2    164.6    158.1       3.1      3.4
Other Services                3,003.2       2,600.2     3,357.4       113.7     90.4      80.2   - 1.2       2.6
AVERAGE        3,001.9       3,0842     4,186.5          100      100       100     0.2      3.1
*  at factor cost        Sources: - Census of 1963 and 1975
- Central Bank
- Mission estimates
May 22, 1978



-44-
ANNEX 1
Table T-7
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TEChNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Employment. Training Needs and Supply. 1982
Annual                PrejectedSCpply  Skilled and Sei-Stfilled Workers
Annual          2        S Skilled and Semi-skilled
Employment                Manpower Regnire ents-        Workers Training Needs                       COCAP 1982
of which
1975           1985  I/                   skilled and               3/              4/    Skilled,aemi-skilled workers              5/      6
Estimate      EItimate           Total      semi-skilled   Job Entry         Upgrading       Job Entry  Upgreding           Sapervison Others
Agic-lt,-reand Fisheries             158,100         158,100           4,740          3,792           2,654           7,462             -         6,680-           50
2. Industrv
Te-tile-                          16,967           33,376           2,700         2,160            1,512           1,327          160            120
Garment                            8,157           16,046           1,300         1.040              728             638          537            276                      1i
Shors                              7,500           14,754           1,200           960              672             588          270            105        , 200
Leather Garment                    3,700            7,278             590           472              330             290          153            69
Other Leother Products                                                                                                                                     J
aod Tonning                   6,231          12,257              990           792             554             407           180            75
Others                           148,317          173,089           0,/2"         S,736           4.716            7,954           30             15 610                1,L57
Sohcetel 2                          191,100         256,800           15.200        12,160           8,512           11,292        1,330         4,7108/          810          -
3.  Construction                         49,300           49,300           1,480          1,184             828           2,327             -             -             -
4.  Electricity, Gas and Water            15,400          15,400              460           368             258              726            -           750           190
5.  Trosportatio- ond Storage             47,800          47,800            1,430         1,144             800           2,255             _         1,450           290
6.  Other Ser-ice-                       559,000         629,200          28,450         22,760          15,932          29,188
TOTAL    1,020,700        1,156,600          51,760        41,408           28,984          53,250       1,330         13,590          1,300      1.168
1/ Baced en Anoco II.1 overall industrial employment growth rate 3%, msin export industries 7%.
2/  Includes attrition 3% p.., skilled and semi-skilled are 80% of total.
3/  Includes 60% of the aennul requirements as job entrants at semi-skilled level and the entrants at skilled level.
4/ 5% of the total stock of mansal wIrkers (semi-skilled and skilled) in 1975.
5/  Training of 1,300 supervisors, who will upgrade about 6,500 workers, which are included in the upgrading output.
For type of supervisor training see Asnex
6/ Private Institutes (graduates in 1976).
7/ Agriculture: 6,430, Fisheries: 250.
8/  Includes upgrading of 4,050 workers by the 810 supervisoro.
Sources: Census
Misuion estipates
May 22, 1978



-45-
ANNEX 1
Table T-8
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Output of Vocational Training System, 1982
A. Vocational Training Center-Montevideo
Specialization                             Job Entry        Upgrading
Textiles Industry - Weavers                     120                80
"1     it    - Maintenance Mechanics         40                40
Garment Industry - cloth                        537               276
"v     it    - leather                       153                69
Shoe Manufacturing Industry                     270               105
Leather Goods Manufacturing Industry            180                75
Refrigeration Mechanics                          30                15
Supervisors                                      30               210
Sub-total A             1,360               870
B. Mobile Agricultural Training
Agricultural Machinery - operation + repairs                    2,664
Soil conservation                                                 900
Pruning, grafting, forestry, etc.                               1,336
Animal Husbandry                                                  456
Milk Production                                                   8o4
Beekeeping                                                        270
Sub-total  B                              6,430
C. In-Plant Training
Training Officers and Supervisors                               1,060
Upgrading of Workers                                            6,5001/
Sub-total  C                              7,560
Total                   1,360            14,860
Grand Total                     16,220
1/ The 1,300 supervisors (1,060 trained in-plant and 240 trained in center)
will upgrade an estimated 6,500 workers per year.
May 22, 1978



-46-
URUGUAY                                   ANNEX 1
Table T-9
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Vocational Training
(man-months)
Specialists                                   Total    1979    1900    19o1    1902
Planning and Organization of Voca-
tional Training + Supervisor Trg.              36      12       12      12        -
In-Plant Training-elect.power sec.(UTE)         18      12        6       -        -
"   "      "    -ports sector (ANP)            24      12      12        -       _
"j  it    "v   -fishing ind. (INAPE)           18      12        6       -       _
"   "      "    -leather tanning ind.         18       12        6       -       -
"      if " -consult.railways (AFE)       24       12      12        -       -
It     t         it " hydrography          9        6       3        -       _
Training in shoe manufacture                    12       -        -       6        6
I    it textiles manufacture                12        -       -        6       6
it   it leather goods manufacture           12        -       -        6       6
Certification and trade testing                12        -       6        6       -
Agricultural training                           24      12      12        -        -
Consultants, pre-invest. studies, eva-
luation + training costs + ind. safety         30       6       6       12       6
Total                249       96      81       48      24
Fellowships
Instructors on textiles, leather, tan-
ning + agricultural training, etc.            84       12      24       36      12
Instructors in instrumentation
(2 x 6 months ANCAP)                          12        6       6       -        -
Organization of In-Plant Training
(6 x 3 months ANCAP, UTE and AFE)             18        9       9        -       -
Total               114       27      39      36       12
Studies
Funds to carry out in-depth study of manpower needs of their priority industries
in the private manufacturing and public sectors              US$ 200,000
Cost
Specialists 20.75 man-years at US$55,000 per year            US$1,141,250
Fellowships  9.5   "    "   " US$12,000  "   "                     114,000
Manpower studies                                                   200,000
Total                              US$1,455,250
May 22, 1978



ANNEX 1
URUGUAY                                                       FTable T-10
VOrATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Recurrent Expenditure and Unit Costs of COCA?. 1982
(in 1977 US$)
Non-                                                                                           Total
Type of Course                   Teaching    Teaching   Materials   Utilities           i.laintehance          Depreciation       T'otal    TrAipiee     Cota per
Personnel   Personal   Supplies                   13uilding    Equipment  Building Equiament              Hours/year  Trainee Hour
1.  Tetiles                         q,899       16,520      5,992         7,099       2,158        6,636      2,158      6,636      66,o98      91,520      o.72
2.  .,ament
(leather and textiles)       47,913      41,854      95,820       17,995        5,520       16,826      5,520     16,826    248,274    269,820        0.92
3.  Other leather pr-ducts         40,629       35,506     06,835        15,260       4,680       14,267      4,680     14,267    156,124    165,600        o.94
4.  Oefrigeration                   9,494        8,270      2,399         3,566       1,094        3,334      1,094       3,334     32,585      38,700       o.84
5.  Supe-visorg                    16,192      14,100       3,960         6,081       1,866        5,686      1,866       5,686     55,437      66,oo0       p.84
6. Mobile course,
in Agriculture                 92,294      55,450      95,575         7,500           -       10,800                1 10,800    272,419    272,624      1.00
7.  In-plant training              99,602            -      2,000             -            -     -           -                -    101,602    121,200        o.84
TOTAL           325,023      171,700      232,581      57,501       15,318       57,549    15,318      57,549    932,539  1.025,464        0.91
(perceitage)           (34.9)      (18.4)       (24.9)        (6.2)      (1.6)         (6.2)       (1.6)     (6.2)      (100)
Mlay 22, 1978



-48-                                       ANNEX 1
Table T-ll
UFIJGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule for Vocational Training
Activity                Calendar Year  [   1978            11979          1980          1981          1982           1983
Semester       1    2        1    2        1         f   1    2        12 21          1    2
CONSTRUCTION OF CENTER                                                             1
1. Site Selection & Acquisition                 XXXXXX
2. Architectural Design                            xxx oXoooo
3. Civil Works Tendering &
Approval                             X|CXXXO  XXXXXX0
4. Construction (1 Center)               |XXXXXXXXXOXOXX     XXXI
FURNITURE                                                                          i
1. Listing, Specifications &             j
Tendering                             i             |D               00=
2. Manufacturing & Delivery              I                                   0000                            co00
EQUIPMENT                                                            I                                - |
1. Listing, Specifications &                                                                          U I
Tendering                                           ------------__     0               1/ 
2. Manufacturing & Delivery              F                                  100000 ;0XXX 01
3. Installation of Equipment &                                       |
Furniture in Center (Center           !
Becomes Operational)                               . ;                                 XXXXXX
ADMINISTRATION
1. Establishment of Project Unit                                     I
and Appointment of Director                                                                          |
and Main Technical Staff                     XXXXXXji
2. Project Administration                              X000K0X000001100000000000  1X0000000   100000000000
IN-PLANT & RURAL TRAINING
1. Transfer from UTU to COCAP            ,
of In-Plant Training Unit &           ,                           |
Rural Training Staff (Trinidad)       i     XXKX000               I
2. Operation of In-Plant & Rural
Training                                             0000      0   00                                XX 0 00
CURRICULUM ELABORATION (Advisory
Committees)                                                                         m 0000000      XXXXX 100 X000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Expert Recruitment & Activities              100000 F                                         I000000G0000  V0X(Q0QQr = xx   10001104 
2. Preparation & Execution of                                                                           I j  
Fellowship Plan                          !00                                                   0      0 x
CENTER
1. Training of Center Personnel                                                     000000          X001
CENTER OPERATIONS                                                                                I ,      o| X ocI
EVALUATION
1. Continuous Evaluation System                X0000   OX                           0      0       0
2. Completion Report                                                                                      00001 XXXXXX10
II ____
1/ Rural Mobile Units will operate immediately.
May 22, 1978



-49-
URUGUAY                                                     ANNEx 1
Table T-12
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Research and Development Indicators
1!
Total Stock7 per 10,000   P  esonnel Engaged in R &  Total Expen- Sources of R & D Expenditures in %
population          D-per 10,000 population  ditures for                   of total
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ _   __ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ R   &   D   as  
Country              Year     Scientists &               Scientists &                 of GNP
Engineers   Technicians   Enaineers    Technicians                Government   Enterprise       Other
URUGUAY                1971          69.4         104.8          3.9          3.7         0.2          67.5         18.5          14.0
CHILE                  1969           ...           ...         5.1           1.4         ...          ....
ARGENTINA              1972         139.2         763.0          3.0          4.1          1.1          ...
BRAZIL                 1974          58.5         127.3         0.8           ...         0.3          89.7            -          10.3
PERU                   1970         57.0           40.2         1.2           0.8         0.4           ...          ...           ...
MEXICO                 1971         115.9         100.9         0.8           1.4         0.2          94.5          4.1           1.4
SINGAPORE              1974           ...         109.2         1.7           ...         ...           ...          ...
NEW ZEALAND            1973          27.4          27.0         10.0          ...         0.8          78.6         21.4             _
SPAIN                  1972           ...            .,         2.6           0.7         0.3          52.7         45.9           1.4
UNITED STATES          1973          76.2           ...        24.7           2.6         2.3          54.0         42.4           3.6
i/ Public and Private Sector.
2/ Research and Development.
,.. Not available.
Source: Unesco, Statistical Yearbook 1975.
May 22, 1978



50                         ANNEX 1
Table T-13
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LATU Facilities
Facilities              Specific                                   General
Central          Technical       Industrial
Sub-Sectors                                                 Chemical        Information      Design and
and Industries           Pilot Plants   Laboratories       Laboratory         Service         Packaging
Food Industries
Dairy Products              x               y
Fruits & Vegetables         y               y
Meat & Meat Products        X
Textiles
Wool                                        x
Leather
Leather and Derived                                            Y                                 Z
Industries                  Y               Y
Process Industries
Glass & Ceramics
Wood Processing
Paper & Pulp                x
Detergents, Soaps &
Cleaning Products
Fertilizers
Plastics & Elastomers
X = Entirely new facilities.
Y = Existing facilities that will be expanded and housed in new buildings.
Z = New facilities that will be lodged in existing buildings.
May 22, 1978



-51-
ANNEX I
Table T-14
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Technological Development
(man-months)
Total     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982
SPECIALISTS
Dairy Industry                     18         3        6         6         3        -
Fruits & Vegetables                 6         -        -         -         3        3
Meat & Meat Products                9         -        -         -         6        3
Leather & Leather Products         24         -        -         -        12       12
Process Engineering                 9         -        -         -         6        3
Textiles                           14         -        -         -         9        5
Packaging & Industrial
Design                          16        -         -         -         8        8
Information & Commerciali-
zation Services                 28        4        12         4        4         4
Metrology                          12         -        3         3         3         3
Materials Testing                   8         -        2         2         2        2
TOTAL                             144         7       23        15        56       43
FELLOWSHIPS
Dairy Industry                     24         -       12        12         -        -
Fruits & Vegetables                36         -       12         -        12       12
Meat & Meat Products               15         -        3        12         -        -
Leather & Leather Products         66         -       36        18        12
Process Engineering                12         -        -        12         -
Textiles                           15         -       12         3         -
Packaging & Industrial
Design                          33         3        6        12       12
Information & Commerciali-
zation Services                 30        9        21         -        -
Chemical Laboratory                30         -        9        15         6
Management & Technical
Research                         6         3        3         -        -
Metrology                          12         -        6         6         -
Materials Testing                  15         -        3         6         6        -
TOTAL                             294        15      123        96        48       12
COST
Specialists:  12.00 man-years at US$57,375 per year = US$688,500.
Fellowships:  24.50 man-years at US$21,061 per year = US$516,700.
TOTAL                                                     US$1,205,200
May 22, 1978



-52-                                                             ANNEX I
Table T-15
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LATU Program of Activities
SECTOR                     SUIB-SECTORS                CHIEF PROBLEMS               SERVICES CURRENTLY             FUTURE                           FACILITIES
WITHIN TilE                 OFFERED BY LATU               PLANNED                           TO RE
SUB-SECTOR                                               ACTIVITIES                       PROVIDED
Food industries            Dairy products              - poor quality               - quality control             - development and/or         - pilot plant
- lack of hygiene              of  products                 adaptation of                for developing
- inadequate sain-           - tech.ical advisory           technologica for             now products and
tepance of plants            services to the              products and                 processes and for
- low standards of             Ministry of Indus-           processes                    crouble-shouting
manageleint                  try in qualifying          - increased capacity           productios problems
- unsuitable design            investment projects          for the production           in exiating plants
of products and              of national interest         and diatribution           - corplementary laboratory
packaging                    (entitled to ex-             of ferments                  equipment
emption from              - advice on design          - building complex
certain taxes               and maintenance
and customs duties)         of plants and
- preparation and              selection of
distribution of              equipment
cheese fe-ments            - chacking of milk
- advice on equip-             quality control
ment and plant               analyses dome at
design                       industrial plants
- granting of the              (programs to esta-
plant sanitary                blish quality-
certificates                  based price dif-
required to export            ferentials for the
raw material)
- strengthering of
tho other services
currently provided
Fruits and                  - poor quality               - quality control            - development and/cr         - chemical analysis
Vegetables                  - lack of hygiene            - trouble-shooting             adaptation of                equipment for
poor design of                                            technologies fer             improving quality
packaging                                                 products and                 control, allowing
processing problems                                       processes                    to achieve the
- under utilioation                                       - advice on equip-             proposed research
of the raw materials                                      ment selection               lines and helping
- idle capacity during                                      and plart design             in trouble-shooting
certain periods of                                      - development of               production problems.
the year because of                                       new varieties of           - building complex
insouffiant diver-                                        fruits and vega-
sification                                                tables better
suited to indus-
trial processing
(in ceojunction
with the Inatit.ot
de Colomioacion and
the Las Brcjsn
Experimental Sta-
tion, both bolonging
to the Ministry of
Agriculture).
These bodies will pro-
vide the different
varieties of raw
materiala and LATU
is to determine
which offer higher
yields asd better
product quality
after processing
- strengthening of the
services currently
provided



-53-
ANNEX I
Table T-15
Page 2 of 3
SECTOR                      SUB SECTOR                  CHIEF PROBLEMS                SERVICES CURRENTLY               FUTURE                         FACILITIES
WITHIN THE                  OFFERED BY LATU                 PLANNED                           TO BE
SUB-SECTOR                                                 ACTIVITIES                      PROVIDED
heat and meat               - lack of hygiene             - detection of                - development of              - pilot plant to
products                    - low standards of              contaminants                  non-traditional              work on new
management                   and pesticide                 manufacturing                 processes
- excessive con-               residues                      processes, es-             - building complex
centration of              - bacteriological               pecially for the
processing                   and chemical                  utilization of
plants in urban              inspection of                 by-products
areaa                        sausages                    - strengthening of the
- failure to utilize                                         services currently
by-products                                                provided
Textiles                    Wool                         - poor development             NONE                        - quality control,            - laboratory equipment
of local produc-                                         - advice on fabric              to study physical
tion of plain and                                          and clothing                  properties and to
mixed woollen                                              design                        identify the
fabrics and                                                                              different categories
clothing                                                                                 of fiber in the
- poor design of                                                                           various fabrics
clothing                                                                               - building complex
Leather and related         All                          - need to improve            - quality control             - quality control             - additional pilot
industries                                                 quality and design         - studies on cowhide          - technical assistance          plant and laboratory
of shoes, garments           finishing processes           in solving production         equipment to study
and other leather            at pilot plant scale          problems in cowides           all stages of tanning
products.                    and within existing           and sheep skin                and finishing processes
lag in development           companies                     tanning and finishing         for cowhide and sheep-
of sheepskin                                             - advice on desing of           skin
processing                                                 original leather
industries                                                 goods fashions



-54-                                                         A 1 5
Page 3 of 3
SECTOR                      SUB-SECTOR                  CHIEF PROBLEMS               SERVICES CURRENTLY              FUTURE                         FACILITIES
WITHIN THE                  OFFERED BY LATU               PLANNED                           TO BE
SUB-SECTOR                                                ACTIVITIES                      PROVIDED
Process Industries          Glass and ceramics          - unsuitable design             NONE                       - advice for the             - building complex
of plants                                                 industrial design           - the facilities of the
- Inadequate quality                                        of new products               general laboratories
control during                                          - technical assistance          will be used as well
processing of raw                                         for the development           as the services of
materials                                                  of process control           the department of
packaging and
industrial desigo
Pulp and paper              - inadequate quality           NONE                        - initially, quality
control                                                   control only                - the equipment of the
- need to develop                                         - agreements will be            general laboratories
processes for                                              sought with the              will be used
producing different                                       Argentine Technologi-
types of paper from                                       cal Institute for
local varieties of                                        the use of its
wood                                                       pulp and paper pilot
plant in order to de-
velop or adapt tech-
nologies.
Wood processing             - defective treat-           - some studies are            - technical assistance
scent of wood in             currently under-              for the improvement        - the equipment
parquet production           way using an                 of processes                  of the process
existing pilot               currently used                engineering pilot
drier                                                      plant will be used
Detergents, soap            - need to substitute         - quality control            - quality control
and cleaning                  imported materials                                      - development and/or          - the equipment
products                      as much as possible                                        adaptation of new            of the general
with local raw                                            technologies                  laboratories and
materials                                               - technical assis-              of the process
(glycerine, fatty                                         tance to solve                engineering pilot
acids, herbal                                            production problems           plant mill be used
extracts, etc.)
This in turn is
based on a more
rational marketing
of meat, which is
currently sold on the
domestic market with
all its fat
Fertilizers                 - need to develop              NONE                        - quality control
appropriate                                             - assistance in               - the equipment of the
fcroulatiocs                                              formulating the               general laboratories
mixtures                     and the process
engineering pilot
plant will be used
Plastics                    - lack of know-bow             NONE                       - quality control
in small fims for                                       - technical ats-              - The equipment of the
solving production                                        tance to small firms          general laboratories
problems                                                                                and the process engi-
neering pilot plant
will be used.
1,' The building coisple will be used for all Process Industries.
May 22, 1978



-55-
ANNEK 1
Table T-16
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Percentage Contribution of Selected Industries to GDP, Exports and Employment
GDP (1976)  Exports (in value) 1976  Employment (1975)
Industrial           Total                Industrial
1.  Food Industry (1.1-1.3)         17.4              26.7                     14.4 4I
1.1 Dairy Products                   4.2               0.7                      2.4
1.2 Fruits and Vegetables            1.5               1.5                      0.8
1.3 Meat and Meat Products          11.7              24.5                     11.2 4/
2.  Textiles and Garments           18.5              24.0 2/                  13.2
3.  Leather, Leather Garments                              3/
and Shoes                        7.1              20.1 -                   9.1
4.  Process Industries1/            24.6               3.8                     19.9
TOTAL (1-4)              67.6              74.6                     56.6
1/ Includes only paper, plastics, rubber, chemicals, petro-chemicals, glass,
ceramics, cement.
2/ Includes wool.
3/ Includes hides and skins.
4/ In 1968.
5/ In 1974.
Sources: Central Bank, Direccion General de Comercio Exterior and mission estimates.
May 22, 1978



-56-                       ANNEX 1
Table T-17
URUGUAY                       Page 1 of 2
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statement and Balance Sheets of LATU
I. Income Statement--Actual 1974-76 (in current US$'000)
REVENUES                                           1974      1975     1976
1.  Quality control of exports                           322.1    467.3    788.0
2.  Control of duty free raw material imports            269.6    362.7    453.4
3.  Control of duty free equipment imports                53.1     58.4      56.3
4.  Sales of other services                                o.6      0.5       9.1
5.  Others (i.e. interest)                               113.7    196.3    131.7
TOTAL                               759.1  1,085.1  1,438.5
COSTS
6.  Salaries        1/                                   123.0    137.7    165.0
7.  Social Security-                                      36.8     47.1      56.2
8.  Utilities                                              3.8      7.2       9.6
9.  Materials                                              7.2     10.8      33.4
10.  Maintenance Equipment                                  1.0      6.o      85.0
11.  Maintenance Building                                   1.0      2.0      16.6
12.  Others                                                25.0     32.0      56.9
Subtotal                                         197.8    242.8    422.7
13.  Depreciation Equipment                                   -        -    169.6
14.  Depreciation Building                                    -        -      16.6
TOTAL                              197.8    242.8    608.9
Net Revenue (loss)                                        561.3    842.3    829.6
1/ Includes 13th and 14th salary.
Source: LATU, mission estimates
May 22, 1978



-57-                        ANNEX 1
Table T-17
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Statement and Balance Sheets of LATU
II. Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1974-76 (in Thousands)
1974                   1975                   1976
ASSETS                   NUr$      US$          NUr$        US$        NUr$        US$
Fixed Assets (net)      401.7       330.3    1,870.1       813.4    2,206.5      649.9
Current Assets
Cash                 986.4       811.2      360.8      156.9    3,173.8       934.8
Debtor                21.2        17.4       15.6         6.8       25.0        7.4
Tftulo Hipotecario     2.1         1.7    1,126.4      490.0    1,563.5       460.5
Others                 6.6         5.4       15.6        6.8       194.6       57.3
Total Assets        ,48.       1,166.     3,388.5    1,473.9   -T,163.4  - 2,109.9
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities:
Accounts Payable      35.2        28.9       69.3        30.2       79.1       23.2
Long term debt              -           _          _           -
Reserves                 14.1        li.6       27.4       11.9        41.4       12.2
Fondo Patrimonial     1,368.7    1,125.5    3,291.8    1,431.5    7,042.9    2,074.5
Total Liabilities  1,418.0    1,166.0    3,388.5    1,473.9    7,163.4    2,109.9
(Exchange Rate)       ( 1.216  =     1.0)   (2.299  =  1.0 )    (3.395   =   1.0 )
RATIO
Current Assets/
Current Liabilities    28.9                   21.9                   62.6
Source: LATU
May 22, 1978



-58                                                             ANNEK 1
Table T-18
URUGUAY                                                            Page 1 of 3
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Proiections of LATU for 1977-85
(in 1977 US$000)
I. Income Statement
REVENUES                                       1977          1978        1979         1980        1981        1982         1983         1984         1985
1/
1.  Quality control of exports                 2/            976.0     1,171.2      1,288.3      1,417.1      1,558.8      1,714.7     1,886.2      2,074.8      2,282.2
2.  Control of duty free raw material import7                354.2        379.0       405.5        433.9        464.2        496.7        531.5       568.7        608.5
3.  Control of duty free equipment imports 3-                 60.2         64.5        69.0         73.8         79.0         84.5        90.4         96.7        103.5
4.  Sales of other services                                   10.9         13.1         15.7        18.9         22.6         33.9         50.9         76.3       114.4
5.  Others (i.e. interest)                                    10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0
TOTAL                               1,411.3     1,637.8      1,788.5      1,953.7      2,134.6      2,339.8     2,569.0      2,826.5      3,118.6
COSTS
6.  Salaries        41                                       214.0       437.9        594.8        713.8      1,008.6      1,022.3      1,079.5     1,079.5      1,079.5
7.  Social Security-                                         107.0        219.1       297.6        357.1        504.6        511.5       540.0        540.0        540.0
8. Utilities                                                  10.0         22.6         24.3        27.7         41.1         43.9         47.2         51.8        57.1
9. Materials                                                  40.0        45.5         53.1         62.7         82.0         88.1         94.8        102.3       110.5
10.  Maintenance Equipment                                     85.0         85.0        85.0         85.0         85.0        305.0       305.0        305.0        305.0
11.  Maintenance Building                                      16.6         16.6         16.6        16.6         16.6         60.6         60.6        60,6         60.6
12. Others                                                     80.0        120.5       141.3        166.9        213.6        230.2        244.7        261.0       280.9
Subtotal                                             552.6        947.2      1,212.7      1,429.8     1,951.5      2,261.6      2,371.8      2,400,2      2,433.6
13.  Depreciation Equipment                                   169.6        169.6       169.6        169.6        169.6        440.0       440.0        440.0        440.0
14.  Depreciation Building                                     16.6         16.6        16.6         16.6         16.6         60.6         60.6        60.6         60.6
TOTAL                                 738.8     1,133.4      1,398.9      1,616.0      2,137.7     2,762.2      2,872.4      2,900.8      2,934.2
Net Revenue (loss) before interest                           672.5        504.4       389.6        337.7        (3.1)      (422.4)      (303.4)       (74.3)       184.4
Interest                                                         -            -        26.5        124.8        325.2        559.7       535.9        523.8        462.2
Net profits (Loss)                                           672.5        504.4       363.1        212.9      (328.3)      (982.1)      (839.3)     (598.1)      (277.8)
1/  0.3% on non-traditional exports, which are estimated to grow an annual 20% in 1977 and 1978,
and an annual 10% through 1985.
2/ 1% of the goods temporarily imported as inputs for manufacturing export products. The volume of these
imports is expected to grow 7% per year through 1985.
3/ 1% of the CIF value of industrial equipment imported under tax exempt measures. The annual growth
rate is estimated to be 7%.
4/ Includes 13th and 14th salary.
Source:   LATU, mission estimates.
May 22, 1978



-59-
URUGUAY                                                           ANNE  1
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   Page 2 of 3
Financial Projections of LATU for 1977-85
(in 1977 US$OOO)
II.  Sources and Uses of Funds
1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982       1983        1984       1985
SOURCES
Net Profits                                      672.5        504.4        363.1        212.9       (328.3)      (982.1)   (839.3)    (598.1)   (277.8)
Add Depreciation                                 186.2        186.2        186.2        186.2        186.2         500.6     500.6       500.6      500.6
Subtotal                                     858.7        690.6        549.3         399.1       (142.1)      (481.5)   (338.7)       (97.5)    222.8
Borrowings
Banco Hipotecario                                 -       210.7        441.2         598.4        681.1         41.3                       -
World Bank                                        -         43.6        657.4      1,777.8      2,369.9        552.5            -          _          -
Others                                            -            -            -            -            -            -           -      450.0      400.0
Subtotal--Borrowings                              -       254.3      1,098.6      2,376.2      3,051.0         592.8           -      450.0      400.0
Increase in accounts payable                       2.3          2.6          2.8          3.1          3.4           3,7       4.1         4.5         5.0
Increase Fondo Patrimonial
and Reserves                                 104.3         109.5        115.1        120.8        126.8        133.2      139.8       146.9      154.2
Decrease Current Assets other than cash              -                                      -            _                   746.1       148.5
TOTAL SOURCES                         965.3      1,057.0      1,765.8      2,899.2      3,039.1         248.2     551.3        652.4      782.0
USES
Repayment
Banco Hipotecario                                                                                 250.0        250.0      250.0       250.0      250.0
World Bank                                                                                            -        450.0      450.0       450.0      450.0
Subtotal                                                                                          250.0        700.0      700.0       700.0      700.0
Increase Fixed Assets                                -        563.4      1,711.0      2,950.8      3,434.8        540.1           -           -          -
Increase Current Assets other than cash           52.5         57.8         63.5        -69.9         76.9         84.6           -
TOTAL USES                             52.5        621.2      1,774.5      3,020.7      3,761.7       1,324.7      700.0       700.0      700.0
Increase (Decrease) in Cash                     912.8         435.8         (8.7)      (121.5)      (722.6)   (1,076.5)   (148.7)         (47,6)      82.0
May 22, 1978



-60-
ANNEX 1
Table T-18
URUGUAY                                                        Page 3 of 3
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Projections of LATU for 1977-85
(in 1977 US$'000)
III.  Balance Sheets as of December 31. 1977-85
1977        1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                   1,847.6      2,283.4      2,274.7     2,153.2      1,430.6        354.1        205.4        157.8        239.8
Debtors                                    8.2          9.0          9.9         10.9         12.0         13.2         14.5         16.0        16.0
Portfolio (Titulos Hipotecarios)         506.5        557.2        612.9        674.2        741.6       815.8         58.3           8.3          8.3
Others                                    63.0         69.3         76.2         83.8         92.2        101.4        111.5         11.5        11.5
Subtotal                            2,425.3      2,918.9     2,973.7      2,922.1      2,276.4      1,284.5        389.7        193.6        275.6
Fixed Assets
Building & Equipment                     649.9      1,027.1      2,551.9     5,316.5      8,565.1      8,919.0      8,418.4      7,917.8      7,417.2
-Less: Depreciation                       186.2        186.2        186.2        186.2        186.2       500.6        500.6        500.6        500.6
Subtotal                              463.7        840.9     2,365.7      5,130.3      8,378.9      8,418.4      7,917.8      7,417.2      6,916.6
TOTAL ASSETS                     2.889.0     3,759.B      5.339.4      8.052.4    10,655.3       9,702.9      8.307.5      7.610.8      7,192.2
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                          25.5         28.1         30.9         34.0         37.4        41.1         45.2         49.7         54.7
Domestic Borrowings
Banco Hipotecario                          -          210.7        651.9     1,250.3      1,681.4      1,472.7      1,222.7        972.7        722.7
Others                                     -            -            -            -            -            -           -          450.0        850.0
Foreign Borrowings
World Bank                                 -           43.6        701.0      2,478.8     4,848.7    4,950.2        4,500.2      4,050.2      3,600.2
Reserves                                     12.8         13.4         14.1         14.8         15.5        16.3          17.1         18.0        18.9
Fondo Patrimonial                         2,178.2      2,287.1      2,401.5      2,521.6      2,647.7    2,780.1       2,919.1      3,065.1      3,218.4
Retained Earnings!1 (Accumulated
Losses)                                     *          672.5      1,176.9      1,540.0     1,752.9    1,424.6          442.5       (396.8)      (994.9)
Profit (Loss) of the Year                   672.5        504.4        363.1        212.9       (328.3)    (982.1)        (839.3)      (598.1)     (277.8)
TOTAL LIABILITIES               2.889.0      3.759.8      5,339.4      8.052.4    10,655.3    9,702.9         8,307.5      7,610.8      7,192.2
*   Included in Fondo Partimonial
1/ Net of losses of previous years
May 22, 1978



-61-                                                 ANNEX 1
Table T-19
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule for Technological Development
Activity                 Calendar Year         1978          1979           1980          1981           1982           1983
Semester       1    2      1 1    2         1    2        1    2         1    2         1    2
CONSTRUCTION
1. Architectural Design                   XXXXXX000000  100001
2. Detailed Engineering                          XXXXXX
3. Civil Works Tendering &
Approval                                                    XXXXJDi
4. Building Construction                                               1XX001000100   00WXXX0XX000
FURNITURE
1. Listing, Specifications &
Tendering                                            XXXXIOO1XXXXX
2. Manufacturing & Delivery                                            110000XXXX                               4
EQUIPMENT
u             -
1. Listing, Specifications &                                                                     c
Tendering                                             XX001XX1001
2. Manufacturing & Delivery                                            x10000000000
3. Installation of Equipment &
Furniture                                                                          0Y 00X    0
ADMINISTRATION
1. Establishment of Project Unit                 XXXXXX
2. Project Administration                                XX1020110000 1XXXXXXX110  XXXXX00XXXXX  XXXXXX00 X00X
3. Staff Recruitment                             1000  I000XX0X  X30000000000
4. New Organization of LATU                      XXX10
5. New Accounts & Budget System                         X1000
OPERATIONS
1. New Facilities                                                                                   100000000000
2. Information Services                                        X00000  X10000000  0XX0000000  100000000
3. Assistance to Industries               1000X000         0            0001001 10 000  XX1X0000
4. Technical Advisory Committee                                XXX00X 1XI000100XXX 300X0      0    100000000000
5. Research                                                                                         100000000000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Expert Recruitment & Activities    2 W 0111 X10000000Y0  300000000000  1000000000  XXXX10
2. Preparation & Execution of
Fellowship Plan                               X00  XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXX00XXXXX00  1000
EVALUATION
1. Continuous Evaluation Plan                                   000  iooooooo  Ma ooopooXXXoXoXXXXoo
2. Completion Report                        _XXXXXX                                                                             ; 0oo
May 22, 1978






-62-                                                                                Table T-20
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates (US$'OOO)
I. Summary
Net Area       Site        Civil    Professional                                       Technical Assistance                          Project                 Total Coat
in ox2        Works       Works       Services        Furniture      Equipment    Specialists   Fellowships          Studies        Administ.         US$ 000       NUr$'000.2.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CONPONENT2!                  3,079           71.4        940.0         102.1           66.8          531.9j 1,141.3                  114.0          310.0           462.3            3,739.8    20,568.9
Vocational Training Center                     3,079           71.4        940.0        102.1            66.8          404.5             -              -              -               -               1,584.8      8,716.4
Mobile Units                                      -            -            -            -               -             117.1             -             -               -               -                 117.1         644.0
Technical Assistance                               --                               -                                   -             1,141.3         114.0            -               -               1,255.3      6,904.2
Studies                                           -            -                                                        -                -             -              310.0            -                 310.0      1,705.0
Project Administration                            -            -            -            -               -              10.3             -             -               -             462.3               472.6      2,599.3
TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT2/            5,287          210.9       2,109.5       487.4           190.3        4.062.6           8868.5         516.7            -              497.4            8,943.3    49,188.1
Physical Installations                         5,287         210.9        2,109.5       487.4           190.3        4,062.6             -             -               -               -               7,060.7    33,833.8
Technical Assistance                              -            -             -           -               -              -               688.5         516.7            -               -               1,205.2       6,628.6
Specialist Services for Physical                  -            -             -           -               -              -               180.0          -               -               -                 180.0        990.0
Plant Design
Project Administration                            --                         -           -               -              -                -             -               -             497.4               497-4      2,735.7
Base Cost4/                                       _          282.3       3.049.5        589.5          257.1         4,594.5         2,009.8          630.7           310.0           959.7           12,683.1    69,757.0
Physical Contingencies                         -           28.2         305.0         58.9           25.7           459.4           201.0           63.1            31.0            96.0            1,268.3      6,975.7
(%)                                                        (10)           (10)        (10)           (10)            (10)             (10)          (10)            (10)            (10)               (10)         (10)
Base Cost plus Physical Contingencies             -          310.5        3.354.5       648.4           282.8        5.053.9          2,210.8         693.8           341.0         1,055,7           13,951.4    76,732.7
Price Contingencies                            -            9.4         661.7         72.4           60.0           913.5           414.2          136.4            58.7           189.7           2,516.0    13,838.0
(M)                                                       (3.0)       (19.72)      (11.16)        (21.22)        (18.07)          (18.73)        (19.66)         (17.2)         (17.97)            (18.03)        (18.0)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                       -          319.9       40_16.2        720.8          342.8        5.967.4          2,625.0          830.2          399.7         1,245.4           16,467.4    90,570.7
Foreign Exchange Component                        -            25.6       1,052.7       275.3           137.1        5,669.1          2,493.6         788.7           267.8           187.9          10,897.8    59,937.9
(7)                                                          (8.0)         (26.2)      (38.2)         (40.0)          (95.0)           (95.0)        (95.0)          (67.0)         (15.09)             (66.2)       (66.2)
1/ US$1.00 = NUr$5.5 (April 1, 1978).
2/ For further details see Table T-18(2).
3/ For further detaile see Table T-18(3).
4/ Expressed in prices as of April 1, 1978.
May 22, 1978






-63 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-20
Page 2 of 3
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TEChROLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Copitcl Cost EatitA-es (US1OOO)
11. Vocational Traicing Cesponent
Technical Assistance                                Total Cost
T-ci-ee    Net           Site         Civil     Pofe.Pjt
Places   Anea (m2)    Works        WNeks         Fees      Furniture Eqcippenct  Sprainiit- Fello-hipo Studies  Adsinist-.  US$'000               SUro'000-
V-cateoo-l Trainsi  Cecter                     320       3,079         71.4       940.0       102.1         66.8       404.5             -                -           -             1,584.8      8,716.4
Mobile Uc-t1 -                                                                        -                                117.1                                                                       644.0
Technical A-sistacce                                                      -           -            -           -           -      1,141.3       114.0            -          -      1,255,3       6,904,2
Stadi-                                                                                -                                    -             -          -       310.0           -         310.0      1,705.0
Project Adnicist-atien                                                    -           -            -           -        10,3             -          -           -      462.3         472.6      2,599.3
4/
5ase Poot                                                         71.4        940.0       102.1        66.8       531.9       1.141.3      114.0        310.0     462.3        3,739.8    20,568.9
Ph-i-cal Coloienc-ejis                                           7.1        94.0         10.2         6.7        53.2         114.1       11.4        31.0       46.2          374.0      2,057.0
( .)                                                (110)        (0)         (10)         (10)        (10)         (10)        (10)        (10)       (10)           (10)         (10)
BOne Cost PIns Phv-ical
Coneincenclee                                                   78.5    1,034.0        112.3         73.5       585.1      1,255.4       125.4       341.0      508.5       4,113.6    22,625.9
Peoce Coetococncooo                                              5.5       234.7         17.2        16.5       127.0        222.2        22.2        58.7      102.7          806.7     4,436.8
(71                                                 (7.0)      (22.7)      (15.3)      (22.5)       (21.7)       (17.7)     (17,7)       (17.2)    (20.2)         (19.6)        (19.6)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                04.0    1.268,0         129.5        90         712 1       1140.6                   399 7       611 2       4           27,062.7
Fqreign E-chae e Cospo-ent                                       6.7       228.4        30.8         36.0       676.5      1,403.7       140.2       267.8       61.1        2,850.2      5,725.6
71)                                                10.0)      (18.0)      (30.0)       (40.0)      (95.01       (95.0)      (95.0)      (67.0)    (10.0)          (58.1)       (08.1)
1/  ussiot -  N1r23.S (April 1, 1978).
2/ Icolodes US$48,0OOo fo de-olition of eornho-se.
3/  lnclodeo US$5,480 fec iostrecti oo.   -tenialo prodoctien at Trinidad Agricolt-ral School.
4/ lopreroed cc pnices os of April 1, 1970.
Kly 22, 1978






-64-                                                                                                         ANNE& I
Table tfr -2
Page 3 of 3
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TEAINLNG AND TECPNOLOGICAL DEYELOPMENT PROJECT
Cavitl Cost stimates 01S$50053
III. Technological .eveloosiest Component
Net Area in a2                                                       Professional                                     Technical Assistance         Project             Total Cost
Laboratories  Pilot Plants        Other          Total         Site Works   Civil Works        Fees       Furniture        Equipoent   Specialieta   Fellowships    Adninlst.            U8$'000       m1r$'0p02-
Physical Inst
Physical Intallatio_s                           1.5            1.687           1,-596         5,287         210.9         2,109.5          487.4         190.3           3,412.6          _                                           6.410.7      35.258.8
Dairy Products                                105             278             182            622
Fruits and Vegetables                          105           525               72            772
Materials Tenting Laboratory                    -              -               -             640
Moat Products                                   -             214              50            290
Leather                                        140           420              193            828
Textiles                                        71             -               47            130
Process Industries                            178              _               26            224
Chemical Laboratories                         840              -              234          1,181
Mechanical and Electrical
Equipacot for Buildings                                                                                   -             -                                            400.0                                                        400.0        2,200.0
Metrology                                                                      -              -                                                                        250.0           -              _              -               250.0       1,375.0
Other                                           -              -              600            600
Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                       -             688.5          516.7           -            1,205.2        6,628.6
Specialist Services for Physical
Plant Design                                                                                                -              -              -             -                -            180.0            -              -              180.0          990.0
Project Administrati-s                                                                                        -              -              -             -                -              -              -             497.4           497.4       2,737.7
3ale       /                                                                                             210.9         2,109.5          487.4         190.3          4,062.6         868.5          516.7           497.4         8.943.3      49,188.1
Physical Contingencies                                                                                21.1            211.0           48.7          19.0            406.3          86.8           51.7           49.7            894.3       4,918.6
(1                                                                                                    (10)            (10)            (10)         (15)              (10)          (20)           (10)           (15)             (15)          (10)
Ease Cost plus PhYsical Contingencies                                                                    232.0         2,320.5          536.1         209.3          4,468.9         955.3          568.4           547.1         9,837.8      54,106.9
3.9          427.0           55.2          43.5             786.5         192.0          114.2           87.0          1,709.3       9,401.1
Price Conti.genci-                                                                                    (1.7)          (18.4)         (10.3)        (20.8)           (17.6)        (20.1)         (20.1)         (15.9)           (17.3)        (17.3)
235.9        2  747.5          591.3         252.8          5.254         1,147.3          682.6          634.1         11,546.9      63,508.0
F .. ig  Exa.Componen t                                                                              18.9           824.3          236.5         101.1          4,992.6        1,089.8          648.3          126.8         8,038.6      44,212.3
F(oreign Exchange CPIpponeot                                                                             l8(8)            (30)           (40)          (40)             (95)       1,08 (95)         (95)            (20)          (69.6)        (69.6)
1/ Includes 10% additional area for each space except "other" to permit flexibility.
2/ US$1.00 = NUr$5.5 (April 1, 1978).
3/ Expressed in prices as of April 1, 1978.
May 22, 1978






-65-
ANNEX 1
Table T-21
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Accumulated      Undisbursed
Fiscal Year    Semester    Disbursements    Disbursements          Balancel/
1979            1              .54.9              54.9          9,645.1
2             385.1              440.0          9,260.0
1980            1              995.6           1,435.6          8,264.4
2           1,328.1            2,763.7          6,936.3
1981            1           1,632.6            4,396.3          5,303.7
2           2,486.9            6,883.2          2,816.8
1982            1           1,544.3            8,427.5          1,272.5
2           1,212.4            9,639.9             60.1
1983            1               60.1           9,700.0              -
2
1/ At the end of each semester.
May 22, 1978



WE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
i E                     ][]                    __
........2 
0-~~~~~3 - e 0



-67-
ANNEX 1
Chart C-2
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Relationship of COCAP to Other Public and Private Entities11
Mini-rv of Ed-cat-on
I l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- -----  Miniity    o1 Educabn~  (212 
National Council of                                                                      Vocational Traire9        --------------   niatry of Labor 11)
Ed-raloE-d CONAE                                                                          Council--COCAP             -------  ----- Ministryof Inductry              Pubtlic
IFormal Educatlon System)                                                              (Non-Formal Trai-gSyrster)                         and Energy t1)               Sectar
___ --^----.  National Pl-nning
Semrt-rat tl I     
S  _  l   1                           Chaerber of Indu -ries (2)
Primary                   Secondary VFonrll Technical-                |              Higher                                           i                    Private
Education                  Educaion                     Ezucation                   Educaton                                  Private Agricultural          Semtor
Council                     Council                 Council --UTU                   Council                                    (n2)iturions t2i         |
1_ For nt-rnalI organiraronal structure of COCAP, se Chart C-3.
2I Numbers n parenthes-s indicate number of recrearoratines to which
eacn enrich is entitled on the Board of COCAP. The two repres
ationsofthrMin-ry of Egcaton would be I  Diractorat CONAE
talsn Ch -orman  COCAP's Board) and UTU                                                                                                                                           W.,td 8-k - 18887



-68-
ANNEX 1
Chart C-3
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Structure of the Vocational Training System (COCAP)
[|      rI Induastria I       _  _                  National Vocational   L                          National Planning
[     Advsory Groups        fTraining Board*                                                             Secretariat
Director                                 Project Implementation
Executing Unit                                       Unit            |
Planning                                         Administration
Manpower Needs                                   Personnel                                       IOn-Center
Occupational                                     Finance                                            In-Plant
Analysis                                                                                            I-ln
Curricula                                        Procurement                                      Mobile Action
Standards                                        Inventories                                      Trade Testing
Course Program-                                  Maintenance                                      Public Relations
ing                                              Transport
Control and                                      Construction
Evaluation
Selection and
Orientation
Instructor
Training
Documentation                                           Liaison
Includes Ministriesof Labor, Industry, Agriculture, Education (UTU), Chamber
of Industries, Agricultural Institutions and National Planning Secretariat.                         World Bank - 18409



-69-                                                                    CANNEX 1
URUGUAY                                                                     Chart C-4
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Structure of LATU
M--,sr of I nd-,t
|  Plannmg  1-~~~~~  {     d.  1l.epbl e
i        / i                                    L    rl I %  _l I %~~~~~~~~~t-1olD.
*Ap ountam  Fules                                                 Ttshn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~raiical &  Toofln,oal  Proolot,oo     Food  fTa,ornt  Task Fo,o
Bodgor,n                                                                                                       Tro,Eg   ehnolPsV
and~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PTCkarng   &    lnd   D-e-gn
WorldBStk t1604



-70-                        ANNEX 2
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Sub-sector
A 1 - Education in Uruguay, Unesco, March 1974.
A 2 - Presupuesto por Programas, Quinquenio 1973-77, Universidad del
Trabajo del Uruguay, Agosto 1972.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project by the Government
and its Consultants
B 1 - Proyecto de Desarrollo Tecnol6gico y Capacitaci6n Profesional,
Secretarla de Planeamiento, Coordinacion y Difusion/BIRF,
Rep'ublica Oriental del Uruguay, Agosto 1977 (2 volumes of text
and 2 volumes of annexes).
C. Selected Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff or Consultants
C 1 - Documentos de Trabajo--Componente Desarrollo Tecnologico.
C 2 - Documentos de Trabajo--Componente Capacitacion Profesional.
C 3 - Economic Memorandum on Uruguay, December 1977.
C 4 - Evaluation of Investment Projects in Science and Technology
Infrastructure: The Utility-Efficiency Approach and Its
Application in Uruguay, September 1977.



BRD 13426
APRSL 1978
- .  -    .  -  }f    s                       <+                 .                                        SU R U G  U h 
ARTIGAS~~~'~URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
E'C   - OGICA  DEVELOPMENT PRO,,1ECT
-0      ci' ' ogar evi .-okprnent, Center
o     Rv,'Q BoltMobile tit C -ting Off Ve
Z --                                                                                                    somn    y   vjst ;--'-  N  -RAZR
, \ / ~e~ ~J ts o - Dee7tt  gSgdies
.: >w _ << ,' ': p X <\.                          ~-~o                                                            ltioI..o...... . . .  U ..
.RGENIIN4 ATL                                                            NTt oor\:
.   t54/PAYSANDU                          <                                                                   5
W. .z                           g                                              StELO\>
j ~ ~~~                                ~          ~~~ ~ ~                ~         ~~~~~~~    A    R    G    0 R    
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ DE  ARRAlZILe\\   r       t     t      /                       ~    0                                                    e
- ~ ~ ~~~~                                     ~~~~                                                                     p-)NEt}E  ut e Et  ot S
.......... .. AR.GENJINA- .......... .. \ A r Z A a r / C a c E A N w 44tXantor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  w  - - sz  - 0 X 3, 0 OrA \                                           eL                                     an
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _4



