Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2343-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 31, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1, 1978)
Currency Unit - New Pesos (NUr$)
US$1.00        -  NUr$5.5
NUr$1.00       -  US$0.18
NUr$1,000,000 - US$181,818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                 -       10,000 m   - 2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)               5       0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)       =       0.39 square miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                -       2.20 pounds
I liter (1)                    -       0.26 gallons
1,000 kg - I metric ton        -       0.98 long ton
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
COCAP       -   Vocational Training Council
LATU        -   Technological Laboratory of Uruguay
CONAE       -   National Council of Education
SEPLACODI   -   National Planning Secretariat
UTU         -   Labor University of Uruguay
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Amount:             US$9.7 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years grace at
7.5% per annum
Relending
Terms:           Part of the proceeds of the Bank Loan (US$6.8 million
equivalent) would be on-lent to Technological Laboratory of
Uruguay (LATU) on the same terms as the Bank Loan to Uruguay.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Description
and Purpose:     The proposed project aims at enhancing the competitive-
ness of Uruguay's exports by increasing labor productivity,
improving product quality and promoting the use of pro-
duction technologies well suited to the country's require-
ments.  The project would support the initiation of a
national vocational training program to meet the training
needs of the export-oriented industrial sector, assist the
Government and the private sector in selecting appropriate
technologies and in improving and expanding quality control
services for exports. The project would include construc-
tion of training/administrative buildings for the Vocational
Training Council (COCAP), laboratories for LATU, and provi-
sion of equipment and furniture, as well as technical
assistance.
Benefits and       The proposed project is expected to make a substantial
Risks:            contribution to the Government's efforts to rehabilitate
the economy and to expand non-traditional exports. Uncer-
tainties for both components of the project are: (a) the
overall export prospects of Uruguay's non-traditional
products; (b) the response of the private sector to the
new services; and (c) the quality of the managerial and
technical staff of COCAP and LATU. The performance of
the Government since 1974 in promoting non-traditional
exports bodes well for the future, provided that demand
conditions and trade policies in developed countries
do not change substantially. With regard to private
sector response, the participation of industrialists in
the activities of both COCAP and LATU should help foster
a close relationship. As regards quality of management
and staff, LATU's performance to date has been good; the
project includes management assistance to COCAP. The
Government is committed to ensure that salaries are
maintained at levels adequate to attract and retain
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
qualified staff to both agencies; extensive technical
assistance programs for both components would provide
further training and organizational support.
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
…--    (US$ '000)--------
Vocational Training
Vocational Training Center         968.3       616.5   1,584.8
Mobile Training Units                5.9       111.2      117.1
Technical Assistance                62.8    1,192.5   1,255.3
Studies                            102.3       207.7     310.0
Project Administration             416.6        56.0      472.6
Base Cost Estimates        1,555.9    2,183.9   3,739.8
Technological Development
Laboratories and Pilot
Plant Installations            2,280.4   4,780.3   7,060.7
Technical Assistance                 69.3   1,315.9   1,385.2
Project Administration              397.9       99.5      497.4
Base Cost Estimates         2,747.6   6,195.7   8,943.3
Total Base Cost                   4,303.5   8,379.6  12 683.1
Contingencies
Physical                            430.3     838.0   1,268.3
Price                               835.9   1,680.1   2,516.0
TOTAL COST                  5,569.7  10,897.7  16,4674
Financing Plan:                              Mortgage
Government      Bank      LATU    Bank  Total
-------------- (US$ million) --------------
2.0          2.5      2.2      9.7    16.4
Disbursements:      Bank FY         1979    1980    1981    1982        1983
… ---------- (US$ million) -----------
0.4     2.3      4.1      2.8      0.1
Staff
Appraisal Report: No. 1928b-UR, dated May 25, 1978



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN FOR A VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND
TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$9.7 million
to help finance the proposed Vocational Training and Technological Development
Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at an interest of 7.5% per annum. Part of the proceeds of the proposed loan
(US$6.8 million equivalent) would be on-lent to the Technological Laboratory
of Uruguay (LATU) on the same terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (1336a-UR) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 10, 1976. An economic mission visited the country in
May 1978. Its report will be distributed to the Executive Directors in the
near future. A summary of Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economic perform-
ance deteriorated steadily over the past two decades. This was the result of
policies which favored urban consumption and industrial import substitution at
the expense of investment, exports and growth. A literate and predominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment, better pub-
lic services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands took the
form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies which resulted in a transfer
of income away from the resource-rich agricultural and livestock sector.
Industrial sector development, initially stimulated by shortages of consumer
goods during World War II, was subsequently fostered through a deliberate
import substitution and protection policy during the immediate post-war era.
However, by the mid-1950s, economic growth faltered as agricultural production,
productivity and exports declined after the Korean War. Moreover, industrial
import substitution possibilities in the small domestic market were largely
exhausted. Unemployment and underemployment rose sharply. Government pol-
icies aimed at maintaining urban income and consumption levels resulted in
strong inflationary pressures, capital flight and serious misallocation of
resources. During the early 1970s, political and social unrest marked by
urban terrorism and labor strife further discouraged savings and investment
and dampened any initiative to expand output and exports.
4.        Prior to the beginning of the above dislocations, the country's
historical political tradition enabled Uruguay to institute welfare legisla-
tion which molded one of the most even income distribution patterns in



- 2 -
Latin America. Comprehensive legislation covering such areas as social
security retirement and death pensions, job security, unemployment compen-
sation, free health and education services provided effective mechanisms
for redistributing income. Uruguay was thus able to achieve a relatively
high level of social progress as evidenced by an income distribution pattern
which compares favorably with that of some developed countries with consid-
erably higher income per capita. Although Uruguay experienced a drop in
per capita income during the 1960's and early 1970's the country has attained
health (life expectancy at birth of 70 years), educational (94% adult literacy
rate), and nutritional (per capita intake of protein of nearly 100 grams per
day) levels that are comparable to those of some developed countries and above
those of most developing countries.
5.        Despite social progress, the redistribution mechanisms were not
immune to the economic instability that besieged the country--and, in effect,
were a contributing factor in it. The uncoordinated growth of the social
security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant economy and
rapid inflation, brought the system to a very low level of efficiency. Larger
transfers from the Central Government were increasingly needed to provide
benefits to an expanded number of people which nevertheless had a decreasing
real value. In addition to the financial burden on the Government, the high
level of contributions required by the system from employers increased the
real cost of labor. This distortion, coupled with the incentives provided to
the use of capital inherent in the import substitution strategy, acted as an
implicit brake in the creation of employment through more labor intensive
production methods. Moreover, the inadequate level of real benefits, together
with the old-age structure of the population, resulted in a large number of
people working past retirement age and thus limiting the creation of new
employment opportunities for the younger population entering the labor force.
6.        The structural changes in the world economy that began in late 1973
had a staggering impact on the debilitated Uruguayan economy.  The quadrupling
in the price of imported oil (upon which the country is entirely dependent),
substantial increases in other import prices, and the closing of the EEC to
meat imports contributed to a sharp reversal in the balance of payments, a
precipitous deterioration of fiscal performance and to an acceleration of
domestic inflation. These economic upheavals compounded the problems faced
by the Government in overcoming the lingering consequences of the social and
political turmoil which had threatened the country. An economic team appointed
in mid-1974 realized that long-term solutions to the country's economic and
social problems went beyond stabilization and required a fundamental reorienta-
tion of economic management from an inward-looking policy towards an export-
oriented development strategy. The basic objectives of the new program were
the improvement of resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater
reliance on the price mechanism, and the promotion and diversification of non-
traditional exports, i.e., those other than beef and wool. The achievement of
these objectives required the freeing of domestic prices and the liberalization
of the foreign trade and payment system from the burdensome controls instituted
in the past.
7.        Implementation of export-oriented development measures yielded un-
expectedly rapid and positive results in 1975-77, enabling Uruguay to surpass



- 3 -
most of the performance targets embodied in three successive standby agree-
ments with the IMF. Government economic policy during this period concen-
trated on fostering growth in the commodity-producing sectors by eliminating
various types of controls that distorted resource allocation, and by achieving
a more realistic exchange rate in order to promote exports. Quantitative and
financial import controls of raw materials and capital goods were eliminated;
price ceilings on many domestic products were lifted; the policy of mini-
devaluations was actively pursued; interest rates on deposits and loans were
freed; and non-traditional exports were successfullly stimulated through a
system of tax rebates.
8.        Despite the continuation of generally unfavorable external factors,
the economy responded by achieving an annual average GDP growth of nearly 4%
during 1974-76, compared with an annual decline of 0.5% during the previous
four years. Production of nontraditional exports, particularly leather and
textile manufactures, led the recovery of the economy and was instrumental in
bringing about a remarkable turnaround in the external sector in 1976, together
with strong private capital inflows. The overall gain in net foreign exchange
reserves reached US$112 million, compared with a loss of US$73 million in 1975.
Moreover, the inflation rate was reduced to 40% in 1976, from a level of 67%
in 1975 and 107% in 1974, due to a combination of more restrictive monetary
management and incomes policy, and--above all--improving fiscal performance.
The Central Government fiscal deficit was reduced from 4.5% of GDP in 1974-75,
to 2.5% in 1976, notably surpassing the target stipulated in a standby agree-
ment with the IMF. The marked fiscal improvement was brought about by a
combination of increased collection of revenues from the value-added tax and
IMPROME (a tax on imputed income on agricultural land), and the restraint of
current expenditures to the real level of 1975.
9.        The momentum achieved on the external sector and on the fiscal front
continued unabated in 1977 as net foreign exchange reserves registered a
further increase and the fiscal deficit was limited to only 1.3% of GDP; however,
inflationary pressures reappeared. The cost-of-living increase for the year
amounted to 57% compared with 40% in 1976. Part of the upsurge in the price
level was explained by higher food prices. Food supplies were adversely
affected by unusually heavy rains, which damaged many domestic crops, and the
retention of cattlestock by ranchers in the expectation of improved price
prospects for beef. The ensuing shortage of beef also had an upward effect on
the price of beef substitutes. Most importantly, however, the considerable
gain of foreign exchange reserves contributed to a rapid expansion of the
money supply, thereby sustaining inflationary pressures. A combination of
restrictive monetary measures instituted late in the year have proven effec-
tive in significantly reducing price increases during the early part of 1978
and inflation for the year should not surpass 40%.
10.       Although substantial progress has been achieved in implementing the
economic reform program, Uruguay continues to be faced with a high level of
unemployment and underemployment in urban areas, particularly in Montevideo.
The level of open unemployment was about 10.8% in the second half of 1977;
industrial, construction workers and young people seeking work for the first
time are among the hardest hit groups. If the figures for open unemployment



- 4 -
were adjusted to take into account underemployment, the overall equivalent
level of open unemployment would be even higher. The failure of the Uruguayan
economy to provide adequate employment opportunities is more marked if net
emigration is taken into account. Global estimates based on the 1963 and 1975
population censuses placed the total net number of emigrants during this
period at about 200,000, or roughly 7% of the country's population in 1975.
Given the relatively young age structure of the migrants, it is apparent that
emigration has acted as an important safety valve for the labor market, but it
has also deprived the country of a potential source of innovation and growth.
Economic Prospects
11.       The Government's development strategy is that of shifting the
country's economic structure towards a more open, export-oriented model. This
shift will by no means be easy in view of the long-standing and deep-seated
rigidities which Uruguay's economy has acquired over past years. High tariff
protection and cumbersome public sector management will continue to act as
structural obstacles to more rapid growth. Nevertheless, the success in stim-
ulating economic activity and turning around the balance of payments during the
last three years attests to the economy's responsiveness to a consistent set
of signals from the Government and the price mechanism. The key to sustained
growth for the future will depend on the Government's ability to consolidate
the recent gains through longer-term policies. Uruguay's long and difficult
experience in pursuing income distribution policies in the face of a stagnant
economy suggests that the fundamental priority of the authorities over the
coming years is to guide the economy along a path of sustained growth. As this
goal is attained, the task of redistributing the resulting benefits should
prove easier than in the past.
12.       In broad terms, Government policies aim to provide a propitious
economic environment for the exploitation of such advantages as the country's
highly literate labor force, its strategic location between the large markets
of Argentina and Brazil, and a natural resource endowment distinctly suited
to export-oriented agricultural production, including the traditional live-
stock industry as well as the largely untapped potential in crop agriculture,
food and fruit processing and fisheries. This will require that the authori-
ties pursue measures aimed to bring the productive sector of the economy into
closer integration with world markets and increased exposure to international
competitive forces.
13.       Provided that the sound orientation of fiscal, monetary and trade
policies already instituted are consolidated, the Uruguayan economy has the
capacity to grow at faster rates than in recent years (possibly some 4.5% per
year compared with 1.0% during 1971-76). The expansion of both traditional
and non-traditional exports should provide the main avenue for growth. Beef
and wool exports should be encouraged by reasonably favorable price forecasts
and the successful penetration of new beef markets in recent years. Sus-
tained growth of manufacturing output and non-traditional exports should be
possible with the further development of such subsectors as leather products,
textiles, processed foods, fish and other manufacturing goods. Private sector
investment should provide the principal impulse of growth in the coming year
in the form of the rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing



- 5 -
production units rather than the establishment of new, large-scale ventures.
Nevertheless, the public sector will have to play a key supporting role by
channeling financial resources, infrastructure and other complementary services
to the productive sectors. An initial step in this direction was the loan for
an Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project, signed with the Bank
late in 1975 (Loan No. 1176-UR) (paragraph 21). The present project proposal
complements and broadens the Bank's involvement in support of this effort.
14.       Export expansion and diversification will require the modernization
of the country's capital stock. This implies larger requirements for new
plant and equipment, rehabilitation of the existing stock, and for related
intermediate inputs. Despite a projected strong growth of exports, the
country's large import requirements will result in a negative trade balance
during the next few years. In addition, the substantial payments of interest
on past and new external foreign borrowing will mean a current account deficit
in the balance of payments which will average about 3% of GDP during the next
five years. The steady implementation of the economic reform program should
lead to a further enhancement of the international financial community's
assessment of Uruguay's creditworthiness and permit the authorities to obtain
new commitments on favorable terms. Moreover, the sizeable private capital
inflows experienced during the last two years are expected to continue being
attracted by favorable interest rates and the liberalized financial system,
thus contributing to finance the current account deficit. The gross external
capital requirements during 1978-82 would amount to an annual average of
US$325 million. Private capital inflows would average about US$135. Public
external borrowing would cover the remainder. It is expected that about two-
fifths of this would come from existing and new commitments of multilateral
and bilateral agencies. Borrowing from private financial institutions,
suppliers' credits, and government bonds would complete the projected require-
ments.
15.       The remarkable turnaround in Uruguay's balance of payments since
1976 has permitted the authorities to amortize or refinance various commit-
ments contracted on unfavorable terms during the previous years. The volume
of commitments contracted during 1974-75, together with their relatively un-
favorable terms, resulted in a debt service ratio of about 29% in 1976 and 24%
in 1977. The projected expansion of exports during 1978-82, together with
reduced public capital requirements (relative to 1974-75) and more favorable
terms, would result in a reduction in the debt service ratio to 22% in 1978,
and even lower thereafter. The share of public debt outstanding and disbursed
as a proportion of GDP was only 17% in 1975 and should remain at about that
level during the next five years. Under these circumstances, Uruguay would
remain creditworthy for the amounts of external capital required to
rehabilitate the country's capital stock and to achieve sustained economic
and social progress.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
16.       Uruguay has received US$192.9 million (net of cancellations) in
Bank loans. As of April 30, 1978, the Bank held US$91.7 million, including
US$18.8 million undisbursed. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance to Uruguay



(13 loans in total) has mainly been for power (40%) and livestock (35%), with
some lending for industry (16%) and transport (9%). In June 1976, IFC made
its first operation in Uruguay with a US$3.8 million loan to Fabrica Uruguaya
de Neumaticos SA (FUNSA), a manufacturer of tires and other rubber-based
products. The financing is part of a US$12 million program to introduce
radial tire production, increase tire manufacturing capacity and improve
operating efficiency and product quality. Execution of these projects has,
on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans
and the IFC investment as of April 30, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
17.       A loan for a fifth power project is expected to be presented
shortly to the Executive Directors. In addition, work is underway on
transport and agriculture projects for possible consideration by the
Executive Directors during the next two years.
18.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the
Government in implementing an economic strategy designed to put the economy
on a path of sustained growth. Towards this end, all operations are designed
to underpin policies and programs leading to the continued recovery of the
economy within a framework of financial stability. More specifically, the
objectives of the Bank's program are to: (i) foster productive activities
by promoting the expansion and diversification of export earnings; (ii) help
strengthen the country's sectoral policies and public sector institutions;
and (iii) improve and promote the integration of the economy with the large
markets of neighboring Argentina and Brazil, as well as with overseas markets.
19.       The proposed project is designed to support the Government's efforts
to rehabilitate the economy and to expand non-traditional exports in order to
encourage sustained economic growth, rising income and employment. Bank
lending for agriculture is aimed at increasing crop production to assist
Uruguay in achieving self-sufficiency in grains and in increasing and diver-
sifying its export earnings. Bank assistance for power and transport would
help improve the infrastructure needed for sustained economic growth. Bank
lending for power is also designed to help the country meet its growing power
demand, while helping to increase the reliance on local energy sources.
PART III - VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT IN URUGUAY
The Export Sector
20.       Uruguay's improving economic performance in recent years is being
led by the expansion of non-traditional exports, which have increased from
US$87 million in 1973 to nearly US$300 million in 1976. This marked expansion
reflects the success of the Government policies of minidevaluations and export
rebates in stimulating various productive subsectors such as leather and
textiles. Although the authorities are expected to continue this policy in
the future, they have already begun a process of reducing the export rebate
rates in order to foster increased efficiency in the exporting subsectors.
Continued rapid export growth would thus increasingly depend on the ability



of Uruguayan producers to compete in world markets through improved productiv-
ity and product quality. Obsolete equipment (dating many times as far back
as the 1920's), outdated labor skills, and archaic technological processes
are important obstacles to the full realization of the country's export poten-
tial. These limitations are the legacy of Uruguay's traditional protectionism
which is gradually being dismantled, and which should bring about a restruc-
turing of the economy's pattern of production.
21.       The Bank is supporting the export promotion effort through the
Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project (Loan No 1176-UR). This
project, which is under execution, is providing funds to industrial export
enterprises to finance machinery and equipment for expansion and modernization
of plant capacity. The project includes technical assistance to assist the
Government in the evaluation of sub-projects, and in the preparation of an
export expansion program and studies on the effective level of protection for
domestic industries. The loan included originally a line of credit for
imported working capital financing. By 1977, the improved situation of the
balance of payments had enhanced the international financial community's
assessment of Uruguay's creditworthiness and a number of lines of credit
were established for commercial banking institutions at quite attractive
terms. Thus, exporters and industrialists were able to obtain medium- and
long-term financing from alternative sources at more favorable terms than
those envisioned under the Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project.
Furthermore, the appearance of dollar deposits in the banking system and the
aggressive devaluation policy activated a short-term credit line, considerably
more advantageous to the final borrower than the working capital component of
the Bank loan. In view of these developments, upon the Government's request
in February 1977, the Bank agreed to: (i) cancel the undisbursed portion
(US$14.2 million) of the imported working capital component of the loan;
(ii) transfer the repayments of the disbursed portion of the working capital
component (US$10.3 million) to the investment component of the loan; and
(iii) amend some features of the investment financing component to bring the
Bank loan in line with other credit lines made available in Uruguay. Since
then 15 investment sub-projects have been approved. Other major loans for
industrial financing made available to Uruguay include a US$5 million loan
from USAID, approved in 1975, for importation of capital goods for agro-
industries and a US$15 million industrial credit loan from the Inter-American
Development Bank, approved in 1977. The proposed project complements and
broadens the support provided by these loans by improving labor skills and
technological processes for the more outward-oriented sectors.
Vocational Training
22.       Uruguay possesses one of the most developed education systems
in Latin America, having introduced free and universal access to all levels
early in the twentieth century. The 1975 census shows the overall adult
literacy rate to be 94%, including 95% in urban and 90% in rural areas. Until
1973, four autonomous councils were directly responsible to the Minister of
Education for administration of primary, secondary, technical and university
education. Since passage of the 1973 Education Law, a National Council of
Education (CONAE) has been responsible to the Minister of Education for the
coordination of the four councils in the areas of budgeting, planning and



teacher training. Each council retains responsibility for elaborating cur-
ricula and syllabi (under CONAE guidelines), administration and supervision
of schools, and appointment and supervision of teaching staff.
23.       Uruguay has an extensive formal technical education system:  about
22% of all secondary students are enrolled in technical programs and 18% of
university students pursue courses in engineering, natural sciences and agri-
culture. (In Latin America, only Argentina and Brazil have a higher ratio of
technicians per 10,000 population, and only Argentina and Mexico have more
engineers and scientists per 10,000 population). Despite the considerable
effort devoted to technical education, however, the system has some notable
weaknesses: internal efficiency is low, linkages between the educational
institutions and prospective employers are weak and inadequate, and the
emphasis has been almost exclusively on the preparation of young people for
job entry with scant attention paid to the skill upgrading needs of the adult
labor force.
24.       Almost all technical and vocational education in Uruguay is admin-
istered by the Council of Technical and Vocational Education (Labor University
of Uruguay - UTU). UTU has a network of 80 schools and 70 mobile centers,
which enrolled about 37,700 students in 1975; in addition, some 1,200 students
are enrolled in private technical schools. The majority are adolescents
studying formal courses oriented towards job entry at different levels, or
towards higher education. Less than 1% of UTU's students are adults
receiving skill upgrading training.
25.       UTU's productivity is not thought to be high, although this is
difficult to ascertain in the absence of systematic tracer studies or other
feedback mechanisms. Despite some exceptions (e.g., the agricultural courses
started in 1975 at the Agricultural Teacher Training College in Trinidad and
industrial training courses organized for the leather and clothing industries
in Montevideo), UTU does not generally maintain a close relationship with
employers. Courses tend to be long and are not structured to teach skills
according to specific needs. Finally, no strategy exists for the creation of
an infrastructure of supervisors/instructors in enterprises, and there has
been no effort at supervisor training. Although UTU has provided some advice
and prepared manuals for enterprises interested in establishing training
schemes, it lacks the financial and technical capability to satisfy the
growing demand for such services.
26.       The prevailing levels of unemployment and underemployment in
Uruguay are the result of nearly two decades of economic stagnation: the
agricultural sector continued to release workers to the cities at the same
time that industry was unable to provide enough job opportunities. This
resulted in: (a) the heavy net emigration during 1963/75 (see paragraph
10); and (b) excessive employment by the public sector of unskilled and
semi-skilled personnel (now equivalent to about 23% of the total labor
force). Thus UTU's emphasis on preparing young technicians for job entry
was frustrated by the depressed labor market which reflected the overall
conditions in the economy.



27.       Despite the seemingly ample supply of labor in Uruguay, some indus-
tries, particularly the dynamic exporting ones, are experiencing a shortage of
industry-specific skills. A sample survey of 24 exporting firms, organized
in March 1977 by the National Planning Secretariat (SEPLACODI) and the Chamber
of Industries with assistance from a Bank mission, showed that 96% of the
firms had difficulty in finding adequately trained workers and were willing to
pay higher wages in order to attract such workers. The coexistence of high
unemployment with supply shortages of certain skills is partly the result of a
lack of feedback from the labor market to the training system, as well as the
heavy emigration of skilled workers and technicians. Some 95% of the firms
interviewed in the survey expressed a willingness to participate in training
programs in schools or factories, especially if private enterprise could play
an active role in managing the scheme.
28.       To provide the training services which are essential for the
successful implementation of its new economic program, in early 1977, the
Government established a working group of public and private representatives
to prepare a plan for the development of a national vocational training
system. The working group, with technical assistance financed under Loan
No 1176-UR, diagnosed Uruguay's most pressing training requirements and
proposed the creation of an organization to provide that training.
29.       A decree establishing a Vocational Training Council (COCAP) was
enacted on May 29, 1978. COCAP has a Board of Directors, industrial advisory
groups, and a full-time executing unit. The Board of Directors includes one
representative each of the Ministers of Labor, Industry and Energy, Agricul-
ture and Fishing, and of SEPLACODI, and two representatives each of the Ministry
of Education (the Directors of CONAE and UTU), the Chamber of Industries and
private agricultural institutions. COCAP is independent of CONAE and UTU,
although linked to the Ministry of Education; coordination is assured with
other vocational training institutions through the Ministry's representatives
on COCAP's Board. The Board is empowered to determine national training
policies, approve training plans, supervise the execution of training activi-
ties, studies, and related services, and administer financial resources for
training. The Board would be assisted in this effort by part-time industrial
advisory groups for each industry in which training is to be offered (e.g.,
textiles, clothing, leather, refrigeration). These groups would comprise
representatives of the training system and the industrial or agricultural
sector, in equal numbers. Necessary legislation granting COCAP legal per-
sonality and permanent financing, including the regulations to implement this
legislation, must still be enacted. COCAP's permanent financing is expected
to be assured by earmarking a specific budgetary allocation each fiscal year.
Technological Development
30.       The Government's export-oriented industrialization strategy entails
the promotion of non-traditional industries, which must now compete interna-
tionally for foreign markets. This involves changes in the type and quantity
of goods produced, as well as the product designs, production techniques and
marketing channels. The above strategy requires the development of an
adequate indigenous capability in the areas of technological research, dis-
semination of information, and technical assistance to entrepreneurs.



- 10 -
31.       Uruguay needs to develop the technological research capability to
analyze and select from among existing technological alternatives, and to make
appropriate adaptations to local conditions. There also is the need to create
new technologies related to indigenous plants, animals and minerals, and to
particular problems caused by the Uruguayan scale of production, for which
none of the existing technological alternatives offer an adequate solution.
Domestic firms require technical assistance and information services to help
them analyze production problems and identify possible technological solutions
and potential markets. This is particularly important in the Uruguay context:
because of the small size of the average industrial enterprise, most companies
cannot afford to maintain their own research facilities and personnel.
32.       At present, Uruguay has only limited domestic capability in product
and process development. Although some lines of technical and managerial
assistance have been developed, these serve mainly the already established
large and medium-sized industries and certain agricultural sub-sectors.
There are no public or private organizations performing preinvestment studies,
technological research and technical assistance, on the scale needed, for the
non-traditional industrial sectors.
33.       Uruguay's scientific and technological infrastructure consists of
a loose network of institutions scattered among the Ministries of Industry,
Agriculture and Education, and two laboratories within public enterprises
and a few in the private sector. Private entrepreneurs and administrators
of public enterprises do not maintain close links with academic research/
scientific institutions, and the National Council of Scientific and Techno-
logical Research has neither the power nor the financial resources to foster
improved communications between the two groups. The National Center of
Industrial Technology and Productivity is oriented mainly towards management
training and industrial sector studies. With the exception of the Techno-
logical Laboratory of Uruguay (LATU), the other institutions are all either
task- or enterprise-specialized, or they deal mainly with the agricultural
sector. Only LATU is a multi-purpose, industry-oriented public institute,
providing mainly quality control services but also starting to perform some
technological research, technical assistance and market information services
for the industrial sector.
34.       LATU was established in 1965, primarily to perform quality control
services for exports benefitting from drawback incentives and technical
analyses of licenses for temporary imports which are to be incorporated into
exports. It is efficient in performing those services, and it is in the
process of developing limited technological research and technical assistance
activities for industries, mainly in the agro-industrial field, leather and
garments. LATU is a semi-autonomous institution of the Ministry of Industry.
It has established close relationships with the private sector through the
Chamber of Industries, which is represented in its Board. The Chamber of
Industries' representative acts as Vice President of LATU. The President
is appointed by the Minister of Industry, who also approves LATU's yearly
budget and statement of accounts. LATU's income is derived almost exclu-
sively from taxes on: (a) exports submitted to quality control; (b) temporary



- 11 -
imports; and (c) industrial equipment introduced under tax-exempt promotional
measures. LATU is also permitted to charge for services other than those
obtained from these taxes. It may, for example, price its technical assistance
services when they are not directly related to the solving of problems that
prevent the export of a given lot of products. This pricing criterion is not
established by law, but has simply evolved in practice by agreement with the
industrialists represented on LATU's Board. Income from such services is
still very limited, representing in 1976 only 0.7% of total income.
IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on a Vocational Training
and Technological Development Project" (No. 1928b-UR, dated May 25, 1978) is
being distributed separately. A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the
front of this report. Attached as Annex III is a Supplementary Project Data
Sheet. Also attached is a project map (IBRD 13426). The proposed project was
identified by an economic mission that visited Uruguay in June 1976. The
proposed project was subsequently prepared by the Government, with technical
assistance provided under Loan No. 1176-UR, and appraised in October 1977.
Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C. in May 1978.
The Uruguayan delegation was led by Ing. Juan Jose Anichini, Assessor to the
Central Bank of Uruguay.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The project aims at enhancing the competitiveness of Uruguayan ex-
ports by increasing labor productivity, improving product quality and promoting
the use of production technologies well suited to the country's requirements.
The proposed project would support (i) the establishment of a national voca-
tional training system to provide the manpower training which is essential
for the implementation of its economic development strategy, including the
provision of technical assistance to help set up a facility to finance pre-
investment activities; and (ii) develop a domestic capability, consistent with
the country's human and natural resource endowments, in areas of technological
research, dissemination of information and technical assistance to entrepre-
neurs to expand quality standards for Uruguayan exports and promote applied
industrial research for improving quality of products. The complementary aims
set forth in (i) and (ii) constitute the basis for the proposed project's
vocational training and technological development components, respectively.
37.       Vocational Training.  The proposed project would assist the Gov-
ernment in establishing a national vocational training system to supply
requirements for new workers (some 1,330 workers annually) and to raise
productivity levels in priority sectors by upgrading the skills of those
presently employed (some 14,860 workers annually). Initially, the system
would focus on the key export and export-supporting industries. Thereafter,
it would expand gradually to cover all sectors of the economy. Specifically,
the project would finance the physical facilities and technical assistance
necessary for the new Vocational Training Council (COCAP - see paragraph 29)
to begin operations. This component would include the following items:



- 12 -
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new vocational
training center in Montevideo. The center would have 320
trainee places, to provide training opportunities for about
2,000 workers annually. All courses would be based on occu-
pational analysis and would vary in duration from 24 to 800
hours. Flexibility would be ensured through the use of
short, self-contained training modules which would permit
trainees to enter the system at the point appropriate to
their qualifications and return for further training at later
stages in their careers. To encourage workers and employers
to take advantage of training programs, a system of certifi-
cation would be introduced for common skilled occupations:
national standards would be established, workers tested and
certificates awarded. Assurances have been obtained that an
acceptable site for the Vocational Training Center would be
acquired before the start of the building design (Section
3.15(b) of draft Loan Agreement); the architectural plans
for this building would be acceptable to the Bank (Section
3.14(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
(b) Six mobile training units. The units would offer trainiDg to
about 6,400 persons annually in agricultural occupations. The
program would be administered from UTU's Agricultural Teacher
Training College in Trinidad. The Government has provided
assurances that COCAP would appoint a rural training coordi-
nator (based in Trinidad) and six regional deputy coordinators
by January 1, 1979 (Section 3.09 (b)(i)(B) of draft Loan
Agreement). Courses of one to three weeks' duration would be
offered in different occupations such as tractor repairing,
and cattle insemination. A tentative training plan was pre-
pared during appraisal; specific regional training needs and the
itineraries of the mobile units would be determined by the six
regional deputy coordinators in consultation with the agronomists
of various Government agricultural development programs and the
farming enterprises.
(c) In-plant training programs. The project would provide a com-
prehensive range of services to enterprises for on-the-job
training programs. In particular, 9.75 man-years of specialist
services and 2.5 man-years of fellowships would be provided
to establish these programs. About 1,300 training officers,
supervisors and foremen would be trained annually in short
courses to prepare them for participation in subsequent routine
on-the-job training of about 6,500 workers annually. The
training needs of the public ports, railways, electric power,
petroleum and fishing agencies, as well as several large
private manufacturing enterprises, would be met through in-plant
training. The bulk of this assistance would be devoted to under-
taking in-plant training programs for export-oriented industries.



- 13 -
(d) Technical assistance for institutional development and for a
preinvestment facility. The technical assistance (11 man-years
of specialist services and 7 man-years of fellowships) would
provide support in: (a) planning and organization of vocational
training and supervisor training programs; (b) textiles and
leather training; (c) agricultural training; and (d) evaluation,
analysis of training costs, and certification and trade testing.
Assistance to establish a preinvestment facility for the prepara-
tion of investment projects would also be provided.
(e) Surveys. The proposed project would also include US$310,000 to
finance training needs surveys to identify priority sectors/
industries which would require the manpower training services
of COCAP in the future. The surveys would be conducted jointly
by COCAP and the Ministry of Labor. The Government has provided
assurances that the plans for each survey (including costs, terms
of reference, and implementation program) would be submitted to
the Bank for approval prior to the initiation of the survey
(Section 3.07 of draft Loan Agreement).
38.       The terms of reference and criteria for selection of specialists
have been agreed upon during negotiations, and the Government has provided
assurances that they would be selected on the basis of qualifications and
employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Fellowship
recipients would be selected on the basis of training programs acceptable
to the Bank; and suitable counterparts would be appointed to work with the
specialists (Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Technological Development.  In order to support the Government's
export-oriented industrial development strategy, the project would assist the
Technological Laboratory of Uruguay (LATU, paragraph 34) to improve its
ongoing quality control and routine analytic testing, as well as to develop
new capabilities to evaluate technological alternatives, perform applied
research to adapt existing technologies to local conditions, organize market
information services and provided technical assistance to local enterprises.
The project would focus on the needs of the principal exporting sub-sectors
with a view to improving their competitiveness in world markets through the
following items:
(a) Laboratories. (i) This item would consist of the construction
and furnishing and equipping of one general chemical and micro-
biological laboratory, four sector specific laboratories, five
pilot plants, a materials testing laboratory, and ancillary facil-
ities. All project facilities would be located at LATU's new site
in the suburbs of Montevideo. These buildings would be constructed
on the basis of architectural plans acceptable to the Bank (Section
3.14(b) of draft Loan Agreement). The aim would be to ensure that
the laboratory equipment to be located in these buildings is ade-
quately accommodated (Section 3.14(c) of draft Loan Agreement) and
that the mechanical and electrical equipment for these buildings to
be financed under the proposed loan meets acceptable standards of



- 14 -
efficiency and economy. (ii) The project would also include the
furnishing and equipping of a metrological laboratory and facilities
for information, industrial design and packaging services. Assur-
ances have been obtained that these facilities, as well as LATU's
administration, would remain at LATU's downtown Montevideo site
during the project implementation period (Schedule 5, B,(b),(7) of
draft Loan Agreement).
(b) Technical Assistance. This item would be related to the laboratories
referred to above, and would include 12 man-years of specialist
services and 24.5 man-years of fellowships. An intensive training
program is planned, under which LATU's professionals would be sent
abroad to work/study in industry-oriented technological institutes
and foreign specialists would be brought to Uruguay. Reliance
on purely academic training has been avoided to the extent possible,
and the fields of expertise for which foreign specialists would be
recruited have been selected on the basis of specific problem areas.
The same assurances for specialists and fellowships employed for the
vocational training component (paragraph 38) would apply in this
case.
40.       Improved metrological and materials testing equipment would help
strengthen Uruguay's technological capabilities. The metrological facili-
ties would serve many different industrial sub-sectors in standardizing
and controlling their measurement apparatus. The materials testing labora-
tory has been included in the project in order to permit LATU to extend
quality control and technical assistance to the construction sector, which
plays an important economic role in Uruguay (construction represents 4.8%
of GDP and 4.5% of employment). It is estimated that about 15% of construc-
tion output, measured in terms of costs, would require the services of the
materials testing laboratory. Provided that adequate regulations regarding
quality control of construction are issued, the materials testing laboratory
is expected to substantially increase LATU's income from paid services (at
present the construction industry is not paying any taxes earmarked for LATU).
The amount allocated for buildings and equipment for this laboratory would
only be disbursed after a thorough assessment of demand and the preparation of
a suitable equipment list (Schedule 1, paragraph (4) of draft Loan Agreement).
Furthermore, if, at that time, the allocation for materials testing equipment
in the proposed loan appears to be too large, the Bank would have the right to
cancel the excess amounts after having assessed the requirements of other
parts of the project (Schedule 1, paragraph 7 of draft Loan Agreement). The
Government has undertaken to ensure that this component would not duplicate
other facilities, and to foster cooperation between LATU and other institutions
in the country in sharing materials testing equipment (Section 3.17 of draft
Loan Agreement).
41.       The four sub-sectors, comprising 11 industries, for which new or
additional facilities would be provided under the project are: food indus-
tries (including meat packing), textiles, leather and leather products,
and process industries. The main criteria for selecting these industries



- 15 -
include: (i) current importance in total exports and prospects for future
expansion; (ii) the expected demand for services by Uruguayan industrialists;
and (iii) the existence of readily available scientific and technological
knowledge about the sub-sector. The industries selected accounted for 75% of
total exports in 1976 and have been responsible for the major share of export
growth in recent years. Moreover, these industries generate about 70% of the
value-added of the manufacturing sector and employ about 60% of the industrial
labor force. Concerning (i), particular care was paid to examining the impact
of the planned liberalization of the import duty structure and tax rebate
system on the viability of the industries to be served by the project. With
regard to (ii), LATU conducted a survey of 242 Uruguayan enterprises to
determine their interests and willingness to pay for technological research
and technical assistance services. The inclusion of these 11 exporting
industries constitutes a reasonable program of activities for LATU's expansion
in the medium-term on a gradual basis, and consistent with the institution's
capabilities.
42.       All research sub-projects, whether internally or externally generated,
would be submitted to a thorough screening process within LATU. The feasibility
of each sub-project would be assessed in terms of its utility, measured by:
(i) its relevance to economic and social objectives, particularly to maintain-
ing or improving the international competitiveness of Uruguayan industry;
(ii) the market value and other benefits (e.g., employment generation, savings
to the client) of a successful effort compared to the costs of having under-
taken the research; and (iii) the transferability of the innovation/adaptation
to the productive system (e.g., the user's capacity to implement the results
of the technological research). The feasibility of each sub-project would
also be assessed in terms of the efficiency with which the project may be
executed, measured by: (i) the qualifications of LATU's personnel to work on
the particular research problem; (ii) the appropriateness of LATU's installa-
tions for the proposed research and their availability at the time; (iii) the
existence of freely available scientific and technological knowledge on the
research problem; and (iv) the availability of external experts to work with
LATU on the project. Assurances have been obtained that LATU would follow
these criteria to select research sub-projects (Section 3.08 of draft Loan
Agreement). The appraisal of a technological research sub-project would be a
continuous process, starting before the product is even designed. The initial
decision would be based on a tentative evaluation of the potential financial
and economic benefits of the project, the risks of failure or partial success
of the research and the estimated costs. LATU's Board would be assisted in
screening the sub-projects by a Management Assistance Committee (including
heads of divisions and consultants). As the research takes place, progress
would be periodically checked at various administrative levels of LATU against
the original timetable and cost estimates in order to assess the desirability
of carrying on with the undertaking.
Project Organization and Management
43.       Vocational Training.  COCAP would require about 35 full-time profes-
sionals, 24 agricultural instructors and 22 industrial instructors, as well as
supporting staff, by full operation in 1982. As part of the program to make



- 16 -
COCAP fully operational, the Government has provided assurances that, by
January 1, 1979, responsibility for the adult vocational training programs
presently offered by UTU would be transferred to COCAP, and in particular,
that UTU would transfer to COCAP responsibility for its small in-plant train-
ing services as well as 20 instructors and course programmers (Section 3.10
of draft Loan Agreement). In addition, by January 1, 1980, the Ministry of
Labor would assume responsibility for the placement and follow-up of COCAP's
graduates, through its Employment Service (Section 3.11 of draft Loan Agree-
ment). All staff would receive training through working as counterparts to
the technical assistance specialists. Promulgation of all necessary regula-
tions to implement the legislation establishing COCAP would be a condition
of disbursement for the vocational training component of the proposed project
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of draft Loan Agreement).
44.       A full-time executing unit responsible to the Board would plan, pro-
gram, implement and evaluate the training services. This unit would include
the following full-time staff: a Director, an architect, a vocational training
specialist, an accountant and a procurement officer. The qualifications,
functions and responsibilities of these officers would be acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.09 (b)(i) of draft Loan Agreement). Appointment of these
officers would be a condition of disbursement for this project component
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of draft Loan Agreement). Architectural designs and
construction supervision would be contracted with consultants acceptable to
the Bank (Section 3.05 of draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Technological Development.  In order to adapt itself to the number
and type of new activities which it would be undertaking as a result of the
proposed project, LATU would need to be reorganized internally and to
strengthen its staff (LATU's staff is expected to increase from 55 at present
to 170 by 1982). LATU would maintain its status as a semi-autonomous insti-
tution of the Ministry of Industry and its financing system based on earmarked
taxes. The main features of the new organization would be the establishment
of a Management Assistance Committee; industrial advisory groups; and three
new divisions for programming and budgeting, technical and market information,
and promotion and sales. The Government has provided assurances that it would
cause LATU to implement this new organization scheme by January 1, 1979
(Section 4.02 (b) of draft Loan Agreement). The Government is committed to
ensure that LATU's expansion should be gradual and well within its human and
financial capabilities, and that its future programs have a suitable emphasis
on export-oriented industries. Assurances have thus been obtained that LATU's
annual work programs, which would have to be satisfactory to the Bank, would
embody these aims (Section 3.16 of draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The Board of Directors would be assisted by the Management Assistance
Committee. The establishment of industrial advisory groups at the level of
the Board of Directors is designed to increase the participation of private
enterprise in the management of LATU. Each group would include industrialists
from the corresponding sub-sector branches of the Chamber of Industries and
other industrialists selected by the Board of Directors of LATU from amongst
those not belonging to any association. Advisory groups are foreseen for such
areas as meat products, leather and leather products, textiles, wood products,



- 17 -
and plastics. The new programming and budgeting division would play a leading
role in the financial management of LATU's expansion, and the technical and
market information and promotion and sales divisions would support efforts to
identify LATU's non-routine services. Assurances have been obtained that by
January 1, 1980, LATU would implement a revised accounting system (Section
4.09 of draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Quality control and technical assistance services would be performed
by the relevant technological divisions. Such services and information
provided to enterprises in order to help them in trouble-shooting production
problems normally requires only a few days of visits to the plants by LATU
staff and some minor laboratory work. Technological research activities on
the other hand, which tend to be of a more long term nature, would be assigned
to special task forces established under the management responsibility of one
senior professional of LATU, which would include other professionals and
technicians of LATU, as well as local and foreign specialists on contract.
Arrangements may also be made with other local and foreign laboratories and
institutions to use their staff and facilities as needed.
48.       LATU would be responsible for administering the technological
development component of the proposed project. The Director of LATU would
be responsible for planning, organizing, controlling and monitoring project
execution. The Director would be assisted by a full-time project implemen-
tation team comprising a general coordinator, an architect, an engineer, an
accountant, a procurement officer, and supporting staff. These officers would
have qualifications, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and
would be appointed by October 31, 1978 (Section 3.09 (b)(ii) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Other departments of LATU would also assist in project implemen-
tation from time to time, as necessary. Short-term consultants, acceptable to
the Bank, would assist in procurement and installation of pilot plants and
equipment, and, if needed, in the revision of LATU's accounting system. LATU
has contracted the services of a firm of architects, which is acceptable to
the Bank, for the general design of the new laboratories and pilot plants, and
for construction supervision. Given the specialized nature of LATU's installa-
tions, the firm itself would need to retain the services of consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, for detailed engineering work.
49.       Coordination Between the Two Project Components.  The establishment
of complicated coordination mechanisms has been avoided; however there would
be a need to assure broad consistency of approaches between the work programs
carried out under both parts of the project. This should avoid, for instance,
that training of workers is undertaken for one technology while new methods of
production have been outlined for the same industry through the technological
development component. Thus, at the policy level, in the interest of promoting
maximum coordination and flow of information between the vocational training
and technological development components of the proposed project, the National
Planning Secretariat (SEPLACODI) would designate staff responsible for monitor-
ing the respective components. The Government has provided assurances that
SEPLACODI would appoint at least one such liaison officer for each component
by January 1, 1979 (Section 3.04 of draft Loan Agreement). The Directors of



- 18 -
COCAP's full-time executing unit and the Director of LATU would be responsible
for liaison with the SEPLACODI staff. At the working level, proper communica-
tion for elaboration of detailed plans of actions in the training and tech-
nological development fields is expected to be assured through the representa-
tives of the relevant industries in the advisory groups. The signing of
contracts, acceptable to the Bank, between the Government and LATU, and
between the Government and COCAP would be conditions of disbursement for each
of the two respective project components (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of draft
Loan Agreement).
50.       To assure proper project execution and suitable standards of
efficiency, the Government has agreed to establish and maintain a salary
structure for COCAP and LATU conducive to attracting and retaining qualified
personnel for both institutions (Section 3.09 (a) of draft Loan Agreement).
Throughout the project implementation period, COCAP and LATU would maintain
separate project accounts, which would be audited yearly by auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$16.5 million, including
physical and price contingencies, of which the foreign exchange costs would
represent US$10.9 million. (Imported equipment and furniture would be exempt
from custom duties, and are costed accordingly.) In terms of base costs, the
vocational training component represents US$3.7 million, while the tech-
nological development project, US$8.9 million. Physical contingencies (US$1.3
million in total) amount to 10% for all project components. Price contin-
gencies (US$2.5 million in total) represent an average of 18% of the base cost
(US$12.6 million) plus physical contingencies. Specialist services and
fellowships, representing US$3.0 million of total project costs, are estimated
at an average of US$56,000 and US$16,500 per man-year, respectively.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$9.7 million would finance the bulk of
foreign exchange costs. LATU could contribute US$2.2 million from its own
resources to the project; and US$2.5 million from borrowing from the Mortgage
Bank of Uruguay (for the construction of the laboratories and pilot plants).
The terms and conditions of the mortgage loan are expected to be 11% (indexed)
interest per annum, and 10 years amortization with two years of grace. The
signing by LATU of such loan, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of disbursement for this component (Schedule 1, paragraph
4 of draft Loan Agreement). The portion of the Bank loan to be on-lent to
LATU (US$6.8 million) would bear the same terms as the Bank loan to the
Government (Schedule 5, B,(b),(2) of draft Loan Agreement) and would be
defined in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the Bank.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
53.       Assurances have been obtained that, for both project components,
all equipment, furniture and buildings financed under the proposed project
would be adequately maintained and repaired, and to that effect COCAP and LATU
would prepare maintenance handbooks and include in their annual budget a sum
for maintenance equivalent to at least 1% of the replacement cost of the build-
ings during the first four years of operation and 1.5% thereafter, and 5% of
the cost of equipment and furniture (Section 4.03 of draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Recurrent Costs and Budgetary Impact
54.       The recurrent costs generated by the vocational training component
would reach US$0.9 million (at 1977 prices) annually by 1982, when full enroll-
ment capacity is reached. Costs per trainee hour of instruction are estimated
at US$0.91, which is reasonable compared with the costs of similar training
schemes in other Latin American countries. The pending legislation required
for COCAP would entitle COCAP to receive specific and direct budgetary alloca-
tions to finance the projected recurrent costs (Sections 3.01(b) and 4.04 of
draft Loan Agreement).
55.       As a result of the proposed project, LATU's recurrent expenditures
would quintuple during 1977-83, and thereafter would grow at an annual rate
of about 1% in constant prices. LATU's revenues would grow at a slower pace,
only doubling by 1983. The gap between expenditures and revenues would be met
by drawing on LATU's accumulated reserves, which totalled about US$2.1 million
at the end of 1976. From 1984 onwards, revenues would match costs. Earmarked
taxes linked to Uruguay's export performance presently generate more than 95%
of LATU's revenues, with the quality control tax on non-traditional exports
accounting for about two-thirds of the total. Revenues from contract techno-
logical research and sales by LATU of other services paid by industry, which
are presently very low (they accounted for only about 0.7% of total revenues
in 1976), would increase by at least 50% per year, from 1980 until 1985.
Assurances to that effect have been obtained from the Government (Schedule 5,
B,(b),(7) of draft Loan Agreement). LATU intends that its task force services
would be priced so as to recover the total costs incurred. Implementation and
monitoring of this decision would be heavily dependent upon LATU's adopting an
improved accounting system in order to clearly determine the cost breakdown of
LATU's various activities. The revenue projections from earmarked taxes are
based on forecasts of Uruguay's future export performance; expenditure projec-
tions take into account the expected increase in LATU's staff and assume about
a 40% real increase in average salaries to enable LATU to attract and retain
highly-competent staff.
56.       The Government has provided assurances that it would take, or would
cause COCAP and LATU to take, all necessary steps to make funds available in
the event of any shortfall in revenues needed to cover COCAP's and LATU's
operational expenses (e.g. due to unexpectedly poor export performance for a
short period) (Section 4.04 of draft Loan Agreement). We have agreed with the
Government on the estimated expenditures required for the operations of COCAP
and LATU during the execution of the project (Schedule 5, A of draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement
57.       Contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. However, furniture and equipment contracts, with the excep-
tion of the mechanical and electrical equipment for the civil works for the
new LATU buildings, of less than US$50,000 would be procured on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, and that
off-the-shelf items entailing contracts of US$10,000 or less, could be



- 20 -
purchased by prudent shopping through normal commercial channels. The latter
would be limited to aggregates of US$120,000 for the vocational training
component and US$375,000 for the technological development component. In the
case of procurement under international competitive bidding procedures,
domestic manufacturers tendering under international procedures would receive
a margin of preference of 15% of the CIF cost or the applicable custom duty,
whichever is lower.
58.       Civil works contracts for the vocational training component would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank; the scale of these civil works is not likely to attract foreign
contractors, other than from neighboring countries, although they would not be
precluded from bidding. As for the new LATU buildings, the Bank's procurement
guidelines would only apply to the items financed with the proposed loan:
a specific list of mechanical and electrical equipment (shown in Schedule
1, paragraph 1, Category (2)(b) of draft Loan Agreement) would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made
for: (a) vocational training component: (i) 20% of total expenditures for
construction (including site and civil works, and professional services);
and (ii) 100% of total expenditures for studies; and (b) both components:
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of local expenditures for furniture
and equipment; and (ii) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
Benefits
60.       Vocational Training.  The proposed vocational training component
would assist the Government in establishing a national system, through COCAP,
to provide manpower training services to the key export and export-supporting
sectors. The vast majority (92%) of the 16,200 beneficiaries would be already
employed adults participating in skill upgrading courses to enhance their
productivity, reflecting the fact that Uruguay already has a rather extensive
formal technical education system which prepares young people for job entry.
Through the use of self contained trairing modules, the project would provide
training annually to 7,800 supervisors and workers under in-plant schemes,
6,400 rural workers through mobile training units, and only 2,000 workers in
conventional off-the-job programs in a fixed vocational center.  Since this
involves maximum use of existing facilities, investment requirements have been
kept to a minimum. This approach would help establish a flexible system capa-
ble of responding easily to new and changing training needs. Besides physical
facilities and in-plant training, the project would provide extensive technical
assistance to support the general institutional development of COCAP and to
help the Government prepare a preinvestment studies' fund. Finally, surveys
financed under the project would assist in identifying additional training
needs in industries to be served in future stages of development of COCAP.
61.       Technological Development.  The proposed technological development
component would assist LATU to improve its ongoing quality control and routine
analytic testing, expand its technical and market information services, and



- 21 -
develop new capabilities in technological research and technical assistance
to entrepreneurs. Four industrial sub-sectors (food, leather, textiles and
process industries) would be assisted, through the establishment of labora-
tories and pilot plants; all installations would be designed so as to ensure
maximum flexibility in their use over time.
62.       Quantitative assessments of the benefits of investments in technolo-
gical research are difficult because the detailed work program of the research
institution cannot be clearly determined in advance. Rather, it will develop
over time in response to the requirements of the private sector. Moreover,
the ultimate returns to the technological research may depend also on additional
investment and marketing efforts by the industrial firms. The application of
sub-project selection criteria and the monitoring process of the subsequent
progress of the sub-projects (paragraph 42) would, however, ensure that the
research undertakings ultimately yield substantial rates of return.
Risks
63.       The major uncertainties for both components of the project are:
(a) the overall export prospects for Uruguay's non-traditional products;
(b) the response of the private sector to the new services; and (c) the
quality of the managerial and technical staff of COCAP and LATU. The overall
prospects for Uruguay's non-traditional exports will essentially depend on the
Government's industrial policy and on the economic conditions and trade
policies in the developed countries which constitute Uruguay's major export
markets. Industrial policy is an area over which neither COCAP nor LATU has
much real control, but the performance of the Government since 1974 in revers-
ing Uruguay's historic inward-looking import-substitution schemes in favor of
an export-led development strategy consistent with the country's basic resource
endowment bodes well for the future. The broader question of the level of
demand in the major importing markets is of course more difficult to assess.
The available evidence suggests that growth prospects in the developed countries
is likely to be somewhat higher than during 1971-76 when Uruguay experienced
the sharp take-off in non-traditional exports. Nevertheless, the international
export prospects can be considered as only cautiously optimistic provided that
continued progress is made in the relaxation of trade barriers in the developed
country markets. These considerations have been taken into account in the
export projections by assuming a lower rate of growth than recently experienced.
With regard to private sector response, the participation of industrialists in
the Boards and industrial advisory groups of both COCAP and LATU should help
to foster a close relationship. Finally, as regards quality of management and
staff, LATU's performance to date has been good and its present personnel are
well qualified for the tasks they are required to undertake; special technical
assistance to be provided under the project is expected to help strengthen
COCAP's management. Provision would be made under the proposed project to
ensure that salaries are maintained at levels adequate to attract and retain
qualified staff to both agencies, and extensive technical assistance programs
for both components would provide further training and organizational support.
Evaluation
64.       Preliminary evaluation systems were developed during appraisal for
both components of the project. In the case of COCAP, the system focuses



- 22 -
on production and wage increases attributable to its vocational training pro-
grams. For technological development, the clients contracted by LATU and
requests for services received, production problems solved, income from con-
tracts, establishment of new firms and expansion of exports attributable to
LATU services, would be studied. Assurances have been obtained from the Gov-
ernment that both evaluation systems would be implemented no later than July 1,
1979 and that annual evaluation reports would be sent to the Bank for review
during 1980-82. Finally, within six months of the Closing Date of the loan
account, the Government would send to the Bank a full completion report pro-
viding an assessment of both components of the project, their results and the
experience gained during implementation (Section 3.13 of draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and the
Bank, and the Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft Loan
Agreement) would be the enactment of the necessary legislation granting COCAP
legal personality and control over independent resources. In addition, the
promulgation of all necessary regulations to implement the legislation estab-
lishing COCAP; the signing of a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between
COCAP and the Government; and the appointment of the members of COCAP's
executing unit would be conditions of disbursement for the vocational training
component. Similarly, the signing by LATU, of a loan from the Mortgage Bank
of Uruguay and the signing of a contract between the Government and LATU, both
satisfactory to the Bank, are conditions of disbursement for the technological
development component. A condition of disbursement for the materials testing
laboratories would be that the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that
LATU has assessed the demand for the services to be provided by these facilities
and, on the basis of this assessment, has established a list of equipment to be
included in this laboratory (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of draft Loan Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 31, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 --------
---------------                          URUGUAY                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      177.5                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     154.4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           CHILE          SINGAPORE      NEW ZEALAND**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    660.0      940.0    1390.0               920.0      1240.0      2930.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            2.5        2.7        2.8                9.4         2.1         2.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       14.0       15.        16.0               12.0      3571.0        10.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        16.0      17.u        18.0               58.0    10373.0         20.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         23.0       22.1       20.4               32.9        29.5        24.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           9.5                                     11.0         6.4         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        47.4      4z.        4O.1                79.0        21.0        16.7
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       67.2       69.3      69.8                60.6        68.0        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4        i.4        1.4                2.2         2.2         1.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.5        0.7*      0.4*                2.4         2.3         1.7/a
URBAN                                 2.8        1.2        1.0                3.5         4.7         2.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          72.6       78.1       80.6               76.0        86.3        fl0.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       28.0/a    28.3       28.0                39.0        39.0        32.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       64.0 /-   63.5       63.5                56.3        58.0        59.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     8.0 /      8.2        8.5                4.7         3.0         8.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.6/a      0.6        0.6                0.8         0.7         0.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0o/      1.0        0.9/a              1.6         1.2         1.0 /b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ,.         ,.              403.5       175.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..                 ..        41.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         iooo.o/a  1020.0    1200.0               2900.0       730.0      1100.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         18. o/     17.0      13 2                21.0         3.0        13.0/c
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           9.0        7 7.7/a   10.8/b              4.1/a       7.0/a       o. /I
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      19.o/b                        31.0            .       16.5/e
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ,.      47.5/F                        55.8          ,         44.6/e
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS                        4.44.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       14.2/        . *               4.8          . .        3.9/i
14. 2/       ..13.0                         ..        1 4.6 /e
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_________________-__________--
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
% OWNED BY SMALLEST t0% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              970.0/b   880.o       840.0/C           2210.0/b   1520.0/.b    870.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        7680.0 /   3340.0    3530.o0             5830.0 /     460.0       180.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           180.0 /    150.0         ,               270.0       270.0       100.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALURIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        115.0      114.0     116.0               101.0       103.0/0    126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             110.0       96.0      98.1                71.0        633.0/     107.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         69.0       64.0      62.6                32.0        34.0/i      77.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              1.8       1.3        1.1                3.9         0.5          1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      111.0      106.0       95.0              107.0       106.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     37.0       57.0       62.0               39.0        46.0        77.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       12.0               12.0        12.0        14.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     23.0       21.0       19.0               33.0         8.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                90.0       91.0       94.0                90.0       75.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.5 /ad   .           .*                 1.3/C       2.9/d, e   07 /c
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                                                              d
PIPED WATER (X)                      41.0 /ale                                 0  4.0 /Cv d  20.0 /d'f  10,04
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 78.0 /a      ,                                       87.0 /d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                   29.0 /a      ..         ..                  ..
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        285.0      346.0      495.0                  *        143.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          39.0       45.0       55.0                18.0        71.0       316.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          490.0      762.0      847.0               806.0      1065.0      4867.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                7.1        7.0        5.3                5.0        11.4        34.0
…------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 24-
A31MI I
Pals 2
NOTES
U.nlesohereine noted, date for 1960 refer to many year between 1959 and 1961. for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, and far Meet Rse-t Eatiests between
-Doe to snigration during 1960-70 and 1970-75, population growth rate is lower than the rate of natoralinrae                          -
0    t11   elandh ,banbeen slece   e an nhjective country since like Uruguay it baa a population of about three emillion living mainly Ine urban areas
but it  reenurcbaei  primarily agricultural.  Bnch countries are heavily dapendent on erporte of peetoral preduets end therefore senksitive to
demad conditions in major merhota.  Econonir diversification  in both countries is limited by the small loral marker end the dearth of elneral
resource. 
URUGUAY         1960    /s  1963;    /b  1962;    Ic  1957, govrernment hospital establishments;    Id  Total, urban end rural;    Is  Inside only.
1970    la  Montaviden only;    lb  1967.
HOST RtCENiT ESTTMiTE:    I.  eatlo of population under 15 and 65 *00 over to total laborforce;    /b  Montevideo only, including
persons seeking job far ths first time;    /c  1972.
CHILE           1970    /a  Gran Santiago;    /b  Personnel in govrnenat  services only;    Is  Deta refer to households;    Id  Inside only.
SING0APORE      1970    Ia  Registered applicants for work;    /b  Regiatetrd  not all practicing in the country;    Is  1964-66;    /d  1966;
Is  Total, urban end rure1;    If  lnside only.
NEIW ZEALANDI   1970    /a  Due to isigration  population growth rate in higher than the rate of natural increaee;    /b  Rati, of population under
15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force;    In  1966;    Id  Regiotered unemployed;    /e  Income recipients;    If  1966-68;
/j Ineido only.
R4,   Mey 4, 1979
rDliNTlIS'ONS OP SOCIAL IMDICAIVM
Land Aros (thou he)                                                                           Population per sure ing parson - Popolation divded by enaber of pra-toi.ng
Total1  Total surfece cr00 coprieitg land area and inland waters,1 malend femal  grsduate nuss"treined- or "certified" nurses, and
Agric..   Most retot estimate of  grolraares used temporarily or Pamu-                          suxilisry personnel with trsining or enporiecce.
cootly for crup., pastures, narkec & kitchen gardena or to lie fallow.                      Ponul.tion esr hoseital bed - Population divided hy masher at bospitel hids
svsilabla is public sod private gesers a1nd specia1Used hospital sod
GliP per capiLs (01$) - CNP per capita estimates at current market pricess,                     rehabilitation centers; sec ludes nursing hones and estsbli.alneta for
osi-olated by san  conosreLoc othod as World Besab Atlaa (1974-76 bssis);                     custodial and preventiv  e re.
196U; 1970 and 1976 dota.                                                                   Par capita supply of clre   (1 of requirea,entel - Computed from enegy
sqaivaleet of net fend supplies available in country par capita per day;
Poocucinad vital satietloa                                                                      available supplies somprise domestic production, imporrta less  Seporie, and
Pop.Uotiot (old-year sillion) - As of July first:  if not availble, average                     changes in stank; net supplies  ntiude animal feed, seeds, quantities seed
of too end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                          is food process.ing and loses. is distrihuties; reqoirmemmnts were estimasted
by PAO based on physiologi-e  needs for norma  activity and health consid-
Poculotion denaity- per aunaro h   - Mid-yast population per square kilomettr                   sting  ewironneata1 tempertt,te, body ucights, age end see distributions of
(101 her rarsa) of coto  nne..                                                                papalati, end allwin  10% fa  waste at house hold level
Poculotion density -pr equate lot of acric. luod - Computed as shws far                       parc seita supl  of protin (eta per day) - Protei.neastant of pet capita
af,rlcu1tu_a  leand ocly.                                                                     net supply of fend per day; set supply of fond is defined en above; oquira-
Sests for all coontirie established by USDA Economic Rase.are Servi...
Vital statistcsc                                                                                provide for a minias   ellowanto of 60 greass of tetel pretei. per day, and
Crufo birth race p- thousand, av-vao- Acnn1 live birtha per thousand of                         20 gras of ashuel and pulse protein, of which 10 greas should he animal
old-year popolation; Len-year arithusetic avraeseding is 1960 and 1970,                       protein; theae standards are lever than those of 75 grasx of total protein
an,d five-your average ond iog ie 1975 for noet rece.nt estimate,                             end 23 greme of animal prtetin so an average for the world, prop.oed by FAO
Crude death rate nor thbou.and a-rse - Asna 1l deatha par thoussnd of nid-yoar                  in, the Third world Feod Survy.
popolation; ten-year -rith-otic averges ending in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                    Per ..eita pototin eupply iron animal and pulsa - Protein supply of faod
yoar average ending in 1971 for most recent estimate,                                         derived from sn-las sod pulses is gream per day.
1.tfant sortali ty raca  /thou) - Annual deatha of infasta onder one yese  of age             Death rate C/rhcu) aeon 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age erap 1-4
pro thousad live hirtho.                                                                      years, to children in this ega greop; suggestedass indosate, ef
LIFe rupectao   at hirtch (ycof - Av-caga uuoho  of years of~ life remining at                  malntrition.
birth; .usualy five-year a-org- ending in 1960, 1970  ned 1975 far develop-
Ieg  -antrins.                                                                              Eduration
Crass re    ,hdution rto c- Iv.rags onb r of IIoe daughters a amss will bear                  Adiusted enolmt ra!tio - primary soheol - Enrollsant of all ages as Pa--
in her nora Iveproduotive period if she sapetrience  Presnt age-epocific                      restage ef prine ryashool-age pepultati; includes childresn aged 6-11 years
fertility rates;  -sualyfio-ycer s-eragea ending is 1960, 1970 and 1971                       but adjusted far different lengths of primary educa.tion; far countries with
for devlapin  "nucorin.f                                                                      universalteducation, anrc1lent may -mtsd loot since .as pupIls are heals
Population growth rrete)   total - Compound annualI growth rates of nid-yesr                    or ahv  teofficil  shol .!age.
* population  mr 1910-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adluete!d anreleo   an      eondary school - Coaputed as sabve ; secondary
opuclation growth rte (TM      ran -eputed like growth rate of total                            eduainrequires at I.eset four years ef approved primary iintruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas say  ffact compara.bility of                 provides gene.ral, vo..atine1a er teac.her training isatrutian   for papils
data aton  conris                                                                             o   2 to 17 year  of age; corsodet   oresaegnre                         I lded,
Urbanpplto            fttl   Ratio af urban in total population; different                    Years oscolnprvddfitadaondave)  T-Ttal years of
doflo ictw   of orbso areas nay effect nopetahility of data among countries,                  schooling; at eodaylevel,  -octisn1 instrution -y ha partially or
remplately ..meladed.
As arucre (percet)   ChiLdren (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                   VncsI:"a  nsralleat ft ef secondary) - Vocational inat.itinm   include
Aedn 1reHtIre  (65 years andover) us percentags  o f aid-year population,                      technical, indusrial or ether pregraas which opersta isdepeedently at as
Ago deopd 'r-Y ratio  - Rati  of  Popultion under 11 and 61 and over to tOse                    departeante of secondary isatitations.
of aZuc 15 -Through h4.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate eda1ta (able cc read and wits) as per-
icE-otf daop-a.-yc ratio  - Ratio of population under 11 and 61 end over to                     ctega of total adult populetio  gagd t5 years and over.
the,    u    rsi  g  group af 1-64 years.
Fanily pc 1~ -eoi    0-,rsit  foemutive. thou) - Cu1.auaive smahr of acceptors                Hou ina
of bit  -control ac-ioes under suapio-  of eatina1 fenily pl.aning progrem                  Parseca Per reom (urban) - Average steber of Parsons per rem, in omeupiad
altos ; caption.                                                                              e -tveniaal dwellingS in urban areas; dwellings enlud.sono-peresset
Pomily ci  nig-use.rst (%of married wmn  -Per.esoagee af married women af                       structures end un .cplad parts.
thild-bcerin    g  (1_1-4yas  wh  uebirth-central devices to all maried                     OCcusied duellinse wlthoat piped waetr  0t         ..eapied es simldwellings
ouenI  oe  age group.                                                                   iorbe  an  rrl areas withant inside or onteids piped water facilities
as percentage ef all ascupid dwellings.
Mplovtec-                                                                                     Access ta electricity Ct Of all dwallimgel  - Convetinrsal duellinap with
Total labor    rcc (thous..od) - Ecoo,nically active pars...s, including armed                  electricity in living qoertrsr  ae percent of total duelLaga is erhan and
foro  and   em~ployed but e-cld-ng housewives, stdents, etc.; deinitions                     rural aroase.
in _ci_c.a co._nriaar.asooap-zshls.                                                        Rmora  duIlins. cmneoted ta el-triolty    C om- eputed ash- abaeei rural
Lahur farce in coicotrei)     gtluellbor frorc  (in C.anig, forestry,                           dwellings only.
hunting  ud fishiog) as percentge Of 'oral labor farce.
UnepIloyd (7, of lehor force;  - onmeploys.' ar  usually deined as person  abs                Consasetion
ar   ble ard uiliog to tabs a.job,ou t  f    a ja   as   gives day, raisaind act         Radio receivers feet then see) - All types of receivers far sadie brsadcssta
of a(oh,andseekng  ork  ar    speifii niima  period mat -ec.ding oneS to .enral public par thausand of population; seclude  umlisened receivers
wok;  naynt he comperable ha.. tsnano           dutoifentdilioaIn countries and in yea-  when registrati-onfa radio sets weeas  affect;
of unemployed and sorc  of deta, e.g., employmet office atatiatice, sempl                     data fo  r recast years may set be Comparable since est conntriaa ebeliehed
surveys, cutpulsory uscaployneot inaurasce,                                                   licensing.
Psegr cas.   er.  o  re    Passenger oars comprise satar rare se.atig
boon  dioc;bciucP.rc...ago  of  rivt  inton  (both is cash sod bind)                      les  hee eigt  ersss   eeldambulance, hesreas end silisary
rcieby rceac5%, richast 20%P, poorest 202., and poorest 401 of house-                   vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Eleco1ricir:Y (kwh/yr per cee   -'annual co-mti-t  f industrial,  omasercia1,
publc ad prvat  elctricit  in kilevtt hour  per capita, generally
Uletihotoc o  led owerehp -Ferc-trages of laod owned by wealthiest lOt                 based on produotion data, witbut ellsence fat lost.. Is grids but slIm-
and poorear 10% of lard  iwot.lg far imparts end eports of e1aCtricity.
He: Ptrint fkelvr par asp) - Per capita an-oa ceestption in kilograms
Health and Nutrrition                                                                           seimtd fine domestic pr-da-tien plus sat imparts of newesprist.
Pplation per physician   Fl Paultion divided by umeber of practicing
Physiti.n quslfiditm    edical eohaol st oeiver-ty level.



- 25- 
ANNEX I
EDCONOMIC DEV PM~ENT DATA                                                        Page 3 of 4
(onts in milions of 0J.S. dollars)
Actual.           fEs. -       Projected               1c968-   19173 -   19 77-               1973    19 77    1982
1973      1975      19 76  197 7 19 78     19 79    1982       :.973    1977      1982                   -
NATIONAL ACCOZINTS              At 1975 Prices & Exchange Rates                            A; ,rage Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of GilT
Gross Domestic Plroduct              33 50     3527      3727  3854  4008    4188    4784             1.4      3.6       4.4                 99.5   101.3    99.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)          17         0o        14   -52   -26       - 7       46                                                 0.5    -1I         -
Gross Domestic lnceat                =3         37M      3741  3802  3982    S1F1    4830              .       3.0       4.100 100 100
Import  micl. NOBS)                   594       642       703   750   826        898    1105          6.0     6.0        8.1                 17.6    19.7    22.9
j~p,ts        (impo,rt capacity)      463       497        703   678   742       813    1045         -5.3    10.0        9.0                1L3. 8    17.8    21.6
Resoarce Gap                          131      145          -     72     8        85     *33.                                                          19       12
Consumptios Expenditures             3101      3292      3249  3300  3446    3602    4065             3.1      1.5       4.3                 93.1    86.8    84.2
Investment   T  (cine. stocks)    397           380       493   574   618        664      825        4.8       9.6       7.5                 11.8    15.1    17.1
Domestic Savings                      266       2 32      492   502   534        579      7 65     -10.1    17.2         8.7                  7.     13.2    15.8
National Savings                      256       174       415   456   474        52 1     713       -9.2    15.5         9.3                  7 .6    12.0    14.7
MEBCHANJDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                  sPreto    oa
Tmports
Capital goods                        28        59        82   111   132        161      231        2.1    41.5        15.8                  9.7    15.2    16.6
Intermediate goods (mmlfuels)   134           27 2      286   375   430        507      764        8.0    29.5        15.3                46.4     51.4    55.1
Fuels and related materials          55       184       180   199   238        269      323       13.5    37.8        10.2                19.0    27.3    23.3
Feod                                 46        18        17    20    20         21       28       39.4   -19.0         7.0                15.9      2.7      2.0
other Consump sOn Goods              25        26        22    25    28         30    ....A       44.05     0.0        9.9                 8.7      3.4      2.9
Total Mes.Tsprssit)                 289       55         8      3      48      988    1386        12.7    26.0        13.610.                     100 100
Exports
Primary products (gxrl. fuels)    292         276       381   392   455        534      790       11.8       7. 6     15.0                89.0    64.5    60.5
Fuels and related materials                              --          -      -             -        -          -                              --  -
of which:  Petroleum               -         -         --                     -        --                   -         --                             
Manufactured goods                   36       109       165   216   249        287      514       23.7    43.2        18.9                -11.0    35. 5    39.5
Total Maccit Exports (fob)         18          83       36   608   704    892-1  -13-04           12.8    1f6.7       1.                 100 0   100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border  Tracue                                                      ..       ..
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1975  - .30
Export Price index                  103       100O      101   104   114        124      160       16.3      0.2        9.0
Imiport Price Index                  64       100        99   112   118        125      153        8.4    15.0         6.4
Terms of Trade Index                161       100       102     93    97        99      104        7.3   -12.8         2.2
Exports volumne Index                72       100 '  145   151   159           171      210       -4.7    20.2         6.9
VALUE ADDED BY IRITOR                Annual Data, at 1975    Froses and Exchange Bates                Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        426        430       445   439   456        475      536        2.8      0.8       4.2                 14.3    13.2    13.0
industry and Mdinng                915       102 7     1050  1128  1186    1259    1510            1.4      5.3       6.0                 30.7    33.9    36.6
Service                           1642       1694      17 2 61764  1816    1877    2077            1.1      1.8       3.3                 51.0    52.9    90,4
Total                             29983     3~1.41     32-21  M3331  3i4 58    36 11    412-5     _174    -2.8        4._3TOo                      O  100.0 15h    5T
PUBLIC FTINANCE                                                                                                                               As Percent of GDP
(Cen-tral Gcvernment)
Current Receipts                    489       4 37      512   597   619        641      741         ..      5.1       4.4                 14.6    15 5    1 9 5
Current Expenditures               492        534       538     -58 56 7       566      662         ..      3. 7      3.1                 14.7    14-7    03 8
Budgetary Savings                    -3       -97       - 2 6   29    52        75       79         ..       .          .                 -0.1      0 7      1.7
Other Plublic Sector                 23        74        54    56    58         61       72         ..    24.8        5.1                  0.7      1.4      1 5
Public Sector Investment            111       145       149   160   172        185      232         ..      9.6       7.8                  3.3      4.1      4.8
US5 4 million
CU7RRENT ExpEND0ITJ7RR DETAILS                        Actual               lost.    Proj.         DETAIL GE                                 At end 1975  P and ER
(As 7 Total Current Expend.)               197 3    1974        1975      1976    1980          PUB3LIC SECTOR                        Pirst Plan    7 of Total
Education           ..       ..         ..        ..       ..          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INVESTMENT PROGRAM  1    6  -976
Other Social Services                                                                           S    ocial Sectors                          118          21.0
Agriculture                                 .         .         .          .Agriculture                                                     233          21.8
Other Economic Services..                            ..          .        ..                    Industry and Mdining                        3108         10.1
Administration and Defense.                          ..                                         Power                                       314         209.
OIther                                      .         .         .          .       .            Transport and coossunicatioms               22420.9
Total Current Expenditurs ,o.                                     .        .                    Other                                        7            .
_______________________________________________________________________________   TotalTotaExpenditureses01070                   100.0
SELECTED INDICATOBS                                   1960-      1965-    1970-   1977-           PINANCING
(Calculated from  3-year averaged data)               196C/a    1970       1975      1982
Average ICOR                                         16.49        5778      73.32    3.-6            Public Srctor, Savings                   438          40.9
Import ElastiCity                                    -6.40       6.57    -0.08    1.8                External Borrowing (net)                 487         45.5
Marginal Domestic savinigs Bate                       0.14      -0.14      0.19    0.19              Domestic Borrowing (net)                 145         13.6
Marginial National Savinigs Rate                      0.04      -0.17       0.16    0.18             Total Financing                         Y7575       100.0
1.ABOR FORCE AlNT                                 Total Labor Force                                    Valuie Added Per Worker (1975rg    Prce 3   7xc   Bates)
oUTPUT PER WORKEF                   In Millions          7 of Total            1963 - 75          in U.S.Dollars       Percent ofrvne              193-7
1963        1975    1963        1975      Growth Rate           1963       1975         1963       1975.      Growth Rate
Agriculture                       0.18        0.21    17.9        19.8           1.3              2366       2047         0.79        .70           -1.2
Industry                          6.26        0.31    25.7        29.0           1.5              3519       3312         1.18       1.13          -0.5
Service                          0.56         0.55    56.4        51.2          -0.2              2932       3061          .98       1.04           0.4
Total                             1.0         1.0 7   _100.0     257            77                ff         TM7         t-s         TMu            -0.1
sot aplcbe             -nil or negligible                                                                                              My17
not available             lesso than half the
/8R,efers to 1961-66        smallest unit shown



- 26-
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNiAL ASSISTANCE AND DENT
(amounts in millions of U. S. dolE ar  at current prices)
Actual                             E.tir-ted                                   Projected
1973          1974           1975          1976           1977                          1976          1979           1982
SUKMARt' 9AI.ANCE ItF PAYMENTS
E.o-s., (intl. NFS)                          409.8         475.3          497.1          705.1          758.7                        875            1017           1599
Imports l'intl.  560)              366.5         586.7          642.0         696.2          840.7                         974           1122            1690
cesttrco   Molonno (X-Mi                     43.3        -111.4         -144.9            6.9        - 82.0                        - 99          - 105           -  91
- 21.6       - 30.7          - 45.6           57.2        - 62.8                        - 64          -  64          -  67
moer tacttr bernicent-  3.,5                             - 11.8         - 25.4        - 33.0         -  4.2                        - 33          -  3M           -  44
Ctsrront rransfers (nett                       18.9         21.1            12.9           7.7            7.0                          14             11              18
9alunco on Cetront Accounts                   37.1        -132.8         -203.0        - 73.6          -142.0                       -182          - 190           -L8T4
Priato Dirct-  Invstmenl                       -                             -             -                 5                          6              7             13
I.e  044 1  (-cM' '   an-s
111 iu -ersononlt                          03.2         203.9          277.1         218.2          194                           168            173            213
- 72.2        -125.3         -161.8        -146.1         -120                          -116          - 112          - 134
Ne: Di b.-so-ent-                              11.0        160.6            95.3          70.1           74                            52             61             79
asult I -s .ranIa ion o..                    41.7        - 86.0            34.9         115.5          224                          160             130            130
b          tane   n Nct tRusten            - 89.0          58.2            72.8       -112            -161                         - 36          -   8           -  38
1975          1974                  1977
DEBT AND DEBT rERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbura-d                614.5          687.5                 718.4
AN r .AND L:zAl ClInIL FMENTS
t7fitial Crants & Oron.-liko                  12.2            5.3            5.4                         Interost on rublit Debt                     46.1          57.2                  62.9
ROpmy.enna or - ublin Dlbs                181.9         148.1                  119.6
D lic Mhl  leoant                                                                                       Ttui Public Debt SIrnice (%)                45.9          29.1                   24.0
3RD                                         13.5            -            52.0            -            Onher Dubs Service (not)                      ..
Anc                                                         -              -             -            TOtul Debt Srri-e  (net)
tS,hoer Ysltlilnsorci                       32.7          21.8           56.5                          Int. an. % Prior Your D04D                   I9            9.3                   9.2
ddL>vernments                       30.4         105.2           20.1           3.8           Assort, As 7 Pri-o  Yost DOhD               35 2          24.1                   17.4
sp -liocs                                     .,9         16.4           27.3            3.0
Fieanet-i,  Intittteen                      75.1          51.0          245.9           63.0        IBD Debt Ost. & Disbursed                    70.6           79.2                  83.8
tonds                                       36.0         190.0          1116           35.0            "  as .4 Public Debt 0 h D                 11 5           11.7
iPublic  cons n.e   .    i.                                 -              -              -               as 7, Public Debt Ser-vic                4 9            5.8                   7.7
T-cal Dpblin M0LT      ans                   130.5         3S4.4           513           025'7
AccusE Debt Otstaodig on Dna. 31, 1976
tTtERNAL DEBT                                             Diarbed OnTo                     Porcent
WAld Bsank                                                  79.2                            11:.
7thcr  teiltil aneru 1                                      39.5                             5.6
Covermc ents                                               142.3                            20.7
erppliort                                                   25.6                             3.6
Fina.nis. 1 Ins:ituuicns                                   134.8                            19.6
Rends                                                      265.9                            38.6
Fvbli  Dlbos n.-i
-Iu I    bulit M&I0  Debt                                  687.5                           100.0
h,r 0447 Debts
shbrt-t-r- Debt (ditb. -1iv)
ns applituble                                                e snuff estinata                                                                                            M o  1979
.nt  -iluble                                                  -  til or aegliNible
..nt  -a ilable sep--ately                                   -. loon taboo buEf the
but included is Ctass                                           asIle.t unit ehbnt



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of April 30, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                               Amount
No.    Year         Borrower           Purpose              (less cancellations)
Bank    Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                 155.1        -
1166    1975       Rep. Oriental    Fifth Livestock
del Uruguay       Development             17.0      9.6
1176    1975       Rep. Oriental
del Uruguay      Industrial Devel-
opment and Export
Expansion              20.8       9.2
192.9     18.8
Total of which has been
repaid to Bank                            100.0
Total now outstanding                      92.9
Amount sold                     4.5
of which has been repaid        4.5       1.2
Total now held by Bank                     91.7
Total undisbursed                                    18.8
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of April 30, 1978)
(US$ million)
Amount
Year    Obligator       Type of Business              Loan   Equity  Total
1976      FUNSA      Tire and Rubber Products          3.8      -       3.8
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 3.8      -       3.8
Total undisbursed                                       3.5     -       3.5



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Loan No. 1166-UR  Fifth Livestock Development Project: US$17.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: February 13,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project disbursements are lagging one year behind appraisal fore-
casts.  As of end of April 1978, only US$7.4 million had been disbursed
compared to US$15.5 million projected. Major reasons for slow disbursements
are unfavorable relationship between prices of inputs and outputs in the
livestock industry, unstable agricultural policies causing investment disincen-
tives and indebtedness of ranchers with crop activities due to two consecutive
poor harvests. Present indications are that implementation delays will
further widen, given the prevailing investment climate and that project
funds will be adequate to meet all financing needs for investments of the
type included in the project for 1978, 1979 and part of 1980.
Loan No. 1176-UR  Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project;
US$20.8 million Loan of December 6, 1975: Effective
Date: April 8, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
In line with the technical difficulties which prevented the reuse
of Bank funds for working capital for pre-export financing (primarily because
alternative sources of financing, with better terms, had become available),
upon the Government's request, in late February 1977 the Bank agreed to (i)
cancel US$14.2 million unwithdrawn from this loan component and (ii) to trans-
fer US$10.3 million withdrawn from this Loan component to the Account of the
Industrial Export Promotion Fund in the Central Bank so as to be utilized for
investment financing. Until now, 15 investment sub-projects have been
approved, and under the technical assistance component, US$230,000 out of a
total allocation of US$500,000 has been committed. On the whole, project
implementation remains slow - about US$9.9 million are still undisbursed - and
based on the current sub-project pipeline, the project is expected to be
completed with a one year delay.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the -Liogress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems whica are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remaedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
stan3ing thaL they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
st:renrgths aad weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
URUGUAY
Vocational Training and Technological Development Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of key events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: About 15 months.
(b) Preparation by: Two working groups operating under SEPLACODI. Some
funding for preparatory studies provided under Loan
1176-UR (Industrial Development and Export Expansion
Project).
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:  June 1976.
(d) First Bank Mission: June 1976.
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: October 1977.
(f) Negotiations: May 1978.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The decree establishing COCAP has been enacted. Other aspects of
the legislation for COCAP were reviewed, and agreed upon, during negotiations.
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a)  A special condition of effectiveness would be the enacting of all the
necessary legislation granting COCAP legal personality and ensuring its
permanent financing (paragraph 66).
(b) Conditions of disbursement for the vocational training component would be:
(i) the promulgation of all necessary regulations to implement the legis-
lation establishing COCAP; (ii) the appointment of the members of COCAP's
executing unit; and (iii) the signing of a contract, satisfactory to
the Bank, between the Government and COCAP (paragraph 66).
(c)  Conditions of disbursement for the technological development component
would be:  (i) the obtention by LATU of a loan, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, from the Mortgage Bank of Uruguay; and (ii) the
signing of a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government
and LATU.  A condition of disbursement for the materials testing labora-
tory would be that the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
LATU has assessed the demand for the services to be provided by these
facilities and, on the basis of this assessment, has established a list
of equipment to be included in such laboratory (paragraph 66).
(d) Responsibility for the adult vocational training programs presently
offered by UTU would be transferred to COCAP by January 1, 1979, and in
particular UTU would transfer to COCAP responsibility for its in-plant
training services as well as 20 instructors and course programmers
(paragraph 43).
(e) The Ministry of Labor would assume responsibility for the placement
and folow-up of COCAP's graduates, through its employment service, by
January 1, 1980 (paragraph 43).
(f) COCAP would appoint a rural training coordinator and six regional deputy
coordinators by January 1, 1979 (paragraph 37(b)).
(g) The plans for each training needs survey would be submitted to the Bank
for approval before the initiation of each survey (paragraph 37(e)).
(h) The criteria for undertaking LATU's research sub-projects would be
acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 42).
(i) LATU would implement a new organization scheme (including a Management
Committee; industrial advisory groups; and three new internal divisions)
by January 1, 1979 (paragraph 45).
(j) LATU's annual work programs, which would show an emphasis on export-
oriented industries (while ensuring that these programs are consistent
with the institution's human and financial resources), would be satis-
factory to the Bank (paragraph 45).
(k) LATU would appoint a full-time project implementation team (comprising
a general coordinator, an architect, an engineer, an accountant and a
procurement officer, and supporting staff--all with qualifications,
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank) by October 31,
1978 (paragraph 48).
(1) SEPLACODI would appoint at least one liaison officer each for COCAP and
LATU, by January 1, 1979 (paragraph 49).
(m)  The Government has agreed to establish and maintain a salary structure
for COCAP and LATU conducive to attracting and retaining qualified
personnel for both institutions (paragraph 49).
(n) The portion of the Bank loan to be on-lent to LATU would bear the same
terms as the Bank loan to the Government (paragraph 52).
(o) Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to
COCAP and LATU would be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for their administration and operations, the Government would
provide, or cause to be provided, as required such funds as shall be
needed (paragraph 56).



lHPD IJ426
AIL 197
-U R -)   URAY
VOCATIONAL TMAININ AND
TECHNOLOG.CAL DEV\LOPMENT PROJECT
1    Teohnogka Devetepment Cener
o      grfr M      \ t  Cotd.imtinr  Offke
+¢t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~owm S                                       & A M nos  \  
sm;~~ ~~~~~ s_ odhdeiol
X    2 A0 80 00 
32-
¢4< ,r 1tl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
PAYSANDU                                    T    AN /COC                           A
WL
. BSRAZL
c      :~~~~. E  R.d)..rAUGA
: ARGENTIMNT                                                                                                                b( 
.   X                           A  r X A  N  F / C                O  C f A  N                    <>;  f   At/n/ze~~~~S~;, 
.  :,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y                                                                   S-           OUTHo
0  L  St   ;  ' )          568                                                  51 *             VS            _~~~~~~~~~AMEIC



