Document of
The World Baik                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2972a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND OF THE ASSOCIATION
AND TO THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A PROPOSED LOAN BY THE BANK
TO SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE
POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISME
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT BY THE ASSOCIATION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
ON AN INVESTMENT BY THE CORPORATION
IN SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE
POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISME
FOR AN INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
March 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by melpients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                 CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                 -        CFA 235
CFAF 1 million       -        US$4,255
The CFA Franc is pegged to the French Franc at the fixed rate of CFAF1 -
FF0.02 and floats vis-a-vis the US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SONEPI          July 1 - June 30
SOFISEDIT                 =    October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA          Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de I'Afrique
BCEAO          Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BHS            Banque de l'Habitat du Senegal
BIAO           Banque Internationale pour lAfrique de l'Ouest
BICIS          Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie - Senegal
BNDS           Banque Nationale de Developpment du Senegal
BOAD           Banque Guest Africaine de Developpenent
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEAO           Commnuaute Economique de V'Afrique de l'Ouest
CII            Comite Interministeriel des Investissements
CSCE           Centre Senegalais du Commerce Exterieur
CVCCEP         Commission de Verification des Comptes et de Controle des
Etablissements Publics
DEG            Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EEC            European Economic Community
KfW             Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MIDA           Ministere du Developpement Industriel et de l'Artisanat
ONCAD          Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement
SGBS           Societe Generale de Banque au Senegal
SOFISEDIT      Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'lndustrie et du Tourisme
SONAGA         Societe Nationale 4'Assistance et de Garantie
SONEPI         Societe Nationale d'Etude et de PromDtion Industrielle
SOSEPRA        Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de l'Artisanat
SSE            Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
TCR            Taxe de Cooperation Regionale
TPS            Taxe sur les Prestations de Service
USB            Union Senegalaise de Banque



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
Loan, Credit, Investment and Project Summary
Borrowers:      Republic of Senegal
Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement
de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT)
Beneficiaries: SOFISEDIT
Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI)
Ministry of Industrial Development and Artisans (MIDA)
Amount:          IFC Investment:  CFAF 50 million (about US$250,000 equivalent)
IDA Credit:        SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent)
Bank Loan:         US$6.5 million equivalent
Terms:          IFC Investment:  Equity participation in SOFISEDIT
IDA Credit:        Standard
Bank Loan
to SOFISEDIT:  18 years including 3 years of graze
with a flexible amortization sche,dule,
interest at 9.6 percent p.a. and foreign
exchange risk carried by Government.
Rele nding
Terms:           SDR 0.8 million to SOFISEDIT as subordinated debenture
(IDA Credit)   with flexible interest and principal repayments tied to
dividends and sales of investments. SDR 1.0 million as
grants to SOFISEDIT and SONEPI (for technical assistance).
Project
Description:   The major objective of the project is to assist Senegal's
efforts to promote productive investments, notably, in
export-oriented industries. To that effect, IFC would par-
ticipate in SOFISEDIT's capital increase. In addition, the
proposed project would provide: (a) SOFISEDIT with equity and
term resources to make sound investments in the industrial,
fisheries and tourism sectors; (b) technical assistance to
strengthen SOFISEDIT financially and institutionally; (c)
support to SONEPI and thereby improve the promotion of small-
and medium-scale enterprises; (d) funds to study and identify
appropriate changes in Government policies and prc,cedures to
enhance productive investments; and (e) training for the
Ministry of Industrial Development and Artisans.
Benef its
and Risks:       By providing technical and financial assistance to productive
investments, the project would help increase participation of
local entrepreneurs in the industrial sector and create employ-
ment. In the longer term, the project would build up SOFISEDIT's
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization .



- ii -
capacity to promote and supervise efficiently sub-projects in
the industrial, fisheries and tourism sectors and help the
Government and SONEPI streamline their investment promotion
role. The project faces the risks associated with the difficult
economic climate of Senegal (reduced market, high production
costs) which may discourage entrepreneurs.
Estimated Cost:                             Foreign       Local       Total
--- - --US$ -000-- …_ ___
Sub-projects                                9,800         6,350       16,150
Technical Assistance
(a) SOFISEDIT
(i)  Advisors                           600            150          750
(ii)  Training                            100             -          100
(b) SONEPI
(i)  Performance audit                    90            10          100
(ii)  Budget Support                     200             50          250
(iii)  Consultants                         200            50          250
(c) Ministry of Industrial Development
(i)  Studies                              90            10          100
(ii)  Training                             90            10          100
(d)  Unallocated                              100             -          100
Total Cost (including taxes)        11,270         6,630       17,900
(Taxes)*                                 -        (2,170)      (2,170)
Total Cost Net of Taxes             11,270         4,460       15,730
*    Based on an average tax rate of 15 percent for investments and local technical
assistance expenditures.
Financing Plan:                             Foreign       Local       Total
--------US$ -000-- …
IBRD/IDA                                    8,970            30        9,000
Entrepreneurs                                   -         4,845        4,845
Commercial Banks/Suppliers' Credits         2,300         1,505        3,805
SOFISEDIT                                       -           150          150
Government                                      -           100          100
Total (including Taxes)              11,270         6,630       17,900



- iii. -
SOFISEDIT Capital Increase:                --- -----CFAF million--------
IFC                                             50                         50
Other foreign shareholders                     225             -          225
Other local shareholders                         -           475          475
Total                                    275            475          750
Estimated Disbursements of                FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85
IBRD/IDA Funds
Annual                                2.3       2.7       3.0       1.0
Cumulative                            2.3       5.0       8.0       9.0
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3179a-SE, dated iMarch 26, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND OF THE ASSOCIATION
AND TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION ON A PROPOSED
LOAN BY THE BANK TO SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISME WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL, ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT BY
THE ASSOCIATION TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL, AND ON AN INVESTMENT
BY THE CORPORATION IN SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISME FOR AN INVESTIMENT
PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan to Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie
et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) with the guarantee of the Republic of Senegal for
the equivalent of US$6.5 million, a proposed Development Credit to the Repub-
lic of Senegal for the equivalent of SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million) to
help finance an Investment Promotion Project, and an IFC investment of
CFAF 50 million (approximately US$250,000 equivalent) in the share capital of
SOFISEDIT. The Loan would have a term of 18 years including 3 years of grace,
with interest at9.6 percent per annum and the Development Credit would be on
standard IDA terms (the blend of the Bank Loan and of the IDA Credit would
have a grant element of 23.8 percent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a structural adjustment loan/credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, containing an expanded section on the
economic situation. The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of these
reports. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstay of the tradi-
tional economy is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally
poor, and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins--some of them fed
in the tropical rain zone--have so far been exploited only marginally.
1/ The entire text of this section is substantially the same als that of the
President's Report for the Forestry Project which was approved by the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1981.



-2-
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
the capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of
which consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector,
and a small but fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 5.5
million, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1979 was estimated at US$429.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual
stagnation as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per
annum, hardly more than the population. Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt
to its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly,
in the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal
export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by
sharp fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of
higher rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth
was not raised above the earlier 10 years' level. Output and incomes
were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved, the purchasing power of the rural population
was substantially restored and both agricultural and industrial production
increased markedly. However, the late 1970s saw another series of bad
crops, which adversely affected the economy in 1978 and 1980 and will in
1981 also. The magnitude of these downswings is reflected in the variations
in groundnut crops; from a historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76,
output fell to less than 0.6 million tons in 1977/78; it recovered to about
1.0 million tons in 1978/79, but fell again, to less than 0.8 million tons
in 1979/80 and to a new low of about 0.5 million tons in 1980/81. Industrial
output (excluding groundnut processing) did grow at a fairly even rate of
about 5 percent a year. After recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP
increased at about 5 percent between 1973 and 1977, but in 1978 it is
estimated to have declined by 9 percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78
drought; similarly, due to the bad crops in 1979/80 GDP is expected to
remain below its 1977 level in 1980.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
the price movements of Senegal½s major export and import commodities. In
1974, the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of excep-
tionally high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal-s second export commodity,
but in 1975 export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed in
1976 by a fall in the export prices for phosphate rock. The recent increase
in oil prices brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing
a loss in income of roughly 5 percent of GDP. These swings in international
prices, together with the fluctuations in output, had serious consequences
for domestic prices, public finance and balance of payments.



-3-
Public Finance
7.        The Government has shown some flexibility in adapting its finan-
cial policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974, the retail
prices for rice, sugar and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90 percent in
order to reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the price
hikes for these commodities on the world market. Government also aligned
producer prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were particu-
larly high at that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because
of this latter step was expected to be compensated by additional revenues
from the phosphate mine, such as an 80 percent excess profits tax and
dividends from increased ownership. In 1974, the phosphate price quadrup-
led, and in 1974 and 1975, Government did indeed receive high revenues from
phosphates amounting to roughly US$45 million a year, or 12 percent of tax
receipts.
8.        Public savings after debt service rose from a yearly average of
US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46 million during 1974-76. This higher
level of public savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating
Government to increase public investment outlays from a yearly average of
US$24 million to US$49 million during the same two periods.  In addition,
however, Government purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
increased sharply, mainly because of the increased participation in the
phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility
companies. The total capital outlays of the Government were thLus substan-
tially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large part through
medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service
borne by the Government increased from US$8 million in 1972/73 to US$38
million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of its revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government raised
tax rates, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear thaLt the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside
and maintain rural incomes by importing more cereals and absolving farmers
debts; however, the added financial burden which these measures entailed was
not accompanied by reductions in capital expenditures, which were financed
through heavy commercial borrowing amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and
US$200 million in 1978. As a consequence, in 1980/81, when grace periods
are over, debt service obligations of the budget will reach about US$145
million (or 19.5 percent of Government revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer
recess to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 milliLon in addi-
tional revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform aimed at
removing tariff distortions and administrative deficiencies, wllich also
increased Government receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax
measures in 1980/81 will bring the ratio of Government receipts to GDP to 29
percent, as compared to 19 percent in 1970/71 and 23 percent in 1976/77.



-4-
Balance of Payments
11.       Since 1973 the balance of payments has been under heavy pressure,
resulting in a very large negative balance in the net foreign assets by the
end of 1980. Underlying the deterioration in the external accounts is the
sluggish growth of exports combined with fast growing imports, leading to
increasing current account deficits that could not be covered anymore by
the normal flow of concessionary aid and an acceptable level of commercial
borrowing. Between 1974 and 1976 exceptional high phosphate revenues slowed
the deterioration in the current account, but Government's purchases of large
participations in existing enterprises, created considerable outflows of
private foreign capital, and foreign reserves were not replenished. The
deterioration in the external accounts accelerated in 1978, fueled by losses
in groundnut revenues, strong import demand and the oil price hike, and could
not be arrested by EEC STABEX fund receipts, commercial borrowings, nor the
use of monetary union facilities and higher net short-term commercial banks'
liabilities.  At the end of 1979, nLet foreign assets stood at minus US$319
million, including drawings on the IMF of US$61 million. The balance of
payments picture in 1980 is characterized by a loss in groundnut revenues of
almost US$200 million, partly due to the small harvest and partly to excep-
tionally low world market prices. Moreover the net effect of the 1979 in-
crease in petroleum prices was close to US$90 million. The resulting deficit
on the current account is expected to be absorbed by the first tranche of an
exceptional international aid package amounting to almost US$300 million, of
which US$101 million will be provided by the IMF in the form of drawings on
the Compensatory and Extended Fund Facilities taking some pressure off the
monetary union and the commercial banks. Net foreign assets are expected to
remain in the order of minus US$323 million.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in
world market prices explain part of the fall in net foreign assets since
1973, it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of
export volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt
service related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively
expansionary monetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure
of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels and other
expansionary policies.
Government's Economic and Financial Rehabilitation Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National Assembly,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies
in the economy, and outlined a medium-term stabilization and rehabilitation
program. This program was informally but extensively discussed with the Bank
and the Fund and provided the basis for an agreement with the IMF for the
purchase of US$243 million equivalent in currency under the Extended Fund
Facility, an agreement which was approved by the IMF Board in August 1980, and
a US$60 million structural adjustment loan/credit approved by the Board on
December 18, 1980. The letter of intent from the Government to the IMF and
the statement of economic policy sent to the Bank emphasized various aspects
of the Government-s program.



- 5 -
14.       The global objectives of the Government's program are to stabilize
the economy during the first two of the five years and to achieve a modestly
higher rate of economic growth of 4 percent a year in the following three
years.
15.       Under the program, public savings after debt service would increase
from about 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to over 3 percent of GDP in 1985,
mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to finance at least 15 percent
of the public investment program in the near future, to be improved to 25
percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves as a planning
basis and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short in
years of bad crops. Consequently, financing of local costs by foreign
donors for specific projects is likely to be essential.
16.       Increased private savings will be encouraged by the 2.5 percentage
points increase in interest rates on deposits and savings certificates (an
increase that was introduced in May 1980 together with a similar increase in
the rediscount rate of the Central Bank), and through the allocation of
preferential housing loans to borrowers with good savings performance. In
rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To aLchieve this
goal, the Government has eased price policies and tightened credit policies, in
particular for non-productive projects.
17.       Recognizing that the recent bad crops and the ongoing savings
drive will dampen domestic demand and that production costs in Senegal are
high compared with foreign competition, the Government is taking steps to
provide more protection to domestic producers by raising import duties while
achieving greater uniformity in their application, and by subsidizing export
industries with excess capacity. This policy allows for the fact: that
parity of the local currency is fixed in the framework of the monetary union
to which Senegal belongs.
18.       The level of investments is being reduced somewhat to facilitate
economic stabilization but is planned to increase moderately over the
five-year period of the Rehabilitation Plan. The emphasis of Government's
program is on a shift of total investments toward more productive projects.
A minimum rate of return requirement will weed out the less viable projects
in the public sector, and an improvement in the incentives for private
investors is expected to encourage private undertakings. The propensity to
invest in Senegal is still low because of limited domestic markets and high
production costs, and following the period of active state intervention,
private entrepreneurs have tended to seek Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, to reduce their risks.
19.       The parapublic sector (public enterprises and mixed companies)
represents a serious drain on Government finances and will be placed on a
sounder footing through the conclusion of medium-term program contracts
("contrats-plan") between the Government and individual parapublic enter-
prises, that aim at setting sector objectives and reducing present levels of



- 6 -
budgetary support. More scope will be given to these enterprises to adjust
tariffs to more economic levels. Government's program imposes ceilings on
commercial borrowing abroad and restricts its use to enterprises and pro-
jects that generate a sufficient cash flow to service such debt. It intro-
duced a fee for Government guarantees on debts of mixed enterprises.
Treasury advances and loans to mixed enterprises in financial difficulties
have been drastically reduced and made conditional on the conclusion of a
program contract.
20.       In the agricultural sector, the liabilities resulting from the
uncovered recurrent expenditures of parapublic enterprises had accumulated
to the extent that the Treasury and, indirectly, the money and credit system
were threatened. Moreover, because of weak management, some public institu-
tions had become an obstacle to project implementation. In August 1980,
Government dissolved the central cooperative organization (ONCAD) which
controlled individual cooperatives, as well as the delivery of agricultural
inputs, the extension of agricultural credits and the marketing of crops,
restoring some of its functions to the private sector. The cooperatives
will be reorganized to assume responsibilities for agricultural credit
and seedstocks, and to allow greater farmer participation. Technical
assistance to cooperatives would in future be provided by the regional rural
development agencies that are in charge of extension services to the farmers.
The remaining parapublic agencies in the agricultural sector will also be
reorganized with a view to restore their financial soundness and increase
their operational efficiency. Subsidies on agricultural inputs were removed
with the exception of those for fertilizer for which studies are under way.
The agricultural reform will lead to a substantial reduction in the number
of staff, reduce the annual deficits that have been supported by the budget,
and may eventually allow higher net revenues to farmers.
Prospects
21.       The Government-s long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas
less afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops
other than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being
developed in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River.
This approach will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of
its climate and world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food
imports. The overhaul of institutions in the groundnut sector is expected
to restore production to previous levels and even to increase production by
1.8 percent a year if, in the medium term, the groundnut prices paid to the
farmer can be raised as expected. Agriculture research will be oriented
more to farm systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering
the costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adaptation to
farmers needs.
22.       The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate mining,
and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover, contracts
have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans for a phos-
phoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited prospects



- 7 -
for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest scale
of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in export perfor-
mance can be expected. Government counts heavily on the implementation of a
number of large investments in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence
on rice imports. However, since such investments have long gestation
periods and are difficult to implement, a cautious view of the long-term
outlook is warranted. Even if economic growth could be raised to a modest 4
percent a year between 1982 and 1985, the annual growth rate between 1977
and 1985, because of the decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980, would probably not
exceed 2.4 percent a year, which is still below population growth.
23.       The economic and financial rehabilitation plan, and the excep-
tional foreign aid based on it will help Senegal to overcome the effects of
the recent bad crops, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built
up over the past five years. Strict implementation of this plan is there-
fore crucial for Senegal s prospects for economic growth and creditworthi-
ness.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
24.       The Bank Group has had 49 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding funds amount to US$354.8 million, including 26 IDA c:redits, 14
Bank loans, four blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, and one
blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of January 31, 1981, and notes
on the implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these pro-
jects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing
difficult public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local
staff for key positions. But institutional bottlenecks in several sectors
constitute the largest obstacle to efficient project implementation.
25.       The Government is well aware of the need to increase absorptive
capacity and particularly of the importance of assuring good management
supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the ongoing
Para-public Sector Technical Assistance Project initiates and imiplements
measures necessary to resolve on a sectorwide basis some of the issues
regarding financial management and Government control of public enterprises
and mixed companies, particularly those that are channels for Bank Group
assistance. The project, now at its halfway stage, is progressing reason-
ably well despite a difficult start but it is still too early to assess its
impact. The Government created in late 1978 an Inter-ministerial Committee
(Comite de Relance des Investissements) which works closely with foreign aid
donors, to expedite preparation of new investment projects, and to identify
bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action. The work of this
committee has already begun to produce some positive results, and will be
strengthened under the Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning through reinforcement of its secretariat.



- 8 -
26.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1979-85 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 52
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will remain at around that level until
1985. The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase
from 3.8 percent in 1980 to about 7 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly
due to the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total
outstanding and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 41 percent by 1985.
27.       The Bank Group's project financing and economic and sector work,
which is designed to support the Government's development strategy, has six
main objectives.  First, priority continues to be given to rural development,
including development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region,
rainfed agriculture in the well-watered southern regions of the country, and
intensification of groundnut production and diversification into new crops and
new regions. This effort of diversification has led the Bank Group to finance
a Small Rural Operations Project in FY80, a reforestation project earlier this
year and a project designed to improve agricultural research will be submitted
to the Board in the near future. Agricultural lending over the next few years
is expected to account for about 20 percent of the total. Second, the Bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing
industrial sector through SOFISEDIT to which a third line of credit is proposed
under this project. Diversification of the economy is also pursued through an
ongoing project for the development of tourism infrastructure. Third, Bank
Group projects have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's infrastructure through lending to the four modes
of transport. An engineering project approved in FY79 finances studies and
technical assistance for water supply and sanitation development in eleven
secondary centers and is paving the way for Bank Group involvement in that
sector. Similarly a Power Engineering Project should identify possibilities
for Bank financing in this sector. Fourth, assistance in the field of social
services is being provided under the Third Education Project approved in FY79
to help the Government re-orient and expand the country's education system at
all levels. Bank strategy in the education sector has focussed on meeting the
need for trained high- and middle-level managers and technicians in the modern
sector and in agriculture and improving access to primary education, parti-
cularly in rural areas. The Bank remains conscious of the need to support the
social services (within the limits of the Government's ability to bear the
recurrent costs involved) by preparing carefully identified projects; to that
end, a Primary Health Care Project is under preparation. Fifth, the energy
sector is being supported through the use of funds under the Project Prepara-
tion Facility for the preparation of an offshore oil exploration project.
Finally, continuing assistance is being provided to help Government increase
its absorptive capacity for planning, executing, and managing development
projects through institutional support within individual Bank Group projects.
Several Bank Group operations, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port
infrastructure, loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development, have the
additional merit of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.



28.       While project aid is vital, Senegal's long-observed economic
stagnation and the deep-seated problems that have culminated in the present
crisis call for additional, special remedies. One is economic advice. In
1979, for instance, the Bank helped Government devise a policy package aimed
at improving the balance of payments while maintaining whatever growth
momentum was left in the economy, through waste reductions, cutting consumer
subsidies, and higher taxes on urban dwellers, rather than through cuts in
groundnut producer prices or curtailing productive investments. Second,
and far more importantly, Government's needs for financial and technical
assistance during the period of structural adjustment have led the Bank/IDA
to propose a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit which was approved by the
Board in December 1980.
PART III - THE SECTOR
A. Sector Description
29.       Introduction.  With the secondary sector contributing about 24
percent of GDP in 1980, Senegal has a somewhat larger industrial base than
many African countries. Average growth of the industrial sector since
1960 has however been modest. Industrial development has been based on
the processing of primary products (phosphate, cement, groundnut: oil), and
the substitution of manufactured imports. Although the industrial sector
suffers from Senegal's current economic difficulties, further growth in
manufacturing is possible through rehabilitation and expansion of existing
firms, new import substitution opportunities and some export oriented invest-
ments. Two other branches also hold good promise for productive investment:
(i) fishing and fish processing industry; and (ii) tourism industry which
now contributes about 25 percent of non-merchandise exports.
30.       Manufacturing.  Since independence in 1960, manufacturing has
grown at an annual rate of 5.7 percent and its share of GDP from 19 percent
to about 24 percent in 1980. Four main activities contribute the bulk of
output: (i) food processing, including oil milling (37 percent of sales);
(ii) chemicals including oil refining (18 percent); (iii) phosphate mining
(15 percent); and (iv) textiles (10 percent). In terms of size distribution,
the sector is broken down between a small number of large state and foreign-
owned firms, a moderate number of medium size firms and a large number
of small Senegalese-owned firms. The contribution of the manufacturing sector
to economic development, in terms of value added, employment (30,000 permanent
and 70,000 seasonal jobs), and decentralization, has been modest. Indeed,
industrialization faces several constraints in Senegal: a low 1Level of
investment, unfavorable production costs, a limited market and an industrial
policy pursuing several--and sometimes conflicting--objectives.
31.       Senegal's philosophy of "guided liberalism"  has resuLted in exten-
sive state intervention in the ownership, management and operatLons of large
firms in key sectors. With regard to new investments, Government s attention
has concentrated on large-scale, capital-intensive projects (Dakar-Marine,



- 10 -
Faleme Iron, and Textiles). The Tariff and Investment Codes have tended to
favor import substitution and to discourage upstream linkages. Current
economic difficulties have led the Government to reduce state intervention
in industry and revive private sector investment. The 1979 economic rehabil-
itation program includes measures in favor of productive investments. In
addition, the Investment Code is being revised to link benefits to local value
added and an export incentive system is being introduced for textiles, shoes,
processed fish, fertilizers and agricultural products (other than ground-
nuts) which represent one third of Senegal's traditional exports. The invest-
ment climate should benefit from this shift toward a private sector, export-
oriented and better integrated industrial development, provided, however, that
administrative controls affecting prices, market share and subsidies are
alleviated.
32.       Fishing.  Since independence, fisheries have been the fastest
growing sector in Senegal, accounting for about 5 percent of GDP and 11
percent of total export receipts. Artisanal fishing is important in terms of
overall catch (some 70 percent of total), employment creation (50,000 jobs)
and protein supply for the local population. The industrial fleet supplies
an important fish processing industry which includes 28 firms (canned tuna,
frozen fish, shrimps, fish meal, etc.). Despite this rapid growth, the sector
experiences serious problems including overfishing of certain species, fleet
obsolescence, inadequate port infrastructure, and fleet mismanagement result-
ing in reduced maintenance and therefore underutilization.
33.       A vigorous effort is currently underway with the assistance of
external agencies (IBRD, CCCE, and BADEA) to reorganize fishing sector
administration and to improve both infrastructure and fleet management. In
1979, the Government created a Secretariat of State for Maritime Fishing to
develop and implement a more coherent policy in the sector. Its immediate
tasks are to disengage the Government from poorly run and unprofitable state
enterprises, to negotiate fishing agreements with neighboring countries
(Mauritania, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, etc.), and to enforce compliance
by foreign fleets of the 200-mile limit. Simultaneously, an IBRD-financed
fisheries plan of action is being finalized by consultants. It has revealed
the need for extensive additional investments in the fleet (CFAF 21 to 29
billion over the next ten years). As the recently designated banking partner
for the sector, SOFISEDIT would be in a position to support Government policies
by developing a sizeable portfolio in the fishing and fish processing indust-
ries. The proposed project would assist SOFISEDIT in this important new task.
34.       Tourism.  Senegal has significant tourism potential around and south
of Dakar, the capital city, as well as in Casamance, in the southern part
of the country. Owing to rapid development of hotel capacity (presently,
6,000 beds), more than 200,000 arrivals are recorded annually in Senegal,
bringing gross earnings of about CFAF 13 billion. Tourism is already Senegal's
third largest foreign exchange earner after groundnuts and phosphate; it also
makes an important employment contribution since two indirect jobs are created
for every hotel job.



- 11 -
35.       Tourism development received priority in Government-s development
plans during the 1970s. Government's commitment was demonstrated by the
creation of a Secretariat of State for Tourism, responsible for promotion
and coordination of tourism investments, by special tax provisions for
hotel investments, and by heavy Government investment in hotel construction
through equity participation in mixed enterprises. Now that tourism has
passed its infant stage, Government has decided to limit its intervention
to the provision of infrastructure and to leave hotel construction and
management in private hands. Thus, in the Petite Cote Tourism development
scheme, Government has financed, with the assistance of the Bank, basic
infrastructure and common services and left hotel development to the private
sector, while equity and long-term loans were made available to developers
through Societe d'Amenagement de la Petite Cote (SAPCO) and SOFISEDIT respec-
tively. The private sector is showing increasing interest in hotel construc-
tion. To encourage and develop this trend, suitable long-term financing
should be made available to private entrepreneurs. The proposed project would
reinforce SOFISEDIT's crucial role in providing term resources for further
hotel development.
B.   Investment Promotion
36.       A number of Government ministries and agencies share the respon-
sibility for investment promotion in Senegal: Overall, the Ministry of
Plan and Cooperation establishes and monitors Senegal's national development
plans. It also administers Investment Code benefits. The Ministry of
Finance and Economic Affairs is responsible for fiscal, tariff and price
policies. Ministries in charge of sector development include the State
Secretariat for Fisheries, the State Secretariat for Tourism which already
receive Bank Group technical assistance, and the Ministry of Industrial
Development and Artisans (MIDA) which is described below. Specialized
agencies include Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de l'Artisanat (SOSEPRA),
the Dakar Free Trade Zone, Centre Senegalais du Commerce Exterieur (CSCE), and
of greater importance in the context of the proposed project, Societe Nationale
d'Etudes et de Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI), which is also described
below.
37.       The Ministry of Industrial Development (MIDA) is responsible
for designing and carrying out Government policies in the industrial and
artisanal sectors.  It also monitors Government investments in these sectors
and appraises projects eligible for Investment Code benefits. At appraisal,
it became apparent that the Directorate of Industry had some difficulties:
(i) in developing a coherent industrial strategy as it involves several
Government ministries and agencies; and (ii) in processing industrial invest-
ment dossiers for Government approval. Accordingly, the proposed project
would finance training for MIDA staff and consultants' services to undertake
studies of the investment process so as to improve the coherence between
industrial development objectives and policies currently affecting investment
decisions (see para. 54).



- 12 -
38.       SONEPI was established in 1972 as a mixed enterprise with UNIDO
assistance to help local businessmen establish and expand their own enter-
prises. SONEPI's assistance takes the form of feasibility and marketing
studies, equity participation and loan guarantees, training and extension
work, and management of industrial estates. It is organized into four opera-
tional sections (studies, training, industrial information and artisanal
affairs) and its professional staff is mostly Senegalese. Although the
quality of its staff is satisfactory, SONEPI suffers from a bureaucratic
bias which adversely affects initiative and responsiveness in its operations.
Its limited investment budget results in poor building maintenance, inadequate
furnishing and transport problem. In addition, lack of specialized technical
expertise hinders project identification and client assistance activities.
Nevertheless, SONEPI has the potential and willingness to improve its effec-
tiveness. For that purpose, it needs to: (a) focus on its core function of
project identification and assistance, and (b) abandon some of the additional
tasks imposed on it by the Government and other agencies. Accordingly, a
specific component has been included in the proposed project to help SONEPI
upgrade the quality of its key services (see para. 53).
C.   Investment Financing
39.       The Financial Sector.  A member of Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine,
Senegal shares with Benin, Ivory Coast, Togo, Niger and Upper Volta, a common
currency (CFA franc), a regional Central Bank (BCEAO) and joint credit and
monetary policies. Its banking system includes six commercial banks, two
development banks (one of which being SOFISEDIT), one housing bank, and a few
leasing and consumer finance companies. The major features of BCEAO's credit
policy are outlined below:
(a) Rediscount: Within overall credit and Central Bank refinancing
ceilings, local banks can refinance up to 35 percent of their
loan portfolio (exclusive of agricultural seasonal credit and
Government guaranteed loans). Rediscount accommodations are
decided on a case-by-case basis, depending on the applicant bank's
liquidity position. Furthermore, any loan above CFAF 70 million
(whether discounted or not) is subject to the Central Bank's
prior approval. Rediscount is available to all banks for loans of
up to ten years. Commercial and development banks are treated
equally.
(b) Sectoral policy: The banks are obliged to direct two thirds of
their lending towards priority sectors (agriculture, fisheries,
industry, tourism, transport and housing).
(c)  Interest rates:   Preferential interest rates for priority sectors
have been a feature of the Government's policy for some time. Since
April 1980, a preferential interest rate (9 to 11 percent) is
applied on loans to Government, small-scale enterprises, 1/ short-
term crop financing, and private housing. These loans can be
1/   Local enterprises with outstanding credit below CFAF 30 million.



- 13 -
discounted at 8 percent. Credits in other areas bear normal rates
(10.5 to 15.5 percent) and can be discounted at 10.5 percent with
the Central Bank. 1/ According to the latest data, consumer prices
rose by about 13 percent in the year through April, 1980. The rate
of inflation may well reach 14 to 15 percent in Calendar 1980, but
is expected to decline back to 10 percent over the next three years.
Except for preferential rates, the BCEAO interest rate structure--
which applies to all loans whether discounted or financed from
other sources--is therefore adequate to cope with inflation.
From 1976 to 1979, total credit outstanding in Senegal increased by 77 per-
cent. During this period, non productive loans (trade and individuals) have
increased much faster than credit to productive sectors and the share of
industry has shown a marked decline. Moreover, the economic situation in
Senegal deters both private entrepreneurs, who are now more inclined to dis-
invest, and the Government, which cannot meet its recurrent obligations, from
investing in the equity of Senegalese enterprises.  Initial returns to equity
are often negative in Senegal and payment of dividends subordinated to debt
service. Furthermore, capital gains are difficult to realize because the
Senegalese capital market is extremely narrow. The Central Bank has recently
imposed stringent quantitative ceilings on bank portfolios. This restrictive
policy should have no adverse effect on SOFISEDIT, the major beneficiary of
the proposed project, as it lends only for productive purposes and draws most
of its resources from external lines of credit. In addition, the recent in-
terest rate increase will make SOFISEDIT more competitive vis-a-vis the com-
mercial banks while allowing a large spread on present and future borrowings.
SOFISEDIT
40.       The institution. Created in 1974 with Bank Group assisitance, SOFI-
SEDIT is an independent institution specialized in long-term financing of
industrial and tourism projects. It was recently designated by the Govern-
ment to be the lead bank for fisheries and fish processing industries. Its
capital, initially set at CFAF 650 million, is held by the Governiment, BCEAO,
and institutions such as IFC, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
of France, Deutsche Entwicklungs-Gesellschaft (DEG) of the Federial Republic of
Germany, and local Senegalese banks. SOFISEDIT shareholders approved in Feb-
ruary 1981 a capital increase of CFAF 750 million, which will bring the capi-
tal up to CFAF 1.4 billion. SOFISEDIT-s Board takes an active r,ole in over-
seeing the company and approves all loans and investments. Management is
entrusted to a President General Manager assisted by eight qualified profes-
sionals working under the supervision of an operations manager. Subproject
appraisals are satisfactory but investment supervision is still weak. To
1/   Prior to April the following interest rate structure was in effect:
Discount Rate      Final Rate
Preferential                       5.5%           6.5% to 8.5%
Normal                             8%             8% to 13%



- 14 -
strengthen supervision, SOFISEDIT has recruited additional staff and a train-
ing program would be carried out under the proposed project (see para.52).
The key features of SOFISEDIT's lending policy, as described in the by-laws
and policy statement are as follows:
-    it cannot commit more than 20 percent of its unimpaired capital to
any one client or finance more than 50 percent of the cost of any
subproject; 1/
-    equity holdings cannot exceed 75 percent of SOFISEDIT's capital and
each equity participation is limited to 15 percent of SOFISEDIT's
own equity or 25 percent of the client's capital;
-    it cannot assume the foreign exchange risk on external borrowings;
-    interest rates are within the range authorized by BCEAO: 9 to 11
percent for SSE and 10.5 to 15.5 percent per annum for regular
clients.
SOFISEDIT's lending policies and procedures are adequate; its entry in
fisheries credit should, however, be prudent. SOFISEDIT provided assurances
at negotiations that it would limit fisheries loans to 35 percent of its
portfolio outstanding (Section 2.10 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
41.       Operations and Finance.  As of September 1979, SOFISEDIT had ap-
proved 71 projects for a total of CFAF 4.7 billion and its portfolio out-
standing stood at CFAF 1.9 billion. Although operations have not grown as
rapidly as expected at the time of inception, SOFISEDIT has nevertheless
played a key role in supporting investments and participated in roughly one
fourth of all industrial and tourism investments undertaken in Senegal over
the first five years of its existence. Out of 71 approvals, 35 were for
medium-scale industrial projects, 22 for SSE (fixed assets below CFAF 50
million) and 14 for tourism. These projects have generated or maintained five
thousand jobs. At the end of FY79, SOFISEDIT reported arrears of CFAF 295
million of which CFAF 104 million in principal (5.7 percent of total out-
standing). Investments affected by these arrears amounted to CFAF 413 million
or 23 percent of the portfolio. Government has recently honored its guarantee
on SOFISEDIT's loans to Societe Nationale pour la Promotion du Tourisme (26
percent of total arrears).
42.        SOFISEDIT had total assets of CFAF 2.1 billion as of September 1979.
Its debt equity ratio was then 3:1. Since 1978, SOFISEDIT has been able to
generate an operating surplus, which has, however, been more than offset by
prudent provisions for bad and doubtful loans and investments (CFAF 211 million),
resulting in cumulative losses of CFAF 145 million as of September 1979. The
1/   SOFISEDIT-s management indicated at negotiations that it would seek
from its Board an increase in the exposure limit from 20 percent to
25 percent of its unimpaired capital and from 50 percent to 70 per-
cent of subproject costs; the latter would only apply for projects
with assets below CFAF 100 million.



- 15 -
steady deterioration in SOFISEDIT's financial position may be ascribed to a
level of operations lower than expected and uncompensated for by a sufficient
spread. There are three main reasons for SOFISEDIT's difficult take-off:
(a) Industrial investments have been much lower than expected and,
between 1975 and 1979, the share of industry and tourism dropped
from 47 percent to 18 percent of total term credit outstanding in
Senegal.
(b) A change in banking regulations (1975) put SOFISEDIT in direct
competition with well-established commercial banks which were
required to increase their medium-term lending to pro,ductive
sectors.
(c)  The effects of this unexpected competition were compounded by
SOFISEDIT's own weaknesses: an insufficient equity base, a
restrictive exposure limit and a lack of management agressiveness.
43.       Prospects for SOFISEDIT have changed significantly ovesr the last
year and its future appears brighter:
(a) Recent credit and rediscount restrictions imposed by the Central
Bank (para. 39) have made SOFISEDIT the only institution with
access to significant external resources for industrial investment
and the upward revision of the interest rate structures (April 1980)
substantially increases SOFISEDIT's spread.
(b)  A new Managing Director (a previous Manager of Operations and ad-
visor to the President of West Africa Development Bank) has been
appointed and a new orientation has been developed for SOFISEDIT.
This strategy includes a more active approach to projiect promotion
through equity participation, increased lending for tourism and
development of fisheries credit. It was presented in a strategy
paper and discussed at negotiations. To help implement this
strategy, SOFISEDIT has requested the services of a senior finan-
cial advisor, an industrial engineer and a fisheries c_redit expert
(para. 52).
(c) Government's determination to give SOFISEDIT a more prominent
role in assisting productive investments is supported by SOFISEDIT's
shareholders and external lenders who have agreed to increase
SOFISEDIT's capital and extend new lines of credit.
44.       Based on an existing pipeline of roughly CFAF 2.5 billion and con-
servative growth estimates, SOFISEDIT would be expected to aenerate a profit
after provisions beginning in 1983. The proposed Bank loan, sulbordinated
debenture and IFC investment would meet a third of SOFISEDIT's resource needs.
Additional resources would come from the other shareholders, central bank
rediscounts, KfW, BOAD and CCCE. Based on these assumptions, SOFISEDIT's
operational and financial prospects are satisfactory.



- 16 -
D.   Bank Group Role in the Beneficiary Sectors
45.       The Bank and IFC helped create SOFISEDIT by a first line of credit
of US$3.0 million (Loan 987-SE, FY1974) and an equity investment of US$240,000,
respectively. A Project Completion Report (the conclusions of which are re-
capitulated in para. 42) is being finalized. It covers the first five years
of SOFISEDIT's operations and reviews the reasons for its mixed performance.
A second line of credit of US$4.2 million (Loan 1332-SE, FY1977) is fully
committed and will be fully disbursed shortly. In the tourism sector, two
loans, totalling US$13.6 million (Loan 1412-T-SE and Loan 1413-SE, FY1977)
finance infrastructure and hotel development on the Petite Cote resort area,
south of Dakar. Infrastructure works are virtually completed, one hotel has
recently opened, and an active promotion campaign is underway to attract other
hotel developers.  IFC recently made a loan of US$3.0 million to Societe
Hoteliere du Barachois (Novotel group) for an hotel in Dakar. In the fish-
eries sector, the Bank has co-financed the Dakar Fishing Port Project (Loan
1405-T-SE, FY1977 - US$6.0 million) including construction of a new fishing
mole and  design of a Master Plan for fisheries development.  This document,
to be completed shortly, will include recommendations for rational sector
development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The proposed Investment Promotion project was identified in December
1979, appraised in May 1980 and negotiated in March 1981 with a delegation
headed by His Excellency, Louis Alexandrenne, Minister of Planning and Coope-
ration. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 3179a-SE, dated March 26, 1981 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III indicates the
timetable of key events in project preparation and processing.
47.       The project would support Government policy of renewed emphasis on
productive investments. It is an attempt to broaden the impact of Bank
lending for industry through SOFISEDIT, by strengthening SONEPI, and by
assisting the Government in several aspects of industrial policy.
Project Description
48.       The project would include:
(a) an IFC investment of about US$250,000 in SOFISEDIT's equity, the
increase of which has been allowed from CFAF 650 million to CFAF
1,400 million (see para. 61);
(b) an IBRD line of credit to SOFISEDIT for financing investments
in industry, tourism and fisheries (IBRD - US$6.5 million);



- 17 -
(c)  a subordinated Government loan to SOFISEDIT for the exclusive
purpose of financing equity investments in Senegalese firms (IDA -
US$1 million);
(d)  a two-year technical assistance and training program to strengthen
SOFISEDIT (IDA - US$700,000);
(e)  a performance audit of SONEPI; technical assistance to its staff,
and provision of goods and services to improve its operations
(IDA - US$500,000); and
(f)  policy-oriented studies to identify appropriate changes in
Government policies and procedures to enhance productive invest-
ments and training for the Ministry of Industrial Development
(IDA - US$200,000).
In addition, an amount of US$100,000 has been left unallocated to cover
contingencies related to the implementation of the technical assistance
component.
49.       Line of Credit to SOFISEDIT.  It would be a standard Bank loan of
US$6.5 million guaranteed by the Republic of Senegal. Subloans would be
made to economically and financially viable subprojects in sectors open to
SOFISEDIT's intervention, including hotels, agro-processing enterprises,
chemicals, textiles, fisheries, etc.   All subprojects appraisals would
include, in addition to the financial rate of return, investment cost per job,
local value added and estimates of foreign exchange earned or saved (Section
2.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). All subprojects would be submitted to
the Bank for review. Prior Bank approval would be necessary for each subloan
above the free limit (US$250,000). The aggregate free limit would be US$2.5
million (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). For all subprojects
above the free limit, as well as for projects below the free limit for which
prices on internationally traded goods are available, SOFISEDIT would calcu-
late the economic rate of return which would normally be above 10 percent.
The Bank would refinance 100 percent of SOFISEDIT's subloans.
50.       The proposed Bank loan to SOFISEDIT would be for 18 years including
3 years of grace. It would be repaid according to a flexible amortization
schedule based on aggregate subloan repayments. The terms of SCIFISEDIT's
subloans would range from 4 to 15 years (including grace periods of up to 3
years), averaging 8 years for industrial projects, 10 years for fisheries
projects and 12 years for tourism projects. Within BCEAO's interest rates
structure, SOFISEDIT would charge market rates or a minimum spretad of 3
percent above the cost of borrowed funds, whichever is higher (Section 2.08(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). SOFISEDIT would pass on the Bank's standard
commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum (Section 3.02(a) of the! draft Loan
Agreement) to sub-borrowers. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the Bank loan for a 0.5 percent fee passed on by SOFISEDIT to sub-
borrowers (Section 2.08 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
51.       Equity Contribution to SOFISEDIT.  Funds equivalent to US$1 million
of the proposed IDA credit would be onlent by the Government to SOFISEDIT for
the exclusive purpose of financing equity investments in Senegalese firms in
the industrial, fishing and tourism sectors. These resources woula be passed
on to SOFISEDIT as a subordinated debenture. Interest paid by SOFISEDIT to
the Government would be tied to the dividends earned annually on the equity
investments and principal repayments to the proceeds of their sale to the
original promoter or other investors. A portion of the dividends and sale
proceeds would be used to cover SOFISEDIT's administrative costs. This special
feature of the project has been developed to: (i) overcome the difficulty of
Senegalese-owned firms to find adequate equity; (ii) improve the financing
plan of SOFISEDIT-financed subprojects; and (iii) stimulate equity investment
by SOFISEDIT which, at this stage, cannot afford to commit borrowed resources
in equity investments which normally do not yield income for several years.
SOFISEDIT's exposure limit for equity investments (15 percent of its equity
and 25 percent of the client's capital) would apply to this component.
SOFISEDIT would be expected to purchase equity in 10 to 15 small- and medium-
size enterprises either starting or expanding their operations. All equity
investments financed under this component would be submitted to the Associa-
tion for approval. (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Joint Project Agreement and
para. 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Technical Assistance to SOFISEDIT.  The project would finance:
(i) two man-years of a senior advisor to assist the President General
Manager in organization, financial management and corporate
strategy;
(ii) two man-years of an industrial engineer to strengthen project
supervision, monitor equity investments and develop cooperation
with SONEPI; and
(iii) two man-years of a fisheries credit specialist to review the demand
for fisheries credit, set up a new fisheries credit department, and
train its staff.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of these
experts would be satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.04 of the draft
Joint Project Agreement). Finally, SOFISEDIT would adopt a staff training
program, which would be submitted before December 31, 1981, for review and
comment by the Association (Section 2.09 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
53.       Operating Support to SONEPI.  To relieve some of the constraints
to investment promotion and assistance (para 38), the project would finance:
(i) a performance audit of SONEPI's operations and organization, carried
out by consultants, to review past performance, identify bottlenecks,
and prepare a three-year work program; approval by the Association
of the results of the performance audit would be a condition of
disbursement for expenditures under (ii) and (iii) below (para. 4(e)
of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement);



- 19 -
(ii)  the provision of goods and services (such as equipment, furnishings,
supplies, transportation, etc.) needed to improve SONEPI's opera-
tional efficiency, upon approval of the audit by the Association
(Section 3.03 of the draft Joint Project Agreement and Schedule 1,
para. 4, of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and
(iii)  consultant services to assist SONEPI's own staff with specialized
aspects of project identification and/or assistance to enterprises.
54.       Technical Assistance to MIDA.  In support of Government's policy
of stimulating productive investments, the project would finance consultant
services to assist MIDA's staff in carrying out: (i) a critical path analysis
of the approval process for industrial investments in Senegal with a view to
identify and remove bottlenecks; and (ii) a review of the coherence between
industrial development objectives and various policy instruments affecting
these objectives. The conclusions and recommendations of the two industrial
policy studies would be discussed with IDA, and agreed recommendations would
be implemented by the Government in consultation with IDA (Section 3.04 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the project would
finance training for MIDA staff.
Project Costs and Financing
55.       Total project costs are estimated at US$17.9 million equivalent
including taxes of US$2.2 million (12.3 percent). Foreign exchange costs
would be US$11.3 million (63 percent of total project costs). Estimates for
consulting services and technical assistance are based on recent contracts
offered in Senegal and other Western African countries. Man-month costs for
six man-years of advisors and 36 man-months of short-term consultants average
US$10,700 (plus US$3,000 for reimbursable expenses in the case of short-term
consultants).
56.       The proposed Bank Loan of US$6.5 million and IDA Credit of SDR
2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) would cover about 80 percent of
the foreign exchange costs of the project. The remaining foreign exchange
costs which are related to subprojects would be covered by commercial bank
loans and suppliers' credits. Most taxes would be paid by entrepreneurs
receiving loans and equity investments and the balance (US$0.1 million) by
SOFISEDIT and SONEPI for technical assistance. The proposed Bank Loan to
SOFISEDIT would be for 18 years including 3 years of grace. Part of the IDA
Credit would finance the technical assistance to MIDA and a further portion
would be onlent by Government to SOFISEDIT to acquire equity participations
under a Financing Agreement acceptable to the Association (para. 51). The
balance of the Credit would be: (i) partly passed on to SOFISEDIT as a grant
to finance the technical assistance program under the same Financing Agree-
ment; and (ii) partly passed on to SONEPI as a grant under a separate Financ-
ing Agreement acceptable to the Association (Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Both Financing Agreements would be
executed before disbursement of the affected components (para. 4 of Schedule 1
to the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Retroactive Financing
57.       Retroactive financing of about US$780,000 equivalent would be
permitted to cover the following expenditures:
(i) the partial cost of subprojects appraised by SOFISEDIT and found
acceptable by the Bank which cannot be financed presently as the
Bank's second line of credit to SOFISEDIT is fully committed
(US$600,000 for expenditures incurred after December 31, 1980);
(ii) the cost of recruitment, settlement and two months salary for
the senior advisor and the fisheries expert for SOFISEDIT, whose
services have started or are about to start (US$130,000 for expendi-
tures incurred after August 31, 1980); and
(iii) the fees of the consultant responsible for carrying out SONEPI's
performance audit, which should be completed rapidly~, so that
SONEPI's work program can be initiated as early as possible
(US$50,000 for expenditures incurred after February 28, 1981).
Project Implementation
58.       The project would be carried out by the Government, SOFISEDIT and
SONEPI with the assistance of experts and consultants under terms of refer-
ence and contracts acceptable to IDA. In addition to its audited state-
ments, SOFISEDIT would submit progress reports to the Bank and the Association
including information on the financial and economic merits of approved sub-
projects and on the implementation of the technical assistance program (Sec-
tion 3.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.06 of the draft Joint
Project Agreement). SONEPI would have its accounts audited annually by audi-
tors acceptable to IDA (Section 5.02 of the Joint Project Agreement) and
submit progress reports (Section 3.06 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Concerning implementation of the equity investment scheme, the subordinated
loan to SOFISEDIT would be committed gradually as SOFISEDIT's own equity
investments are made over time.
Procurement and Disbursements
59.       SOFISEDIT is expected to follow its usual procurement procedures
which have proven adequate to ensure that goods and services are suitable and
reasonably priced. Goods to be purchased for the operational support of
SONEPI would be procured according to local procurement procedures (Schedule
to the Joint Project Agreement). These procedures are acceptable to the
Association. Loan and Credit proceeds would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 85 percent of
local expenditures up to the amount of SOFISEDIT's subloan or equity
investment as authorized by the Bank;
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost for the experts and the
training program in SOFISEDIT;
(iii) 100 percent of the total cost (net of taxes) for short-term consult-
ing services to SONEPI and MIDA; and



- 21 -
(iv) 100 percent of the total cost (net of taxes) for equipment and
goods to be purchased by SONEPI.
Benefits and Risks
60.       Under the line of credit and equity component, SOFISEDIT is ex-
pected to finance about 35 financially and economically viable subprojects
in the manufacturing, fisheries and tourism sectors. These subprojects
would represent an investment of US$16 million. Although the creation of
new jobs is likely to be limited (700 new jobs at a cost of US$23,500 per
job), the project would make an important contribution towards the preser-
vation of current employment in industry by strenghtening existing firms
through modernization and expansion. SOFISEDIT's overall efficiency and the
quality of its investments should improve and, as a result of this project,
the capital increase and renewed donors' support, it is expected to play a
leading role in the promotion of productive investments. Similarly, the
SONEPI and MIDA components would foster greater responsiveness to enter-
preneurs' needs on the part of SONEPI and help remove administrative bottle-
necks in the investment process. The project's potential benefits must be
balanced against its risks. The small size of the domestic market, extensive
government red tape, and current economic uncertainties in Senega,l are con-
straints facing domestic and foreign investors alike. To offset the small
size of the domestic market, the project has sought to focus in part on two
promising export sectors, fishing and tourism. A beginning in reducing
bureaucratic delays is expected to result from the studies carried out under
the project by MIDA. Finally, SOFISEDIT's capacity in a time of financial
constraint to furnish long-term finance and equity for domestic and foreign
investors, as well as SONEPI's enhanced efficiency in appraising local enter-
prises investment proposals is expected to ensure that perceived uncertainties
are minimized.
PART V - THE IFC INVESTMENT
61.       It is proposed that IFC exercise its rights to 500 shares of
SOFISEDIT at a par value of CFAF 100,000 each which would be issued under the
capital increase approved on February 27, 1981. The total investment would
amount to CFAF 50 million or about US$250,000. Although the past operating
results of SOFISEDIT did not reach the levels originally expected, with the
proposed strengthening of the management of SOFISEDIT and the improved margins
on lending, SOFISEDIT would be able to become profitable and play an important
role in the development of Senegal. IFC's exercise of its rights at this time
is important for SOFISEDIT as the lenders and other shareholders consider the
continued support of IFC vital for SOFISEDIT. The other shareholders have
given firm commitment to also exercise their rights. IFC will continue to
have a representative on SOFISEDIT's Board to help assure that SOFISEDIT pur-
sues sound investment policies and provide SOFISEDIT with the benefit of the
experience and assistance of a close relationship with IFC. SOF'ISEDIT's over-
all portfolio and reserve for losses are now considered adequate by the audi-
tors. Current circumstances and the new management now in place permit a
positive view of SOFISEDIT-s future profitability. Although no dividends
can be expected in the near future, the proposed capital increase and addi-
tional earnings can permit SOFISEDIT to make up past losses by ]L986. Earnings
would then reach a level providing a return of some 15 percent per year and
SOFISEDIT would enter into a period in which dividend payments could commence.



- 22 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Societe Financiere
Senegalaise pour le Developpement de lIndustrie et du Tourisme, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between
the Republic of Senegal and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agree-
ment between the Association and SOFISEDIT and SONEPI, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement, of the draft Development
Credit Agreement, and of the draft Joint Project Agreement that are of special
interest are referred to in Section III of Annex III to this report. Special
conditions of disbursement of portions of the proposed Development Credit are:
(a) with respect to allocations for SOFISEDIT, the signing of the SOFISEDIT
Financing Agreement; (b) with respect to all allocations for SONEPI, the sign-
ing of the SONEPI Financing Agreement; and (c) with respect to allocations
for SONEPI other than for the performance audit, the approval by the Associa-
tion of the results of the audit. The satisfactory completion of the perfor-
mance audit for the remaining proceeds of the Credit allocated to SONEPI.
64.       In compliance with Section 3(ii) of Article III of the Articles
of Agreement of the Corporation, the Government of Senegal has been notified
of the proposed investment.                                                w
65.       Senegal has signed and ratified the ICSID Convention.  However,
there are no contractual arrangements between Senegal and a national of
another Contracting State which, in the context of this investment, might give
rise to an investment dispute.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and of the Association, and
that the proposed Investment would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Corporation.



- 23 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that:
(a) The Executive Directors of the Bank approve the proposed loan;
(b) the Executive Directors of the Association approve the proposed
Development Credit;
(c)  the Board of Directors of the Corporation approve the proposed
investment on substantially the terms outlined above; and
(d) the Board of Directors of the Corporation adopt the resolution
in the form attached to the package of Bank and Association draft
legal documents distributed separately.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
March 30, 1981



- 24 -                                        Annex 1
Page I
TABLE 8A
SENSGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEr,AL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (%,Fir;Fn AVFAr IES
LAND   E                                                                             -HOSAD So.   0.)  _ MOST RECFNT ESTIMATEI
TOTAL             196.2
AGRICULTURAL      81. n                                 MOST RECENT            L(7d INCOME             MIDDLF I Nr9MF
1960  jb    1970 /b FSTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH nF SAHAPA  AFPICA 50UTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   180.0       240.0      430.0                 260.0                    86h. O
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      121.0        139.0     181.0                  80.0                    699.4
POPULATION ASID VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       3.4          4.4       5.4
URBAN POFULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6          23. 7     24. 9                 I7.3                     28.9
POPU_ATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MIILLIONS)                        9.1
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                          24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPUtLATION IS REACHED                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M1.                       17.0         22.0      28.0                  27.'4                    61. 7
PER SQ. 1R1. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0         55.0      67.0                  82.6                    126.n
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLURE (PEPrrNT'-
0-14 YRS.                          44.0         42.9      44.3                  44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                          54.0         54.2      52. 8                 52. 2                    51. 6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2. 0         2.9       2. 9                  2.8                      2. 8
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2. 2         2.4       2.6                   2.7                      2. 7
URBAN                               3. 5         2.9       3.2                   6.8                      4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0         47.0      49.0                  47.4                     46. e
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0         23.0      22.0                  19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.0       3. 2                  3. 2                     3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          125.0         83.0     104.0                  91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    92.0        95.0       95.0                  90.2                     92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         64.0      64.0                  53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        20.0       19.0                  18.4                     15.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0         35.0      32.0                  27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0          40.0      42. 0                 45.3                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            93.0           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       37.0                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                ..           ..       68.0                 58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       23.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  28.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                  67.0
RURAL                                ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          22376.0     16673. 0   15704.0               30910.4                  14C08.2
POPULATTON PER NURSING PERSON      4110.0/c    2684.0    1608.0                 5793.2                   3279. 5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             840.0       810.0      900.0                1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                             281.0       356.0
RURAL                            2001.0      1171.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         22.2      26.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..          ,.        7.6
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                                ..          ..
LrRBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DiWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 25 -                                           Annex 1
Pase 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
- MOST RECENT EST1MATE)-f
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                27.0        43.0       47.0                 57.7                    61.7
MALE                 36.0        53.0       57.0                 74.2                    69.2
FE2ALE               17.0        33.0      37.0                  54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0        10.0       11.0                 10.0                    20.6
MALE                  4.0        15.0       16.0                 13.7                    29.2
FEMALE                2.0         6.0       7.0                   7. 1                   14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 23.0          9.0       10.0                  6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..        45.0       49.0                 45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                         34.0        29.0       22.0                 25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5. 6d       10.0      10.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         9.0       9.2                   3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.0        68.0      64.0                  31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       0.4                   1. 8
NEWl SPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULAT'ION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  6.0         5.0        7.0                  4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        0. 7                  ..                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1590.3      1911.8    2232.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  39.7        39.1      38.0                  33.5                    38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.6        79. 7      77.0                 80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.4         6.6       8.0                   8.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.6        44.3       42.8                 42.2                    38.8
MALE                                56.7        54.5       53.0                 55.1                    48.4
FEKALE                              36.8        34.3      32.8                  29.5                    29.4
ECONQIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1. 1       1. 1                 1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.81         ..e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62. 5/        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2/         ..2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9. 4e        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 138.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      82.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      194.0                107.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of darea and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1964;  /d African population only;  L Population.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 26 -                                                                             Annex 1
Page 3
DEFTNITIONSI OF SOCIAL. INIICAT0RS
No-es:  Althou.gh the data are dra-  Trm  souce  generally judged the mast authoritativeand reliable, Is should also  ha noted that they may eat beser
caciova.llycoyaralaI hecaust of she tack of stosdardtaed definitions  and -a-cpss ued bydifrn outiaitcleigthdt.Tedaa rest-
Iuls    sfltodsrb    res  fmgiue    nic te  rns   ad obarater- to etin ow.o dO"tferect  bet.e.. coutries.
ITo   r  rtrgop    r 1  coo same.cuntry.grou   of the  u -jes Icous tey and (2)a                       .cunty group nish so-oht high- oraerage It..e thas the country graup
of th,o sub)tot nt          acen-C _pt far "Cpta  Surplus Oill Esport-rs   gr-u  wher  'tttddle I-co.e harsh Aftica and Middle East" is chases  eae   of  trsger
haR  hOd  tonman   s.hn)                                                                    aoaastc  erTivcoh.-   oplatona-n'edIvsunetao   racirugthy
focal - vocal suot-n   orsnutsig lane               raadilan      d  aasyiis    ulfo    ee      eia    cola   nvr icy leosl
Agricuttrol - hulcato  ofagrioularal are  used teporaril  orporoaootiy          Ppaia rr  osn Pras-Populatias divided by masher  g prasiio
fo   oras,pat.05 erks  ndhichs   areo   r  o  Erfelo;1977 data,                         mae  t  femlj rd uat   uros  prat-Soul  --rac ,ad aesiars                       ea
f.r C-P~~~~~~~, P-,X   eIk'lg  .Iuesasco  oefeaitl hd--toal  uras  au  rral-Hopaatesltoal
car fEt CAPITA. nUSl) -  5Npe  caoaa Im'tou  asurrnt market pritoa, oai-                              ura,adrrl    lie    ytei   eprtn    ~se f hoapito1 bids
oulased  h  mama ocsaralosmthod n Wrl  auh   tusf977-c9 hoe is); S9N,                     availalle  En puhEin and prtvaso  goa.ra  as .d upeciali.d hesptta1 aed  Ie-
1971  ao  I19,Jca                                                                              hshblicaiastnte            HospitalI ear   eatnahitshmmts permaetly staffed
by asylease  oe physIcia            .  tetblsmet   providiug prisripelly c-toial
ENERGY CONSUMPrTION PERC lAITA  -.,.Iua   --npti-t of omercia1 rer.gy 1001                            rae   f _ t.not included    aura 1ospitai,  -aeve,Isld   helhad  edhoal
and Lignite   yerlu,   an             gas  od hydr-  ncerad geoherma  eIci-                         cem-ra sot pes-naent   staffed by o physicias (ht by a medira  sat1                 ae
arilo) is kilngr...c .f coa  equi-a1es yet -apita; 1960, 1970, and 1976                         sarse, midwife, etc.) shiob offer is-pettest ar                    dsesad provIde
dota                                                                                                limited rasge ON medical fa-ititos.    ,Partatistical p.urpse   arbas hspi-
tala  iodide. WHONs priscipa  geIr         _ad speotaisedh.pitala.  an  tsaoa
POPl'LATION .AND VIT01 STATISICIS                                                                     hospitals  loca  or cora  h-spitaIs asd mdirs ndmtrt1eses
fosaonp  loton,Old-car(silloo)  -As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and i978                    diso          rhsia   e   Tntel number ofadisoeno or diachargee
data.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tram  hosyitals disaded by the number of hada.
Irhn  riult rs  proostofcucl)    R Oti tof urbn to totalpp1         eln
diffor..os de,Il losft  of  .r.a. ares  oa  aff_ce  _op-baility at data                     HOUSINGc
amo _ousro; 1961, 1570, -od 1919 data.                                                  door... 5iee ofHousehol   proe choshl)-nsl,als    s   ma-.
foculastos Profoctions                                                     H~~~~~ h..oseh,odcoissfa group of tidividuels ott  share livig quarters
rocolusios in near lOll -luro   populaioc  rojccotsar  based os 198g                     snd uiI. mIn meals.  A boarderrldger may or say net be iucluded is
sot-    opa    boyh age and oro and shinny .. motlity and lo,t ill,y  roses..                  she house.hoid for statisticalpuos.
Proje_l_  paraoteco  foo  mortaliy rates  opleo s'iI,hre  icre-   attain                     verge camber Of yeruass Per roo   - ttm, urban,nad rural - Amergs  ss.
dog  lfe  onpeo..nny as Arth i..o.as..  w it h c-atey's per nspita  T  -nn                     her of Pferso Pa  y Ir coo, I   l   raa I         ualocpe            secaa
lae'1, cod femal  IfI  soeoan-y  tuai~lll g at 17.5 years.   Th   eu                            ollg.rs eiey.   Nell,- Isi  ey,d .von1-yepmadentmrnctares
--oc   cor :ortlic.o rate also taco three levels ausu...ne d-nilne En                          ucope pa ts.
forsa Ity  -ccdimg toi .oc.. leve  u-d   patfmlylanoing performanc..                       Acs.o..nloin(ecn   fdoligl                             cti  uba   a   ua 
techuouny i  the  asigned. one of these nie          minatiocs of mortality             Io.o..risal dsollisgs etch eleotricity  sivinig quartets asperoestag
u-   fertilityted   for projection  .purpse.                                                   of  tac1  u_bn, eadraral dwellingsI respectively.
she btith  rate inaSall tc she deat.h rate, adas   the ag   triuc    o                    IEDUATION
consonuuo  h   Iu acieved only after fertility  rates decilne I0n                    jsedErlmetsto
'ho .elc       s ....... ei. of-oit met  eyroductioo rate, shin  eachIaeseratia                 est   coo           aa,mteadfml    Gross total, male and femal
of amoarylceaisslt  nuoir.Thestatoosy  ppultio   mie ws                              eralet of all  g-a at the primary l.eve   spersagsorseti-e
estimated os she hatis of the projeotd cha..aotrlatics  of the populato 1primary school-age  popolasio..s; uarmaly iJ-ladee  hildres aged 6-1l
Icct  hoar 2001, and the race of d_rise of Iotiliy eat  to reIplace                            years hut adjusted for dIffe t lenghs of primay edasti; fop
soot lee.cucisec    nora    dctta                                                                                                          .. eoIIIess may emceed  lfpoece..t
IrrsaIonr    ouaEni   ecbd- The year whe t octlon..ry  .poylaslot                                   sine sae PuPils ar  bolos or  bav  the official school age.
sta-  has hems reahed.                                                                         Secndryscuol-  ocl,maeand _femal  - Campated as abase; seceda
Populaciat lonsicy                                                     eduoafi ar requ ~~~Ice  a  Eea.sc fai  Year  of approved prImar  isnII_tian;
rPs us. Am. - Mid-year population Per square kilo..eer  1110 he-t....) of                           provde  general,_occaional, or teacher trainiagiatctis   for pupth
tota  are.                                                                                       usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; --rpepndeuc c-              ra  are g...e.sly
Prevs.An   glcluallu  - Composed as above for  grcutuallad                                          ...cuded
arty.                                                                                          foaioa  e-eaIleet (percent of  -eoadory  - Vl.o.tiosa  iastitaeiOsa
Poolusoc  ue   trutur   (ercean) -nChldre,n  il-lA  year), oo-king-ags  (ll-                  isld    ehict   mutli, or oce   rgaawic   prs                                 re-P
hi fers),  nd reIred   61   er       vo   mprstgso    i-year papa-                          dearlyoru  departments  f                 ,scnaYin itia
lariat; 1060, 1971,..ad 1979 data.Pua-ece rai -prar.adscsrv-Ttlndeteroedh
Goaaso    .r.th hate frerr_rnsl - .tota  - dAu...  groucth raes- of total mid-prmyenscodylvls iiedbmahsoferer1tte
year popolati... for 1950-hi, 1960-70, and 197E-78.                                                 corresponding Ieveim..
Pnpclcioo  root   Hate(peoeoc)   arhe- Ann-Iu geUth totes of ura Obdl.ierc.aa   eret -pliterte  adula  fable no read  sad= write)
Eutlss  or  911hO.196-70, end I97-78-                                                       et    ecsae   fttlad   P.plno    ge   5yas                              vr
trdelc - huts ~(ye  thb.isad; - Aosa. Ive-  hirchs Per tb-o..aod of mid-year
pnpmlactiou;  96,1970, and 1976 data.                                                         OagiMsTrIOl
Crud  Tech  ute(pe  shou..uod) - Ana.. 1deaths Pee ch..a. ad of mid-yea-ossa    ss(e   husdeelsol-Pue Pgee oars ronprise  mTat
popolacina; 1960, 1970, and 1979 daa                                                               ar   ettg  los  ha  eih    euas aiuda anbula..s.. hearsesnsd
ircu   Rrcdu -ln   at -avrge  number cf dagtesaomnsllha  in                                         militar 'vhioles.t.
P    ..i 'luo -Acopso-s   Annul (th ....ands) - Annual.. nuber of acceyt...                   tensd   ccesroi  canruud in yrars she. regiatestiun Of radio  seW
of hitch-c--ro   devices  -nder aapi-e  of -ati-ta  family ple..unin   progrm                    -u  En  effc;  .ava far recent years ma y non he coparable sin.e mast
Focusl  Pla..nIo--I-s-er  (rectr-  of marrted o"Iel) -P Pe..tg   of married                         "custrieffabnliled  1 icE_stog
aoe  of .tald-beriog cge (115-04 yearn) oh. our hirI-c_nOr_1devicesI tFT ecevr   ottosn                                            uatc -I'rciesfrbodatt
all surried ....e  .n saoa goe grop.                                                              enslpbiprthuad ouain; e_cI Inmo                                 eame  TVreiss
MIR                                                                 in       tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocucies and ic years whetrginana    f TV sactwa  is effec.
fLOED _011 tNJITION                                                                                                                   --I,I~,,.iS
Indea  of Food yood-oiae  cot~ Captia  )697l_         2   - Inden of per oaiOa a.-.sI                ia  of "dully  eneealI interest m          .Ppe, deInd aIapri i-a  pub-
productiono   l   od          ecls   rraducliot  nclud-s seed and teed mod                        icot.oc devotedprmil  to  Esading geser.  nes.  I  is Ic.a.idered
enroeovlc   fAsfoduple avibe I Pnt' cnTry  per. Oa pitaI t. eo  FNRCI
Per duy.  AvaIlable supplies sonpris  domecio praduotios, impart  les                        ToalIn -ryac   (rhaus..nds) - fEasaml-aly active peres,icld.
_aoi,      hanges Eu stock.  Nte  .uPp le   a  ae  nmlfe,  edamd force  and u.emPlayedb ha  .ealuding hous.ewives,  tdeets.  eta.
;unitsadit foo  procesice, mod losses in dtIteitbutio_.Rhqotre-                      Defisisiave  is sar.i out  cooTrie  are  -  compareble; 1960, 1971 mmd
_otsser iealtacd by FAC b-sd an physilgiral seeds for norma  a-ti-                             1978 data.
nisy and health cooideciag roiro-netel temperatue, body  -ilghts, age                        Pesa.le  (percnt) - Foma1 Iahor force as .... eetgm  of total labor ferns.
and se  dis-ihu-ion of Poynlat ion, and allowing 1  perc_ent for waste at                                                L.'nue(eres     lao   force Is farmtag, faretry    atigad
houehod len1; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977  aa                                                   fishiog as prcestage of ntatl laborfre   19h0, 19Tl aud 1978 data.
for  cyttasuopv  ofprotin   ramsPer day) - Pro nes  -otesn of per oaPita.            sunv(pret    Labor foree is  isug  cst tiau.  menufaetscit
urnsuply of food par day.  Met supl  of food is defitod us above-, he                         d  alcriiy    ster and gas soPere.            g    fnsllbrfre    M
qut_eme_s  for all _ utIss eatubl isbod by U10A pravJde for mimim                              1970 and 1979 data.f  ..  Ib     .I                                             90
alwoeohEgr_s of  _era  prst.i e pe  day ad 21 grams ofanimal  ae                   Parsicipacios, hRe  (p.eret)-toa,ml.adfae- Partiripatiem  ec
plecte,of uhich 10 geaa uhosld he asnall proteto.  These stand-                       aciiystsus   upnda  ttl    ae   udfml   ao  fetus  -5
aruae   I      tr hat those of 75 gren  cf to tal prI.e. an nd 23 gras  afprcsge ofenlmaeadeaepputi                                                   talagr           att ly
animol prt.ein  as Inave-ag   for the woold;,.prap..ad by FAO is the Third                     1960. 1970, eud 1975 dots.  These . are .11Pm   paopat ins rTes r-fletisig
World yicd Sosory; 1961-65, 1970esad 1977 dt.                                                  a ge-soc.tructar  of the PopulaItIo, and lose time freud.  01 few esti-
Por capita  noorein  sapols iron  animal and  eulse ~~~~~- protein  supyly of fend de-  mates ace from  catiaselaIuotes
ri,ed from  antisas and Pulses in u-m  per da; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 daaDfaamclprade...y Ratio - Ratio  of populatlar under 15 sud g5 aud ever
Chil   ue    -)soth              ae(e  caad) -anuldeaths Per thu  mad isn                            otettllbrfee
age group  I-C   er,n  chilEdrois this age group; fur mastd d..elpisg cou-
srioa dataIdeived fo    ifeI sIba;19 60,170sd 1977 data                                      INI.ME DlISTRIBTION
Life  Eapeosuoc  as airth  (yers   A-Ierge nuber nf yerI. of life  remaing                          o   ouhls
abit;1960, 1970 aud 1976 dasa.
InetTralrRate  Ine  ~thousan d) - anuoul deaths of infants under ate yea                POVERTY TARGETf GROUyS
luber ofpeo,ple  (total, urban, ssd rura) with ..a.ensbi aree 111lto mafe                         sutritio...lyodequate  diet Plus  .. esenta1 nes-fand reqsice-mt  is ant
cae upy(includes traaced eurfacewasers  or unteatdI ht amoastastnted                      affardable.
catersuch  s tha  fro   protected breho,ea  spriags, a-d sanitary osEsi as               estimated  helastie" r Iets  Esc..e LemI (US$lP retaPita) -uban  andrua-
teosagso  sIr IeP Ic in  Papltia.    Is n   urbaIn area a public                         hral. relative  poverty illese leve  is as-tbtrd of.averag  pPI  caPita
toscloo  atasdput located so  mare then l0t meters feosu.hu..  maI             b            pesoa  Eucmeatthe casOtry.  Urban level is derived fees the rural
noudee   n  en.wci.raosheaoeeofcmihue                                     Yaa    area             leve  eith adjuaten  fa   igher -st of living  is urban aras
reasuno. ll  acces  -u1d imply that she h..eafe orembers of the household                       pet         ..te    1osaatlo   itles Absolute  Peverty  luo-m   Level  feecem t)-  lrba.
dc  -n  hose To  .p.ud a diuprapocttiosace  pest of the day Es fetchisi the                       end rural - Percnt ofpapalatia  (urbem  a.d-rurl) w-hoc  "bouepear".
rural   N-- ne  of pepe(tnl    brhas  as  rural  eermd by  acm
dIsposal as pe--ngea nf these respectIve popul.eins.  tsesds Eosu_ic as   -iscis  Oas                                                                             te
pasa  maY imlude the.  _alletiaa  and disposal ,  teb  or sith-u  trea.mem,                                                 tosunl  Analysis aad Projertiems Vsparrmst
.f b-.   ..6  -t  _.t.I by   y.t-. er the ...  f                                                               Ot~~~~~~~~~~ircber 1960
Pit pravisa and atil-r insealleItioss.



1974    195    1976 1971    198    1979 1980    191    1992 1993    194    1985990      197-75    195-I9    199-197195-99 171    j9                            9 1973    1959 199
A.  NATIONA~L _ACC074'N_TS
(tobillions of 1971 CPAF)33                                                                                                  34      36      49           3        2_            ,            9          o-    0.             9   q       146
1.  GO?                         ~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~257    277    297    299  289  303    287    711      323    13        4        6       3         2          23          30          39100 10.7  10.1.0                      1 j63   -14.9
GDP                           ~ ~~~~6 -2     -9        -         5      .3      -6     -lo      T      -I1      .13     -15     -20        ---.                                                               0.O63           -.
2.  TT  dj..t-.t ~ ~             263     275   .288       299    270      300      281     301     315     324      335     347     419       2.7         2.2         2.5         3.8          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
3.  GDY                                      8        86     10      11      11       12       99     18      10       12.15           19       44       1.2         9.8        -0.8         3.9           33.2   31.3    61.7    34.3   34.4
4.      ( ...pNrto                     68       77      95     101       73      94      69      92      96      101     106     112     147       4.7         2.2         4.9         5.62.                  280      80      3.3     31
5.  ELopta  te.8S                            74       75      86     101      74       81      63      82      88       90      93      97     127       4.0         1.9         3.0  .      5.5           25.9    27.3  '27.Q    21.9    50.3
6.   Exp-ts, TT odi.-1                               -.      1.       1       3       4       -36     .26     -22      -22     -22     -21     .17        -           -           -           -              7.3     4.0    14.7      6.1    4.1
.  Consumgp  tio                            225     243    257    266        265    298       274     280     288     296       0      31      36        1.          1.7         .0.         3.2           91.0   88.4   99.3    90.2    97.6
9.  Gron-lnetslOn                            49      43       s0      47      41       46      43      46      49       St      53      53      69       1.8         1.S.0 461.                                     156      5.      15.9    16.5
10.  Priont   lnot,0                           0      15       18      1        4      1        6       l        8      1        8       19      23     .3.1         0.0         4.0         3.9             6.9     5.5      5.      5.      5.
11.  PublIc IrnestOert  18   19      21      21      22      23       23     ~~~     ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~25  27  29  31  32    42       7.9         4.9         5.7         5.6            9.7     6.9      7.7     9.2    10.0
I2.  CIono.  1n--lnrb                         1.1       9      11       7       5        8a      A       4       4        4       4       4       4        -           -           -9                        3.9    31.6      2.7      9.2    12.0
25.  yl,.o.-a,.    ~      ¶.a1.               3        2       1       3                                21      27      28      31      34       52      3.8       -50.0        60.0         8.8.                   1.6      0?       98      24
II   110,1  ~~   11100, It oIl.   6,1~    15       15       1%     II.19                    76       37      14      36      19      -in      2.4       .27.7        27.7         8.3            12.     12.0      3.0    11.2    13.9
Is  ~ ~ ~   ~~    91           1501   101111~~~-o                                       lilt)0711  Al? 21?    11    3571    394it   4~.l1   5101    9%2-    20.8  6.9  12.8    13.3                      -       -       -        -
I. . .n.,t     '             .0'      00     !r.      l~~~~I   ,~~l11    I1~~    1~ I    I'S   0,0    I5.~~~   .10       /0          2.1         )I)         2.~C'M       200.0   200.0 1000 .0   100.0  100.00
2. ~~~~~~~ ore                SI      2?~~~~~~~14      t.o 10 20       01               11 8    09      0        5      lIlt    124       4.0         3.0         3.11       8.4            21.0    28:6    26.7    27.6    28.2
3.  InutI 0                                          6         9      72      64      7        7       74      8        4      89      194     123       4.3         2.3         5.0         3.5           21.9    21.6    23,5    26.0   28.0
4.  PejnI   Ieo s111    113                                 119      120     108     118O     116     119     120     124      128     133     150       0.2         1.1         7.0         2.5           45.31   39.6    38.9   36.7    34.2
5.  Poblic Sennle-                           27      28      30       33      73      34      34       34      33      35       35      35      42      -0.9         3.0         0.5         3.5           11.,    102    11.2       9.7      9.6
C. p91CEs INDlICt.S (1971 100)
1.  tup-rt Pei... (goods only)             221      192     167    207       21171    2214   2738    253      299     304     320     377    490        17.7         2.7         9.9         5.4
2.  1nnn lt ion                             194     198     195    209       21      227     277      301     329     356     385    417       613      18.6         3.5        10.7         8.0
3.   ersn-  o?flT`rade                      114      97      86      199     103      94      86       84      88      85      83       910     80      -0.8        -0.8        -0.7        -2.3
4.  CD'1 Ifato                              1.32    147     154     159      169     174     190    207       226     246     268     292      450      10.1         4.3         9.0         9.0
5.  Consume"Pr L...e                        138     181     183    204       211     233     268      295     324     359     398     441      736      16.0         6.5        11.2        10.9
6. FudIuotos0Pio                            138     166     1.67    18O      195     208     229      252     27?    305      333      368     593      13.5         3.8        10.0        10.0
7.foI.  Ot   CAPapr 001                  240.5  214.3  239        245.7  225.6  212.7  207.1  007.1  207.1  207.1  207.1  207.1  207.1                  -           -           -           -r.
-4~~~~~~~.
D..  SELZ   D  INDICATOPS                      1960165  1965/70  1970/75  1975/99 1980/84  1985/89                                                                     E.  1.AOR1 FORCR  (1971)                     Tnsu              Pero...t
1.  I00W                                      21.    8.1       4,.7      9.8      3.9      13.9                                                                        1. Agri-Iltore                             812              49.6
2.  An,.Nt.1.Snolnfa tate                    It       9.4      13.4      8.8      9.3      12.5                                                                        2. mIing-                                     2               0.2
3.   1.-  at.      _Lnig      6/             15      18.2     14.3  -103.8       41.0      23.0                                                                        3. lI.0..f-rt-org                            69               5.90
4.  Fiord 1--o.a.set 09P                     22      12.5      17.1     12.9    13.8       14.4                                                                         4. P.blir Oltilitlos                        463.
S.  lopnr%E       't~ty                      .0      -0.1       0.0      2.49     0.S09                                                                                  . Conatro.Ctlos                            17               i.5
6.Isp-ratD                                  2d      99       32.-9    37.4    33         3'2.6                                                                        6. P,ieate S.r-L...                        115               9.8
I7.  foPorta/GOP                             26       24.9     27.4      28.8    25.8       27.9                                                                         7. P. blnS SerIce.                         1277             10.9
8.  lRenu_-   Gap/GO?P-                              -5.0     -5.5      -8.6    -8.1       -4.7                                                                        B. Other                                    _24              2.1.
Total                                 1170             513.0
F.  PI79LIC  FINANlCOE____________                                                                                                                                   rnt    ae    75Sae   nr.r.tGP(.
(in billioa of nUrrort CAf                 __           Acta.           Etlsta.a                        pOolrctloon  I/                                 077 -75       77-I       p38h6 r7.               Y7    iy7 .-r       5 GDP  M
and fiaol year-) 9'174                               F7       Fy7       FY7_Fy8             Y9      FY0        (8      Fy81
1.  0..dot MoRO-ts                             55.4      77.3     87.2    104.8    110.1    126.7    154.2   161.7   28990                               13L6          1L.8        15     1.3     1     7.620.  21.9      22.6      2903
2.  C.re,   Fop -(-o. interest)                48.9      65.      80.2      iLl      12..   1D/" A     121.4   1201I 267n k..fl                                                                7       1        ?_I_ 4    _2__2_
3.  3mdi  100. bfore Debt Seroica                6.5     11.5       7.0     18.5      12.5     21.8      32.8    43.6      87.0                             -                                  17       31        4.5       0.1        .
72  03   48      10.2       __       __ 20.5            5.8--                                                                       23        3.2      5.5       5.7       8.1
P. oO. S.,  before Debt S.-I.o.              13.7      11.8     11.8      28.7     13.0      24.6    T0. 7      MA.    87 0
6.  Debt, See, c                                 2.5      40        87       9.7      12.5     19.7      30.0     35.4     A46.9                          1.Ll         3laz                    I  10    111       40        5.6       4.
t.lnarb.1. ...oo.                         'l'        '. ~       .1    1if-       0.5       49       0.7      52.0     40.1                                       Iia                      1.3 9LL            LI       L
8.  Fbllc Ineesteota IO/                     -d9.      3u                           ZT      &!.T       W. T     785      1WMT.3                                      5.           1.                   9.4    16.3       no.'      as.,
9.  Percentage of sEl  fiocu-log (1)            38.4     22.3       7.7    41.8        1.1      9.7       1.2     17.       28.6
10.  Debt S rIc   f o parce.c.ge of               4.3      5.2      10.0      9.3      11.3     15.3      19.5     2.64      16.2
1/ These proj.otieos  a.neoo   thaot Ger       ota  tabilltatteo, plar will 6. Iellemented.                                                                                          01th lS/    Usodtrop
2/ Coot of limb9g fad.. of traditional                                                                                                                             ry   'fohltienon hto9 D8akar.na
3/   Calculated fto.. u-1u.a Lo ruoret prI... or  -oeta.t prLcos adjusted for chasass is caerm   of treds.                                                                                                             crov inNYabr  s  oemltc50*I
Ai   Adjusted for toes.  f t-ad. whore appropriate.                                                                                                         my redmos  Iw  Det.ob,r  9. l    .6o  _,of. goaIa
1/ Cnle-lore,  no ...e  y-sr  -o-n8  of CD? sod tla tine yora. a- of flood  Io"orst. to I   nonstant price..                                            by ste. U45  40114o.                      Pocsfo   9
El Calulat.d onthree years a--rag-s  onr th*'ba.. yeats Lo current prics..
7/   C.leoloted ochtras years aveassas for th* bass yearn io c,oletnet prices.
Vt    Fi-rn1 years from Jualy I to J... 30.
VI   I-rlodesa -Ioga iron St.bLissntiosa Fund aod public enterprises.
lq/   ?.blic t-vetesonto as defined by tha Xinietry of PI-ng;0~  rmtnary tn the nsatin.l aancosnte d.f.ntiot..a these
ftg--o  include the full coests of projects In silsad 0starpri.e. in wohich Onerneant ta6a a major financiL4  rCa-
po.. bbilit y, project ceponents that de not rapreseot f ixad capital formatIon. reeasrch ptojoets end  oem
mil tary oM9AndiLWtn..



-28 -
AIUIEXi
Page 5
SIBCAL - ALAICE OrFPAWIKETS AMD IXiINUL ASSISTANCE
(millions of current US$)
Actual*                        latimetap                                            Projlections
1974    1975    1976    1977           1978         1979          1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1990
A.  StiS{NRY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exporcs, ise. NSF                            602     693      698     853            691         884           841      1,190      1,396      1,551      1,739      1,962      3,778
Imports, inc. BP-S                          -691   .793    -852    -979          41,030      -1,357          1,318    -1,366    -1,742       -1,928    -2,148    -2,394    -4,270
Resource Balance                             -89   -100    -154    -126             -339        -473          -477       -376       .34         -377       -409       -432       -492
Factor Services  (ret)                       -48    -55       -83   --13            --27         -56           --74      .-73        -76         -83        -92       -103      -161
N.t investmet in-,me                     -26      -37     -20      -24           --28        -38             4         -38       -41         -42        -44        -45        -70
Interest on p.bli. debt                  -14      -19     -18      -21           .29          44-49                   -49        -48         .47        -45        -45        -51
Other interest                              2      -3      -1       -4            -4         -11            -20        -25       -28         -36        -47        -59        -98
Worker.' remittance..                     -20      -6       17      1o             15          17            19         20        21          23         25         27          33
Other                                      10      10       14      18             19          20            22         19         20          19         19         19        25
Current Trsnsfers (net)                       64      67       66       71            97          93           140        106        114         123        133        143        210
Current Accen..t Balance                     -73     -88      -96     -68           -269        -436          -411       -343       -308        -337      -368        -392      -443
Private Capital (net)                         -5       12      16       26            36          42            4          51         57          62         69         77        136
Capital Grants                                19      22       23       24            29          33            35         36         38          39         40         42         54
Public M - T Loans (net)                      60       56      60       56           135         136           236 hA4   145 /17  179            214       -265        281        267
Disbur.ements                             80       76      84       92           204         214           342        249        277         325        402        457        641
Repaymsents                              -20      -20     -24      -36           -69         -78          -106       -104        .98        -111       -137       -176       -374
Short-term.Capital (net) 1/                   23      10       -      -38            -39          36            50 41   -50AZ         -           -          -          -          -
Capitln.e.i    2/                            -31     -22      -13      -9             24.L!7      70 /II        40 j)j   71 hI8    6 Li           -          -          -          -
Increase in Reserves   +)-7                          -10      -10      -9            -84       -119             -4        -90        -28         -22          6          8        14
Level of Fereign Assets  (end yr.)           -"      -        7"      IT          "'_T7         TTIm         -1"       '-Im      "-T=         '*_m       "T=                   '
8.  L0OAN CO84lITLNTS                              70     135     127      215           357         149           282~      2?68        259         373        444        491        678
IBiD                                          .3       7       26      20~            11           7            l.o        14         30         64         51         48         63
IDA                                            -      25       11       -             26          25            72         13         25          25        28         31         42
OPEC F.nds                                     -       4        -       3              5                         a.          9        10          11         13         14        15
Other Inte rnatio-l In-tit.tionss             10       6       12      21             28 La       4612          14         22        20           23        25         26         31
France                                        16      13       27      28             27          25           101         36         40         44         48         53         59
Germany                                       17        3       5      .4              2          16            15         17         17          19         19        22         25
Canada                                         -       a        4       5             -           -              2          2          2           2          2          2        -3
OPEC Co...tries                                9       -        4       -             38 /9        6            -               -                 -         -          -          -
Other Bilateral                                4 /321 14    -          12 /6          20 &q       13 /13        20         20        23          25         27         30         33
OM'S (Diam s.al)                               -        -       -        -            -           -             I         113 /16    --                                 --
Suppliers                                      3       1       10      22             10           3            10         15        20          30         30         30         38
Financial Institstions and                     B      47       28     100             190          6            -           7        72         130        201        235        369
Private Backs
C.  LOAN TERMS
Interest (7)4.7                                      4.8     6.1      7.6             6.9         3.9           5.3       4.4        5.8         6.5        6.5        6.5        6.7
Grace (years)                               6.3      6.5     5.6      3.6             3.7        6.4            6.6        6.5       4.6         4.1        3.6        3.6        3.2
Maturity (years)                            27.5   23.4   20.1    12.7               13.7        23.7          26.5       30.1       21.1       18.8       17.2       16.9       15.8
Grant Element (7.1                          39.0   40.0   28.2    13.6              18.9        43.9           41.4      53.4       37.3        29.7       27.2       26.9       24.6
Debt Service Ratin(.)                        5.4     5.3     5.5      6.4           13.6         13.7          18.0       12.7      10.4        10.5       11.3       12.6       13.0
Debt Seri-e Ratio   (including                 -        -    5.6      6.6            15.1        15.8          19.5       15.5      13.3        17.6       13.3       14.5       13.8
I1lE funds)
Li Includes errors and omissions, (1900/dl figures refer to a ahort-term 0PEr loan).
/2 Include. SCABEX, SDR allocation. and differmeces between public eapitsl inflows
as r-crdrd by the C-stra1 Bank and by the IBRID debt report.                                                                          Preliminary Information on the I980fs!
L3   $4 aillion from U.S.A.                                                                                                                groundnut crop, received in November,
/4   Includes $17.4 million from Spain and $3.5 fine  Denmark.                                                                             is pesaimiatic and, if conflm~ed, nmy
15   Iocludes $14 million Third Window Ponds,                                                                                               reduce our October 1980 export utrojections
/6  .S. Aid                                                                                                                              for 1981 by acme US$150 million.
Q    STABEX $24 million.
/8 locl.den $17.6 mtllion IMF Trust FPonds.
1.9   $37 million from Saudi Arabia and $1 ,illion from Abu Dhabi.
/10  SpaIn.
/11 Includes STABEX $64 million and SDR all-otion 96 million.
/12 I1-lodes $13.4 million IMP Trust Fund, $19.6 million African Development Bank, and
$12.8 million European In-erse-nt Bank.
/13 Includes $12.8 million from Japan and $2 million from the United Kingdom.
/14  Includes eceptional aid:  TVA  $15 million; Franca 967.6 million, and STABEX
advanc: from France $36.2 millio..
/1 nlclude  STABEX $34.8 million and SDR allocation  $6 million.
/16  An estimated share of 757. in the $150 million coat of the Diana Dam:  France 952 million;
Saudi Arabia $37 millIon; Kuwa it $35 million; and African Development Bask $26 million.
/17 Sn-lodieg es-ptio... aIid icon IBKD $50 million and IDA 915 million. Also including gapfills from 1981 on.
/18 Including STABEX $65.2 million ($101.4 million STABEX less repayment of STASFX advance from Prance
$36.2 million) and SDR $5.8 million.
/19  SDR allocation $6 million.                                                                                                                                                       October 1980



Table 1:1:  ECP0RT DETITL
Actuals                                                Estimates                                           Projections
1974       1975        1976        1977        1978'       1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        194         1985        1990
A. CONSTANT 1971 PRICES
(tmillions of CFAF)
1. Gr_undnut products                            lb,118      27,00b     40,620      37,535      10,398      21,276       7,802      28,265*    28,765        29,282     29,809       30,346     3
2. Pnospnates                                     5,9,2       4,757       5,526       5,390      5,054       5,709       5,o.DO      5,831       6,071        6,234      6,483        6,74,      7.969
3. Petroleum proaucta                             2,207      2,221        1,651       s,000      3,178          ,27s     2,584       2,71.       2,849        2,991       3,l14       3,298      4.209
4. Fish and fish products                         7,230       7,709       8,928     12,600      12,660      13,601      14,008      14,778      15,517       16,448     17,559       18,831     24.960
5. Other goods                                   1t0902       9.257      12.84       15 303     12.829      12 525      13 447      14.321      15.252       16.243      17.380      18 94:p    28.354
6. Total gcods                                   42,469      51,750     69,569       73,834     44,119      56,386      43,491      65,899      61,400       71,198      74,414      78,162     98.669
7. Adjustrents on custom statistics /i            3,269       4,388       3,510       5,25b      4,4'5       4,355       4,099       4,102       4,307        4,566      4,839        5,130      6.733
8. Non-tactor 9,rvices                           22.813      20.574      22.709      21 788     24,169      23.357      21.402      22.00       23 500       24.910     26.903       29.055     41.898
Total Export,                                68.551      76.712      95,,'88    100,878      72.743      84.098      68.992      92.401      96 207    100 674    106. ls        11Z,347    147-300
S.  PRICt INDICtS (19/1 - 100)
1. Groundnut products                             210.8       145.0       158.4      211.0       220.0       19o.0       175.o       22L.3       276.8      279.6        282.4        285.2      413.3
2. Pnosphates                                     419.1       467.2       306.1      278.0       277.0       257.5       301.2       334.5       363.0       395.7       432.5        473.3      622.5
3. Per,ol.lun p,ouu.t.                            234.2       312.8       321.9      427.0       428.0       458.0       b19.2       7.8.8       808.2      884.8        968.3    1,061.9    1 828.8
4. Fisn and fish productS                          99.2        94.2       126.0       134.0      143.0       155.9       169.9       181.8        194.5     208.1        222.7        238.3      334.2
5. Other goods L2                                 206.8       241.4       140.9       189.5      206.6       225.1       245.4       262.6        280.9      300.6        321.7       344.2      482 8
6. Tot.l _oods                                    221.2       191.5       167.0       207.1      216.9       214.2        2J,8.0     252.7       288.8       303.5        319.5       377.2      480.3
7. Ad;stments and NFS                             194.3       198.3      193.7       209.J       211.0       227.3       276.6       301.1       328.8      356.3         385.4      417.3       613.4
Tots'. Ex,ports                               211.0       193.7       174.0       207.7       214.6       218.6       252.3       266.6       300.4      302.5        309.2        361.6      530.9
C.  CURREINT VALUES
(millions ot CFAP)
1. Groundnuit products                          33,977      40,318      64,342      79.200      23,499      41,701      13,700      62,531      79,620      81,874      84,182      86,547       137.1 ~
2. Pnospnates                                   24,946      22,225      16,914      15,014      14,000      14,701      17,018      19,504      21,843      24,668      28,041      31,913        49.5
3. Petroleum ,roducts                            5,309       6,;48       5,316      12,800      13,602      14,999      16,000      20,045      23,024      26,467      30,419      35,021        76.9.
4. Fish and fish products                         7,172       7,262      11,2'0      16,900     18,104      21,200      23,799      26,865      30,183       34,233      39,194      44,873       83.4
5. Other goods                                  22.569      22.348      18.103      29.006      26 499      28,199      33.000      37,605      42.853      48 833      55.909      65 207 1.36.9
6. Total goods                                  93,973      99,101    115,925    152,920        95,704    120,800    103,517    166,550    197,523    216,075    237,745    263,561              483.8
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /3           6,362       8,701       6,799      11,000       9,401       9,901      11,339      12,353      14,164      16,268      18,649      21,407        41.3
8. Non-tactor services                          44.325      40.799      43.987      45.600      50.999      54.101      59.204      67.457      77.280      88,763    103,671    121 247         257.0
Total Exoorts                       ,        144.660    148.601    166j 711    209.520    156.104    183,802    174,060    246,360    288.967    321.106    360.065    406.215                 782.1
D. CLIIRE.NT VALUES
(millions of US dollars)
1. Groundnut products                            141.3       188.1       269.2       322.4       104.1       196.0        66.2       302.0*      384.6      395.4        406.6       418.0       662.2
2. Phosphates                                    103.7      .103.7        70.8        61.1        62.1        69.1        82.2        94.2       105.5      119.1        135.4        154.1      239.2
3. Petroleum Products                             22.1         32.4       22.2        52.1        60.3        70.5        77.3        96.8       111.2      127.8        146.9       169.1       371.8
4. Fish and fish prooucts                         29.8         33.9       47.1        68.8        80.2        99.7       114.9       129.8       145.8      165.3        189.3       216.7       402.9
5. Other gooos                                    93.9       104.3        75.8       118.1       117.4       132.6       159.4       181.6       206.9      235.9        2?0.0        314.9      661.1
6. Total zoods                                   390.8       462.4       485.1       622.5       424.1       5b7.9       500.0       804.4       954.0   1,043.5       1,148.2    1,272.8    2 337.2
7. Adjustments on custom statistics L             26.4        40.6        28.5        44.8        41.7        46.5        54.8        59.7        68.4       78.6         90.1       103.4       199.6
8. Non-tactor services                           184.3       190.4       184.1       185.6       226.0       249.6       285.9       aa5.,       373.3      428.7        500.7        585.6    1 241.5
Total Exports                                 601.5       693.4       697.7       852.9                  864.0        840.7    1.189.9    1.395.7            1.709. 0             96.    3 778.3
(Exchange rate)                              (240.50)   (214.32)   (238.98)   (245.67)  (225.64)    (212.72)    (207.06)   (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)    (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)
I/  Adjustments are related to:  (i) the timing of transactions;                             '       *           Information on the 1980/81 groandnut crop, received in
(ii) under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;                                              November  is OCstimlctiC and, if confirmed, may reduce our October
(iii) stock movements in bonded ware&nuses; and
(iv) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).                                                       1980 exp3rt projea ions for 1981 by aome US$150 million.
2/ Calculated as residuals.
3/ Irport price index.



TABLE 1.2 IMPORT DETAIL
Actuals                        Estimates                                              Pro jections
1974      1975      1976       1 977     1978       1979      1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985       1990-
A. CONSTANT PRICES (c.i.f.)
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                              17,139    13,063    18,403    19,842    21,115    24,666    21,394    21,202    19,800    18,546    18,138    17,797    18,200
Petrole-m                                4,715      4,497     4,668      5,291     4,988      5,690     7,154      7,163     7,521      7,897     8,292      8,707    11,112
Interm,diate goods                      13,644    18,809    23,464    24,213    23,350    24,575    17,741    23,500    24,675    25,909    27,204    28,564    37,154
Other .onsumer goods                     9,826    12,451    16,621    21,620    18,500    21,576    14,86n    16,123    16,445    16,774    17,110    17,452    19,841
Equipment goods                         16, 118    14.022    15 738    18.649    14,600    19 427    15154          981    17828    18     7      9.790    20 558   25 974
Total Foods                             61,442    62,842    78,894    89,615    82,553    95,934    76,309    84,969    86,270    87,910    90,534    93,079   112,281
Adjustments oi: custom statistics /1    14,616    10,593    10,866    11,181    11,800    12,751        9,721      9,217     9, 770    10,356    10,978    11,636    15,572
Non-factor services                        9408    12.338    14 608    14 143    15,830    16.451    12.623    13 498    13 633    13 769    13,907    14 046    16_280
Total Imports                         85466    85,773   104 368   114 939   110,183   125.136    98,653   107 684   109.673   112 035   115.419   118 761
B. PRICE INDICES (1971: 100)
Foodstuffs                               236.3      224.9     186.1      189.5     191.8      171.9     209.4     228.3      254.2     271.8      290.9      312.2    408.8
Petroleum                                329.3      330.0     404.8      442.0     417.0      513.2     698.9     837.6      918.0   1,006.8   1,103.8   1,211.9   1 951.8
Intermediate goods                       177.2      182.8     185.4      200.0     200.0      223.4    243.5      260.6      278.8     298.3      319.2      341.5    479.0
Other consumer goods                     177.1      182.8     185.4      200.0     200.0      223.4     24J.5     260.6      278.8      298.3     319.2      341.5     504.0
Equipment goods                          135.2      166.4     167.9      200.0     200.0      223.4    243.5      260.6      278.8     298.3      319.2      341.5    47ZJQ
T. *_al Goods /2                       194.3      198.3     195.1      209.3     211.0      227.3     276.6     30.1.      328.9     356.4      385.4      417.3     63
C. CURRENT VALUES
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                              40,502    29,313    34,248    37,597    40,499    42,401    44,799    48,404    50,322    50,408    52,763    55,562    74,402
Petroleum                               15,528    14j'840    18,897    23,390    20,800    29,201    49,999    59,997    69,044    79,509    91,528   105,516   216,S85
Intermediate goods                      24,176    34,375    43,502    48,426    46,700    54,901    43,200    61,230    68,791    77,287    86,832    97,556   177,972
Other consumer goods                    17,j88   22,756    30,816    43,240    37,000    48,201    36,200    42,009    45,848    50,039    54,b12    59,604   95,046
Equipment goods                         21,788    232332    26 424    34,894    29,200    43,400    36,901    44.244            49,704    5605    63,167    70 21213   124.421
Total goods                            119,382   124,616   153,887   187,547   174,199   218,103   211,095   255,884   283,719   313,278   348,902   388,451   688,720
Adjustments on custom statistics L    28,398    21,004  * 21,201    23,400    24,899    28,989    26,891    27,757    32,129    36,903    42,303    48,558    95,515
Non-factor services                    J18.280    24467    28.540    29 600    33403    37.401    34919    40,649    44.832    40 065    53  591    58.614    99,858
Total Imports                       j166060   1700.07   203,628   240.547   232,501   284;493   272.909   324.290  ~36680   399.246   444.796   495_623              40
D. CURRENT VALUES (c. i. f.)
(millions of US3)
Foodstuffs                               168.4     136.8      143.3    153.0      179.5      199.3      216.4    233.8      243.1      243.5      254.8     268.4      359.4
Petroleum                                 64.6      69.2       79.1      95.2      92.2      137.3      241.5    289.8      333.5      384.0      442.1     509.6   1 047.6
Intermediate goods                       100.5    160.4       182.0    197.1    '206.9       258.1      208.7    295.7      332.3      373.3      419.4     471.2      859.6
Other  consumer goods                     72.3      106.2     128.9    176.0      163.9      226.6      174.8    202.9      221.4      241.7      263.8     287.9      459.0
Equipment goods                           90.6     108.9      110.6    142.0      129.4      204.0      178.2    213.7      240.1      270.6      305.1      mo 1      601.0
Equipment Coods                          496.4     581.5      643.9    763.4      771.9   1 025.3    1019.6   1235.9   1370.4   1 513.1   1 685.2   1 876.2   3 326.6            o
Adjustments on customs statistics A      118.1      97.9       83.7      95.2     110.3      136.3      129.9    134.1      155.2      178.2      204.3     234.5      461.3
Non-factor serv,e.o                       76.0     114.2      119.8    120.5      148.0      175.8      168.7    196.3      216.5      236.9      25a.a L2X  1         482.3
Total Imports                          690.5     793.6      852.4  9_711.  1  030.2   1 337.4   __112 _._I 566J. ..            . 1  74 .IZ2, .2 7 14. _ *2393.8   4 270.2
(Excnange rates)                        (240.50)  (214.32)  (238.98) (245.67)  (225.64)  (212.72)  (207.06)  (201.06)  t207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.6)
1/ Adjustments are relatad to: (a) the timing of transactions;
(b)  utder-invoichng end unofficial boTder trade;
(c) stock movement. in bonded warehousea; and
(d)  supplies to  hips (mainly bunkrs).
/  The import price inde  La aiso aplied to mom-factor services
and trade adjustmts.



SENEGAL - DB:T AND CREITI'dWORTIINF.SS
(millions of current US$)O
Actuals                            Estimates                 t_ Projections
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978         1979        1980         1981        1982         1983        1984         1985        1990
A. MEDIUM AND LONC-TERM DEBT
(disbursed only)
1. Total Public Debt Outstanding                           245.1       295.0       350.4        417.1       581.7        717.6        914.0       1 059.2  1 238.3       1 452.2      1 716.8    1 997.9       3 220.4
2. Including Undisbursed                                  420.4       522.8        616.6       814.5     1 156.0    1 227.2    1. 147.1    1 354.3         1 605.8      1 955.9      2 341.0    2 721.0    4 206.4
3. Public Debt Service                                     33.4        39.3         42.3        56.5        98.0        122.0        154.9       152.6        146.6       163.6        197.8        248.5       497.2
a.  Interest                                            13.8        18.4        18.1         20.6        29.2         44.1        49.3         49.1         48.5        52.5         60.2        72.1        122.9
b.  Amortization                                        19.6        20.9        24.2         35.9        68.8         77.9       105.6        103.5         98.1       111.1        137.6       176.4        374.3
4. Other M & IT Debt Service                                -           -            1.1         1.8         11.1        1e.9         13.1        32.6        41.7         47.0         35.9        37.4         31
a.  Interest                                             -           _            1.1         1.8          3.4         3.8          3.6        23.1    .   23.2         21.9         23.2        22.4         21
b.  Amortization                                         -           -            -           -            7.7        15.1          9.5         9.5        18.5         25.1         12.7        15.0         10
5. Total Debt Service                                      33.4        39.3         43.4        58.3       109.1        140.9       168.0        185.2        188.3       210.6        233.7        285.9       528.2
6. Net Investment                                          26.0        37.0         23.0        24.8         28.4        37.6         45.9        38.2         41.0        42.0         44.0        45.4         69 9
7. Total Payment on Foreign Capital                        59.4        76.3         66.4        83.1       137.5        178.5       213.9        223.4        229.3       252.6        277.7       331.3        598.1
B:  DEBT BURDEN
1. Public Debt Service Ratio                                5.4         5.3          5.5         6.4         13.6        13.7         18.0         12.7        10.4         10.5        11.3         12.6         13.0
2. Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                         9.5        10.4          8.5         9.4         19.0        20.4         24.8         18.5        16.3         16.2        t15.9        16.8         15.7
3. Public Sebt Service/GDP                                  2.4         2.1          2.2         2.9         4.9          4.9          5.9          4.9         4.2          4.1         4.4          4.9          5.2
4. Public Debt ServiL,/Govt. Revenuel/                      4.5         5.2         10.0         9.3         11.3        15.5         19.5         20.4        16.2         14.9         15.2        16.2         -
C. TERMS-/
1. Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                          5.6         6.2          5.2         4.7         5.0          6.2          5.4          4.6         3.9          3.6          3.5         3.6          3.8
2. Public Debt Service/Total DOD                           13.6        13.3         12.1        12.7        17.0         17.1         16.9         14.4         11.8        11.3         11.5        12.4         15.4
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR N & LT DEBT-                                                                                                                                                                                               W)
1. Gross Disbursements/imports (incl. services)            10.4         8.5          9.0         8.9        18.7         15.1        21.6          15.0         15.1        16.1         17.9         18.2        14.4
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)                    7.8         6.3          6.5         6.9         8.9          6.5          9.9         7.4           6.3        6.1          5.9          5.7         4.7
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                         0.75        0.74         0.71        0.77         0.48        0.43         0.57        0.57         0.55        0.50         0.43        0.40         0.41
E.  EXPOSURE
1. IBRD Disb./Total Cross Disbursements                     1.0         9.4          5.6        14.1         .3.2         4.9          4.0         5.5          5.2          5.7         6.9          7.7         8.5
2. Bank Group Dicb./Total Gross Disbursements              20.9        24.9         19.9        22.6          7.6        13.1          8.6        11.8         11.9         12.0        12.1         12.8        13.9
3. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                       1.3         3.4          4.2         6.5          5.5         5.8          5.7         6.1          6.2          6.4         6.5          6.8         8.2
4. Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                14.2        18.1         19.9        2116         17.9        18.2         16.9         17.2        17.2         17.1        16.8         16.7         18.9
5. IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     1.8         1.9          2.9         3.6          4.2         3.2          3.1         4.6          6.3          6.6         5.9          5.8          6.5
6. Bank Group Debt Service/Tcial Debt Service               2.5         2.6          3.7         4.6          4.9          3.9         3.7          5.3         7.1          7.6         6.8          6.6          7.1
Outstanding Dec. 31. 1979                   Qutstanding Dec. 31, 1985                  Oatsandine Dec  31. 1990
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                             Amount               Percent                 Amount              Per-ent                Amoun t             Percent
1. IBRD                                                                      41.8                  5.8                  136.1                  6.8                265.3                   8.2
2. IDA                                                                       89.0                 12.4                  197.9                  9.9                 342.4                  10.6
3. Other Multilateral                                                        79.8                 11.1                  322.3                 16.1                568.4                  17.6
4. Governments                                                              259.1                 36.1                  577.7                 28.9                835.0                  25.9
5. Suppliers' Credit and Financial Institutions                             245.0                 34.1                  148.4                  7.4                  11.5                  0.4
6. Others                                                                     2.8                  0.4                  615.5                 30.8              1 197.8                   37.2
7. Total Public M 6 LT Debt                                                 717.5               100.0                1 997.9                 100.0              3 220.4                 100.0
8. Total Public M 6 LT Debt (incl. undisbursed)                           1 227.2                171.0               2 721.0                 136.2              4 206.4                 131.4                                      0 
OQ (D
G.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1980-85/DOD end-1979                   177.2.                                                                                                                                                                   (D ID
a0 H
1/   Debt service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal years).
2/   Public debt only.
3i Higlh Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1981)
Amount, less cancellati.
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisburs4
Four Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed             13.5    58.1
336-SE      1972   Senegal    Housing Site
and Services                 8.0         2.0
866-SE      1972   OPTS        Telecommunications    6.2                   0.5
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT  Development Finance   3.0                    0.2
530-SE      1975   Senegal    Education II                     15.0        4.0
1113-SE      1975   Senegal    Agric. Diversifi-
cation                 7.0                4.2
578-SE      1975   Senegal    Terres Neuves II                  2.0        0.0 1/
1221T-SE      1976   Senegal    Feeder Roads             6.6                 0.6
1222-SE      1976   Senegal    Third Highway           15.0                 3.1
633-SE      1976   Senegal    Livestock                         4.2        2.1
647-SE      1976   Senegal    Second Sedhiou                    6.3        2.6
1332-SE      1976   SOFISEDIT  Second Development
Finance              4.2                 1.3
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal    Port of Dakar            6.0                 1.0
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism   8.0                    4.3
1413-SE      1977   Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism   5.6                    3.1
764-SE     1978   Senegal    Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                   6.3        2.7
775-SE     1978   Senegal    Irrigation                        20.0        9.5
1518-SE     1978   RCFS         Railways III           11.0                 5.0
1665-SE     1979   Senegal    Second Airport            7.0                 4.4
S-23-SE      1979   Senegal    Water Supply Engr.                2.5        2.2
908-SE       1979   Senegal    Education III                    22.0       20.2
991-SE       1980   Senegal    Small Rural
Operations                   11.0       10.2
993-SE       1980   Senegal    Fourth Highway                   28.0       28.0
1810-SE       1980   Senegal    Fourth Highway          10.0                10.0
S-26-SE       1980   Senegal    Power Eng and T.A.                3.3        3.2
1931-SE       1980   Senegal    Structural
Adjustment 2/       30.0      --        30.0
Total                                    133.1   186.7       154.4
of which has been repaid                 8.2      0.7
Total now outstanding                    124.9   186.0
Amount sold                         3.4
of which has been repaid         3.2
0.2
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 3/    124.7   186.0
Total Undisbursed                         67.7    86.7       154.4
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   A balance of $1,610.29 remains undisbursed.
2/   There is also a credit of SDR 22.9 million (US$30.0 million) under this
project.
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 33 -                      ANNIEX II
Page 2
B. SDR Denominated IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1981)
Amount less cancellation
(SDR miLllion)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower  Purpose                          Undisbursed
1061-SE         1980   Senegal   Technical
Assistance      4.1               4.1
1084-SE         1981   Senegal   Structural
Adjustment *  22.9               22.9
Total                              27.0              27.0
of which has been repaid           -                 -
Total now outstanding              27.0              27.0
Amount sold                          -
of which has been repaid           -
Total now held                     27.0              27.0
Total undisbursed                                    27.0
*    There is also a Loan of US$30.0 million under this project.
C. Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal       Obligor             Type of Business      Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant        2.45        1.01     3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                     Vegetable Export        -          0.84     0.84
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                Development
Finance Company        -          0.24     0.24
1980   Banque de l'Habitat      Money and Capital       -          0.47     0.47
du Senegal S.A.          Market
1980   Societe Hoteliere        Tourism                3.00         -       3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                         5.45       2.56      8.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
repayment and sales                          2.45        1.05      3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC               3.00       1.51      4.51
Undisbursed Balance                             3.00       0.600     3.00



ANNEX II
Page 3
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 336       Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding
satisfactorily following agreements reached with the Government in October
1978 to improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has
been plot consolidation and occupancy, but this is showing improvement with
the assistance of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Sene-
galese national development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site
development has also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment
opportunities other than construction-related activities; a unit in OHLM is
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
Ln. 866   Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about five years longer than originally sche-
duled mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and
changes in top management. The physical works are now compl6ted. The
Borrower has made significant efforts over the past two years to improve its
management, as well as its accounting and financial organization. This,
together with the audits and financial advisors financed under the Parapub-
lic Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 764), is expected to result in
substantial institutional improvements.
Ln. 987   SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974i Closing Date: December 31, 1980. 2/
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism.
A Project Completion Report will be circulated shortly.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation remains about two years behind schedule
because of earlier delays in design and contract awards.  These delays,
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
2/   The last withdrawal application is expected any day.



- 35 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4
together with a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost
overrun of about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs,
the Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce
the scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to
8, the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The Indus-
trial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in all trades.
Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have been completed.
Construction of 7 of the science centers and lower secondary schools was
satisfactorily completed at end of 1979. The last center was finished early
in 1981.  Procurement of furniture and equipment is completed.  The rural
youth training component is experiencing implementation difficulties; but
modified educational objectives and a revised implementation schedule have
been agreed with the Government.
Cr. 549       Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113       US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers agricultural practices, particu-
larly through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. Hcwever,
results over the first four years of the project show that yield increases
have been negligible. It was therefore decided, in agreement with the
Government and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in an attempt
to finld new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint re-appraisal
was carried out in November 1979, and a draft Amendment to the Credit Agree-
ment was re-negotiated with Government in May 1980 and signed on August 14,
1980, when the closing date was extended to June 30, 1983.
Cr. 578       Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 15, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980. _/
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
project has been completed satisfactorily, although about one year behind
schedule, and a Completion Report is being prepared.
1/   The last withdrawal application is expected any day.



- 36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of high-
way equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The
project had been experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient financial,
managerial, and logistic support; but on the recommendation of and in agreement
with the Bank, the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate
works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of
satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, is continued under the Fourth Highway Project to strengthen the
maintenance organization and operations. As a result of currency realign-
ments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than planned, an
amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank has
agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover the foreign
cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance, improving work-
shops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and training
equipment.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national



- 37 -                          ANNEX II
P'age 6
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit show that participating farms had no signif:icant yield
increases (except for rice) over those farms outside the project, and that
the area cultivated per participant is smaller than expected. Work on the
agricultural development plan for the Casamance Region by the pioject's
Planning Unit is now completed, and further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit
for   industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a
pilot scheme of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through
SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency. The Loan is fully committed.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishiig Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works have
been completed. The quality of contractors- workmanship is good, and the
new quays have been put into use. All the technical assistance services
and studies are progressing satisfactorily and the container study financed
by the project has been adequately completed. Overall performance of the
Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are continuing problems with
receivables, statistics, and recruitment and retention of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413       Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12, 1980; Effective
January 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies
to improve planning and promotion in the tourism sector and a line of credit
for long-term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of
infrastructure works at the Sali project area have been satisfactorily com-
pleted and areas designated for hotel construction are ready for delivery.
The common recreation center and commercial areas are under construction.
The first hotel (Palm Beach) was opened on December 24, 1980. Bidding docu-
ments for renovation works at Goree are under preparation.
Ln. 1518      Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance,
supply of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications faci-
lities and track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive



- 38 -                     ANNEX II
Page 7
power and rolling stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities,
and studies. Track repair work between Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfac-
torily for about 12 months, but the quality of ballast procured by the
Regie was found to be poor. Neither the Regie nor the Government has been
able to provide the local funds needed for better quality ballast in FY81,
and so the track repair work has been halted to be resumed after 8 months
when funds in the next financial year become available. Practically the
entire order of locomotive spare parts has been received. The locomotive
rehabilitation work has commenced. The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have completed two phases of the study of the
optimum structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the
connecting Mali Railway). Railway traffic in the fiscal year ending June 30,
1980 was the same as that of the previous year and did not register the
improvement expected, following the delivery of two new high-power locomo-
tives, as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive rehabilitation
program, due to an unexpected set back, caused by the loss of a new locomotive
in a serious accident. The entire project is likely to take one year more
than expected. There is likely to be a local-cost overrun of $2 million and
no overrun in the foreign cost.
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective,
but Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Training programs for government administrators have been pro-
gressing well and several intensive and specialized courses were organized in
1980 with more planned for 1981. The audits of State enterprises have been
satisfactorily completed and follow-up of audit recommendations by the
agencies has been good.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future develop-
ment of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are now completed.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) has started.



- 39 -                        iNNEX II
Page 8
Ln. 1665      Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily com-
pleted by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed and contracts
for civil works at Ziguinchor have been satisfactorily awarded.
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical
studies to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and
extension of water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six
regional capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and
operating entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agree-
ment with the Association, and work was started in the fall of 1980.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
'Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and esitablish a
solid base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Physical
implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Civil works contracts for the
major components have been awarded and construction has already started on
two sites and is expected to begin shortly on the others. Bidding and con-
tract award procedures for equipment, valued at about US$2.0 million, for two
secondary technical schools, the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center,
and the Technical Teacher Training College are underway. Implementation of
the educational research and planning component has been delayed by about six
months following a Government review of the proposed Educational Research
Institute.
Cr. 991      Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Effective September 10, 1980; Closing Datez December 31, 1984
The project focusses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivaLtion of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project: also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure.



-40 -                          ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 993       Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810      Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective December 9, 1980;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government-s
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about
200 km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road
(about 85 km) to two-lane, paved standards.
Cr. S-26-SE Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; USt3.3 million
Credit of June 18, 1980; Effective August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to assist Government in
developing an overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The
project also includes financial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies
for a headquarters building for the new power entity and for the expansion of
the generating facilities. The project is well underway.
Cr. 1061      Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning;
US$5.3 million Credit of October 27, 1980; Effective; January 9, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Govern-
ment's ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and
evaluate retrospectively its portfolio of development projects.  It also aims
at strengthening the public debt monitoring, budgeting and forecasting capa-
city and improving coordination between project needs and public financing.
Ln. 1931-SE   Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit:  US$30 million
Cr. 1084-SE   Loan and US$30 million Credit of January 26, 1981; Not yet effec-
tive; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Loan/Credit proceeds would be made available to the Senegalese
Government during the first part of its medium-term economic stabilization
and rehabilitation program. Counterpart funds would be used principally in
the agriculture sector for reorganization of the rural development agencies.
About US$1.0 million equivalent would be used for consultant studies.



- 41 -                         ANNEX II
Page 10
E.   IFC INVESTMENTS
SIES - 114-SE - Fertilizers
The Company started producing in 1968 and is operating near full
capacity. Most of its production is sold domestically. IFC's loan was
entirely repaid in FY78. Overall performance has been satisfactory in FYs 77
and 78. A merger of the Company with Industries Chimiques du Senegal (ICS), a
project to build facilities to make phosphoric acid and intermediate ferti-
lizers, and a related IFC loan financing of some US$25 million are currently
under consideration.
BHS - 500 SE - Housing Finance
BHS, the first specialized housing finance institution established
in Senegal, is intended to contribute to increasing domestic savings mobiliza-
tion by improving the forms and terms of domestic savings and the channelling
of these savings into longer-term uses. It will focus on the f:Lnancing of
housing for lower-middle income groups. It is expected to ensure a regular
flow of funds for construction and mortgage financing and will fill a gap in
the Senegalese financial system. The bank started operations on March 17, 1980
and results to date are encouraging.
Societe Hoteliere du Barachois, S.A. - 516 SE - Hotel
This project consists of the construction and operation of a 280
room hotel in the center of Dakar. Construction is well underway and no major
difficulties have been encountered. Project completion is still expected by
March 1982. IFC has not disbursed its US$3.0 million loan commitment as the
Company is completing the formalities related to the conditions of disburse-
ment.



- 42 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  First Bank/IDA Mission to consider the project:  December 1979.
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:  SOFISEDIT, SONEPI and Bank
staff
(c)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  April 1980
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:  March 1981
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  July 1981
Section II - Special Project Implementation Action:
None
Section III - Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) The Government would:
(i)  bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank's loan for a 0.5
percent fee to be passed on to sub-borrowers by SOFISEDIT
(para. 50);
(ii) honor its guarantee on SOFISEDIT's sub-projects currently in
arrears (para. 41); and
(iii)  review in consultation with the AssDciation the conclusions
and recommendations of the industrial policy studies and
implement such recommendations in consultation with the Assu-
ciation (para. 54).
(b) SOFISEDIT would:
(i)  not maintain more than 35 percent of its portfolio outstanding
in enterprises in the fisheries sector (para. 40);
(ii) apply a minimum spread of 3 percent above the cost of borrowed
funds or market rates, whichever is higher (para. 50);
(iii)  submit by December 31, 1981, a training program for its staff
to the Association for approval (para. 52); and
(iv) not make withdrawals from the Credit generally until the
SOFISEDIT Financing Agreement with the Government is signed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Assciation, and
specifically, with respect to equity investments, until each
such investment receives the approval of the Assciation (para.
51 and 56).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) SONEPI would:
not make withdrawals from the Credit generally until t!he SONEPI
Financing Agreement with the Government is signed on t,erms and
conditions satisfactory to the Asaciation, and specifically,
with respect to expenditures relating to budget support and consul-
tants, until the results of the performance audit receive the
approval of the Association (para. 53 and 56).



