Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7276-MOZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 109.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION
November 17, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1998)
Currency Unit: Metical (Mt); plural: Meticais
US$1 = Mt 12,084
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM                Banco Comercial de Mo,ambique
BM                 Bank of Mozambique
BPD                Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CG                 Consultative Group
CFM                Caminhos de Ferro de Mo,ambique national railways)
CRF                Clean Report of Findings
EMOSE              Empresa Mo,ambicana de Seguros
EMR                Economic Management Reform Operation
EMRS               Expenditure Management Reform Strategy
ESAF               Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
FIAS               Foreign Investment Advisory Service
HIPC               Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                International Development Association
IFC                International Finance Corporation
IMF                International Monetary Fund
LAM                Linhas Aereas de Mo,ambique (national airline)
MIGA               Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
PETROMOC           Empresa Nacional de Petr6leos de Mo,ambique
PSI                Pre-shipment Inspection
SAD                Single Administrative Document
SADC               Southern Africa Development Community
TERC               Third Economic Recovery Credit
UTRE               Enterprise Restructuring Technical Unit
VAT                Value Added Tax
Vice President       Callisto E. Madavo
Director           : Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager     : Ataman Aksoy
Task Team Leader   : Manuela Ferro



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION
Table of Contents
SUMMARY ..........................................................                              -ii
PART I. THE  ECONOMY ...................................................1..... 
A. BACKGROUND .........................................................                                                 I
B. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                             ........................................................ 3
PART  II. MOZAMBIQUE'S ADJUSTMENT  PROGRAMA .................................................... 4
A. CONSOLIDATING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY .........................................................                      5
B. PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ........................................................                 9
C. HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND POVERTY REDUCTION .........................................................                  1 0
D. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ................................. 11
PART  III. THE PROPOSED  OPERATION  ........................................................                          11
A. RATIONALE FOR THE OPERATION AND LINK WITH HIPC REFORM  AGENDA ............................. 11
B. LINK TO THE CAS AND POVERTY IMPACT .........................................................                       12
C. OPERATION COMPONENTS ........................................................                                      13
D. SPECIFIC AGREEMENTS UNDER THE OPERATION ........................................................                   16
E. OPERATION AMOUNT, DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
ARRANGEMENTS ........................................................ 17
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................................ 17
PART  IV. BANK  OPERATIONS ........................................................                                   18
PART V. COLLABORATION  WITH  THE  IMF ........................................................                          18
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION .........................................................                                     19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. SOCIAL INDICATORS
B. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
C. KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
D. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF FINANCING
E. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
F. SUPPLEMENTARY GRANT DATA SHEET
G. MATRIX OF ACTIONS
H. KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
1. MOZAMBIQUE AT A GLANCE
J. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Manuela Ferro (Economist and Task
Team Leader, AFTMI); Jehan Arulpragasam (Economist, AFTMI); Luis de Azcarate
(Consultant); David Wilton (Sr. Financial Sector Specialist, AFTP I); Rocio Castro (Sr.
Economist, AFTM4); Ataman Aksoy (Sector Manager, AFTM4); Peter Miovic (Sector Manager,
AFTM2); Frederick Kilby (Lead Specialist, AFTM2); Kishor Uprety (Legal Counsel, LEGAF);
Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto (Research Assistant, AFTMI); and Adriana Flynn (Sr. Language
Task Team Assistant, AFTMI).



MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION
SUMMARY
Recipient:               Republic of Mozambique
Executing Agency:        Ministry of Planning and Finance
Amount and Terms:        SDR 109.5 million (US$150 million equivalent). This is an
IDA grant as part of HIPC Interim Measures.
Description:             The proposed operation builds on the implementation of
previous economic reforms and the progress achieved in
stabilizing and jump-starting Mozambique's post-war
economy. The program airns at sustaining growth with
poverty reduction and diminishing dependency on external
aid over the medium to long run.  In particular, the
proposed operation would support measures to enhance the
sustainability and efficiency of public sector operations,
focusing on fiscal reform. Measures to improve revenue
mobilization and the incentive regime include indirect tax
reforms, trade liberalization, and the rationalization of the
import process. Expenditure management and budgetary
reform measures include formulation of a medium-term
fiscal framework, identification of off-budget flows and
mechanisms for their inclusion in future budgets.
Benefits:                The proposed operation, designed to support explicit CAS
and HIPC objectives, is part of a continuing set of reforms
designed  to  consolidate  a  stable  macroeconomic
environment, sustain growth., and reduce poverty through
improvements in the sustainability of public service
delivery.
Risks:                   The proposed operation involves three categories of risk.
First, in spite of progress in building institutional and
managerial capacity, weaknesses remain which could slow
down execution or comprornise the quality of reforms.
Second, resistance to further trade liberalization and tax
reform  might be expected.  Third, parliamentary and
presidential elections are planned for 1999, involving some
risk of slippage in implementing reforms perceived to be



unpopular. These risks are mitigated by the Government's
demonstrated commitment to a wide-ranging reform
program, and by its ongoing efforts to carry out systematic
consultation with stakeholders.
Disbursements:          The proposed Grant of US$150 million will be disbursed in
two equal tranches, the first upon effectiveness and the
second when all second tranche conditions *are satisfied,
expected by mid-1 999.
Project ID Number:      MZ-PE-1767



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
grant to the Republic of Mozambique for SDR 109.5 million, an amount equivalent to about
US$150 million in support of its structural adjustment program. This operation would provide IDA
interim debt relief in the context of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt initiative.
2.    The proposed Economic Management Reform (EMR) operation is Mozambique's sixth
adjustment operation. Mozambique is successfully managing a transition from war to peace and
from a centrally-planned to a market-driven economy. The end of the war and the establishment of
a democratic system have restored political stability, improving the development prospects for the
country. A series of wide-ranging economic reforms has been implemented since 1987, supported
by substantial external assistance. The pace of economic reform has accelerated markedly in the past
three years, notably on privatization and financial sector reformn. This has contributed to restoring
macroeconomic stability and sustaining economic growth. As a result of the strong stabilization
and adjustment record as well as the Government's reform pro!gram, Mozambique qualified for the
HIPC debt initiative in April 1998, with a completion point of June 1999. The proposed EMR
operation would build on satisfactory implementation of reforms under previous adjustment
operations and is designed to support the reform agenda as outlined in the Final HIPC Document for
Mozambique of March 31, 1998. Specifically, the operation would support the Government's
efforts, focusing on fiscal reform, to enhance the sustainability and efficiency of public sector
operations. It would also support the implementation of key reforms agreed to in the Policy
Framework Paper for 1998-2000, and complement the third annual ESAF program approved by the
IMF Board in August 1998.
I.    THE ECONOMY
A.   Background
3.    Macroeconomic Reforms and Performance. Starting in 1987, prior to the end of civil
war, the first structural reforms marked the shift from a centrally-planned economy to a market-
oriented one and initiated the liberalization of import controls and the price regime. During the
post-conflict stage from 1992 to 1997, production, commercial and financial activities were
privatized, while increased shares of government resources were allocated to the social sectors and
infrastructure. Reforms in indirect tax and trade regime were initiated and the basic legislative
framework for improved public resource management was established.



2
4.    The reform program has been comprehensive and its implementation sound, especially in the
light of limited technical and institutional capacity. The Government's phased but determined
approach to stabilization and structural adjustment has had a positive impact on confidence levels
from development partners as well as investors. Reforms have been strongly supported by external
donors, with around two thirds of budgetary expenditures supported by external aid.
5.    The cornerstone of the stabilization program has been the containment and reduction of the
quasi-fiscal deficit linked to the financial and non-financial state enterprises. Until 1995, monetary
outcomes had been less satisfactory, with quasi-fiscal losses associated with the banking system
creating difficulties for monetary control. Control over the fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits was
achieved only with the privatization of the two public banks (Banco Comercial de Movambique,
BCM, in 1996 and Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento, BPD, in 1997), as well as most large state-
owned enterprises. This enhanced the effectiveness of fiscal and monetary policies and was the
decisive factor in the restoration of macroeconomic stability. Macroeconomic stability and lower
inflation has, in turn, resulted in a stable currency for the first time since the adjustment program
was initiated. The Government's sustained implementation of the key elements of the reform
program has been endorsed by the international community at successive Consultative Group (CG)
meetings, the most recent of which took place for the first time in Mozambique in September 1998.
.5.    As a result of economic reforrns, as well as population resettlement and a series of favorable
crop seasons, the economy is experiencing a strong recovery. Although starting from a low base,
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rates have averaged over 6 percent during the last four
years. In addition to strong growth, main macroeconomic developments during the last decade
include the reduction of the fiscal deficit before grants since 1990, a sharp reduction in central bank
financing of the Government since 1989, and a downward trend in the current account deficit as a
percentage of GDP.
Mozambique   Sub-Saharan Africa
GNP per capita (US$, 1997)              130               500
Life expectancy at birth (years)        45                52
Infant mortality (per 1,000)            134               91
Maternal mortality (per 100,000)        1,100             700
Illiteracy (% population age 15+)        60               43
Gross primary enrollment (% age group)  60                75
Of which: Female                   50               67
Sources: Government of Mozambique and staff estimates (latest year, unless otherwise indicated).
7.    Human development and poverty reduction. While progress on the economic front has
been impressive, Mozambique's reconstruction needs, in terms of both econornic infrastructure and
social services, remain large and pressing. With a per capita GNP of only $130 and one of the
highest ratios of aid dependency in the world, Mozambique's recovery starts from a very low base.
Mozambique's social indicators remain weak, even by Sub-Saharan Africa standards. Social
service delivery suffered during the civil war, when one third of all rural health units and nearly 70



3
percent of the school network were destroyed or closed down. Despite a tight fiscal situation, the
Government increased locally-financed health and education expenditures each year between 1990
and 1997 (with the exception of 1994, when significant resources had to be mobilized to finance
elections, demobilization, and post-war resettlement). In health, efforts have focused on the
rehabilitation of the primary health network, drug supplies, and training of health personnel. An
integrated sector health sector expenditure program aimed at improving access and quality of health
services, in particular in rural areas, was adopted in 1995. Service utilization expanded by 12
percent in 1994-95 and by an estimated 8 percent in 1996. Access to primary education has also
increased after the war, but quality remains low. The number of primary classrooms, particularly in
rural areas, has increased by about 40 percent between 1992' and 1996, and the average gross
primary enrollment rate rose from 54 to 62 percent over the same period. Although improving,
quality indicators such as teacher qualifications, availability oi textbooks, and the student/teacher
ratio (58:1) remain unsatisfactory. As a result, repetition and drop-out rates are still high and
enrollment rates for secondary education are only 3 percent. An integrated, basic education
program financed by multiple donors is at an advanced stage of preparation.
B.    Recent Economic Developments
8.    The main economic developments since 1996 have been the continuation of growth and the
reduction in inflation. Real economic growth, strong since the start of adjustment in 1987, increased
to 7.1 percent in 1996 and 12.4 in 1997.' Growth has been broad based, with transportation,
agriculture, and more recently, industry showing particularly encouraging outcomes. The twelve-
month inflation rate declined from 16.6 percent at end-96 to 5.8 percent at end-97, due to better
monetary control, favorable weather, and declining import prices. This trend continued during the
first semester of 1998. Net international reserves of the Bank of' Mozambique rose to the equivalent
of 4 months of imports at end-1997 and the nominal exchange rate has been stable. However, the
metical appreciated in real effective terms between late 1995 and early-1998, leading to concerns
about a possible loss of external competitiveness. The external account deficit narrowed by about
nine percentage points during 1996-97, reflecting an expansion of export volumes and an
improvement in the terms of trade. The current account appears to be weakening in 1998, reflecting
the start-up of large projects (the Mozal aluminum smelter, the Maputo Development Corridor, and
rehabilitation of textile and sugar factories), as well as possibly an increased demand for imports
associated with the real effective appreciation of the metical through early 1998.
9.    A second three-year arrangement under the IMF's Enhanaced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) was approved by the IMF Board in June 1996. Performance during the annual ESAF
program that was completed in June 1998 and the 1997-1999 Policy Framework Paper has been
generally satisfactory. End-December 1997 quantitative benchm,arks under the ESAF program were
observed, except that relating to the net domestic assets of the banking system. Growth of money
and credit to the private sector exceeded program targets in 1997 because of stronger-than-expected
economic growth and money demand. A mid-term ESAF review was successfully completed in
April 1998 and a new ESAF program was approved in late August 1998. Good progress is being
I This document uses new national accounts series compiled by the National ][nstitute of Statistic (INE).



4
made in the implementation of the structural reforms included in the 1998-2000 Policy Framework
Paper. In addition to the privatization of the two state-owned banks, 85 large enterprises and over
1000 small enterprises were privatized by June 1998. The importing and marketing functions of the
oil company have been separated, the company's import monopoly eliminated, and a private oil
importing company was created. Customs administration was entrusted to a specialized company in
1997 for a period of three years; a system of full reconciliation of import taxes due and paid was set
up; and average import duties were lowered from 18 to 11 percent and exemptions curtailed. In
addition, new budgetary recording and monitoring procedures were introduced; public
administration is being decentralized and a civil service reform agenda is being implemented;
banking supervision is being strengthened and bank reserve requirements were lowered, made more
flexible, and extended to foreign currency deposits; and, the payments system is being modernized.
10.   Progress with certain reforms has been slower than envisaged because of limited technical
and implementation capacity rather than lack of commitment by the Government. This has been the
case with the introduction of the Value Added Tax (VAT), which was delayed from the originally
envisaged date of July 1, 1998 to April 1999, the improvements in the quality of economic and
social statistics (for instance, the national accounts, balance of payments, poverty and employment
statistics), and the modernization and simplification of the legal and regulatory framework to
facilitate trade and investment.
11.   Mozambique's debt burden remains heavy. At end-December 1997, the external public and
publicly-guaranteed debt stock was US$5.5 billion, or 283 percent of GDP and its present value was
685 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services. In 1997, total debt service payments after
debt relief amounted to 24 percent of exports of goods and nonfactor services. To address the debt
problem, and on the basis of its adjustment track record as well as the reform program it has defined
through 1999, Mozambique qualified for the HIPC initiative in April 1998, with a completion point
of June 1999. Subject to satisfactory performance in the implementation of key structural reformns
under IDA and IMF-supported programs, including this operation, Mozambique will benefit from a
stock of debt reduction under the HIPC initiative at the completion point. After the completion
point, the stock of public debt is expected to decline to US$1.1 billion in net present value terms,
and public debt service payments after debt relief are expected to fall below 20 percent of exports.
II.   MOZAMBIQUE'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
12.   Mozarnbique's medium- and long-term goals are to create the conditions for poverty-
reducing growth, while lowering the country's dependence on external aid. The medium-term
outlook is good, as the Government has been successful in stabilizing and jump-starting the
economy after the war and has moved decisively towards adoption of the basic rules of a market
economy.  Peace has been restored, populations have resettled, growth has resumed, and
stabilization is gradually being achieved. The Governmuent is now embarking on a set of reforms
aimed at sustaining growth and ensuring a wider spread of its benefits, while gradually reducing
dependence on external aid. These involve: (i) consolidation of macroeconomic stability through
improved sustainability and efficiency of public sector operations; (ii) privatization and private



5
sector development; and (iii) human development and poverty reduction.
13.   For the medium-term, annual growth is projected at over 7 percent, led by domestic and
foreign investment and agricultural exports. The strategy for attaining these objectives involves
reliance on private-sector led growth, which will be fostered through the enhancement of export
competitiveness and reduction of the anti-export bias in the tax and tariff system, as well as the
creation of a business-friendly environment. Growth-oriented policies will be complemented by
institutional and policy reforms to improve the quantity and quality of delivery of public services
and assistance to the poor. Progress is being made in resolving the external debt problem with
Mozambique's recent eligibility for the HIPC initiative.
A.    Consolidating Macroeconomic Stability
14.   The Government plans to capitalize on the macroeconomic stability gains achieved so far by
strengthening fiscal management, including the coordination between fiscal and monetary policies.
The macroeconomic framework for the 1998-2000 period targets: (i) real GDP growth of about 7
percent (excluding large projects); (ii) end-of-period inflation o f 6 to 8 percent; (iii) the maintenance
of gross international reserves at approximately 5 months of projected imports in 1998, declining to
4 months in 2000; and (iv) zero net government repayments to the banking system in 1998 and
1999. Several large-scale private investment projects in energy (electricity and gas) and other
sectors (iron, steel, aluminum), including activities associated with the Maputo Development
Corridor, are expected to push total GDP growth to over 9 percent in 1998 and 1999.
(a) Fiscal Policies
15.   Mozambique's inherited large fiscal and external imbalances, if they persist, will continue to
imply levels of foreign assistance which are neither assured nor desirable. Despite progress in 1996
and 1997, fiscal reform will remain at the center of Mozambique's reform agenda in the coming
years. Given Mozambique's high degree of dependence on external aid and its still weak revenue
base, as well as the need to improve the quality and quantity of public services, the attainment of
fiscal sustainability is a critical objective, from the point of view of both short-term macroeconomic
management and growth prospects. Complementing the external debt relief to be provided under
the HIPC debt initiative, the Government's reform program for attaining fiscal sustainability
involves: (i) developing a more efficient and less distorting revenue mobilization system; and
(ii) improving sustainability and efficiency of public expenditures, including local and externally-
financed expenditures.
(i) Revenue Mobilization and the Incentive Regime
16.   Until recently, revenue growth has outweighed considerations of an optimal tax structure in
the Government's taxation policy. This was unavoidable because continuing to pursue fiscal
adjustment through expenditure reduction would have underrmined priority social and economic
programs. The focus on revenue growth, while justified in terms of macroeconomic adjustment,



6
public expenditure needs, and reduction in aid dependence, can have costs in terms of resource
misallocation if it is based on a distortive tax system. Furthermore, the rapid economic growth of
the past decade has increased the number of taxpayers but also the incentives and opportunities for
tax evasion, as tax laws, administration, and audit capabilities have become increasingly inadequate
for Mozambique's new economy.
17.   The basic structure of domestic tax system suffers from a number of problems, including
high rates, coupled with exemption and special incentive regimes, and weak administration.
Following a 1986 tax revision, Mozambique's Government shifted to a greater reliance on indirect
taxes. In 1997, taxes on goods and services (turnover, consumption, petroleum) accounted for 56
percent of total tax revenue, while direct taxes and trade taxes contributed around 20 percent each.
The turnover tax, which generates around one third of total tax revenue, is a cascading sales tax that
applies at all production stages, reaching rates of over 25 percent and distorting economic
incentives. The consumption tax still has the features more of a general sales tax than of a selective
excise duty. Corporate tax rates are high by international standards, but yielded only 10 percent of
tax revenue in 1997. Furthermore, non-uniform rates (35 percent for agriculture, 40 percent for
manufacturing, and 45 percent for all other activities) discriminate against service industries, which
are labor intensive and could contribute to reducing unemployment.
18.   The trade tax system has been substantially rationalized and the level of trade taxes reduced
since the early 1990s. A major trade reform, implemented in 1996, further simplified the import
tariff structure, lowered the average (trade-weighted) nominal duty rate from 18 percent to 11
percent, and limited exemptions. This reform represented an important step toward improving
economic incentives for producers, lowering prices for consumers, and simplifying customs
administration. However, with a top duty rate of 35 percent on final goods and 2.5 to 7.5 percent on
intermediates (5 percent on capital goods), effective protection on final products remains high while
that on raw materials could be low or negative. Further, import surcharges were introduced for a
few commodities and a number of goods remain misclassified. Given that Mozambique recently
signed the protocol creating the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC) free trade area,
it is committed to eventually eliminating import tariffs on intra-SADC trade.2
19.   Although improving, tax administration is still very weak, allowing for high levels of tax
evasion and fraud. The main problems confronting the tax administration are the shortage of
qualified personnel, unproductive paperwork due to outdated and complicated procedures,
inadequate data generation, and absence of vital sections such as a research and policy unit,
statistical unit and survey unit. On the trade side, the customs reform program has begun and has
three components: (i) management of customs: a specialized firm was contracted in 1997 to manage
day-to-day customs operations for a period of three years; (ii) customs restructuring: to sustain
improved management, a program of training, computerization, procedural review, and
reorganization has already started and will be completed in 1999; and (iii) pre-shipment inspection
(PSI): under a new PSI contract, full reconciliation of all import taxes due and paid is being carried
out.
2The SADC protocol will become effective when two-thirds of signatory members have ratified it. The protocol sets a
period of 8 years for the elimination of tariffs on goods originating within the trading area after it becomes effective.



7
20.   The Government has now embarked on a comprehensive medium-term revenue mobilization
effort which will expand the tax base, lessen distortions due to the structure of the current tax
regime, lower reliance on trade taxes, and continue to reduce tax exemptions. Some of these
reforms have already started. In addition to the 1996 trade reform that lowered and simplified the
tariff, export taxes were eliminated for all but two commodities (cotton and raw cashew) and even
for these their level has been reduced. The coverage of the conrsumption tax was reduced in 1996
and preparations to replace the cascading turnover tax with a Value Added Tax (VAT) are at an
advanced stage.
21.   Tax reform is a long haul operation. The Government has recently lowered the level and
rationalized the structure of the labor income tax and will begin rationalizing the corporate profit
taxes by early-1999. In 1998 and 1999, key measures in the Government's tax reform program will
be implemented: (i) replacing the turnover tax with a VAT; (ii) replacing the consumption tax with
a narrower excise tax; (iii) further liberalizing the trade regime by reducing the top import duty rate
for finished (consumer) goods from the current 35 percent; (iv) and simplifying the annual importer
registration procedures as well as the import process. Because trade reform and the reform of
customs administration are complementary undertakings, the Government will also continue its
program to strengthen customs administration. The Government is also increasing the number of
qualified personnel to administer and enforce tax laws, accelerating the process of defining tax
identification numbers, and computerizing tax offices.
(ii) Expenditure Management and Budgetary Reform
22.   Since the end of the war in 1992, the Government has significantly reallocated expenditures
towards health, education, and infrastructure. Military spending was reduced following the peace
accords, the civil service is not considered to be large, and government salaries are extremely low.
Currently, there is little scope for expenditure reduction due to pressing demands for increased
social service delivery and infrastructure rehabilitation. There is a need to ensure adequate
budgetary recurrent funds to finance health and education programs, maintain infrastructure, and to
decompress civil servant salaries.
23.   Given that about two thirds of the budget are financed with external aid, the Government is
particularly concerned with the sustainability of expenditures over the medium term. The three-year
rolling public investment plan, in place since 1989, has been a useful tool to evaluate and program
the investment budget, but it has not allowed for the overall assessment of both recurrent and capital
expenditures within a medium-term resource envelope. Moreover, still incomplete budgetary
coverage, inadequate classification - with a considerable share of recurrent costs included in the
investment budget, as well as poor monitoring of budget execution, particularly of grant-financed
projects, have made it difficult to ensure the sustainability and efficiency of public expenditures.
24.  In order to meet these concerns and ensure that medium-term priorities, such as continuing
to increase the coverage and quality of health and education, are addressed, the Government
launched a comprehensive Expenditure Management Reform Strategy (EMRS) in 1997. The
objectives of the reform strategy are to ensure fiscal sustainability while increasing the transparency



8
and efficiency of public expenditures, including those financed through external aid. In particular,
the EMRS focuses on: (i) improving the effectiveness of the budget as a tool to ensure that fiscal
aggregates are sustainable in the medium term; (ii) improving the prioritization of public
expenditures to attain stated policy objectives and outputs; and (iii) enhancing the transparency of
public resource use.
25.   Major steps in the implementation of the Government expenditure program have already
been taken. In 1997, a new Budgetary Framework Law (Lei de Enquadramento Orqamental) was
enacted, putting into place the fundamental principles for preparing, managing, executing,
controlling, and accounting for the budget. These principles were already adopted for the 1998
budget. In 1998 and 1999, critical steps in the Government's expenditure and budgetary reform
program include (i) identifying off-budget flows (both expenditures and revenues); (ii) identifying
recurrent expenditures now in the investment budget and formulating a methodology for their
correct reclassification as recurrent expenditures in future budgets; (iii) putting into place a
computerized system to manage and control the budget; (iv) developing a rolling five-year medium-
term fiscal framework to be used in the annual budgeting process (starting with the 1999 budget
proposal) and to move towards linking budgeting decisions to specific outcomes; and (vi)
examining alternative modem accounting systems for public accounts, for possible application in
Mozambique in the near future.
(b) Financial Sector Reform and Monetary Policy
26.   Over the past three years, Mozambique's financial system has been transformed from an
oligopolistic, state-dominated structure, into a more diversified and increasingly competitive
system, better equipped to intermediate savings in support of the enterprise sector. New banking
entry has been important in engendering greater competition and better banking services.
Mozambique now has nine financial institutions operating within a majority privately-owned sector,
including seven commercial banks, one leasing company and one cooperative bank. Nevertheless,
the costs of banking activities remain high and obstacles to financial intermediation remain. These
include limited availability of collateral, the small number of clients with proper accounting, and
deficiencies in the judiciary system. As a result, real interest rates and interest rate spreads still
remain high, albeit declining. While the reform of the financial sector is far from complete, recent
trends indicate that more and better financial services are being offered to the banking public.
27.   With an increasing number of participants, central bank oversight of the banking sector has
become critical to ensure the continuing overall health of the financial system and macroeconomic
stability. Several donors are assisting the Bank of Mozambique (BM) in its efforts to strengthen on-
and off-site supervision. Annual on-site inspections of all banks operating in Mozambique will
continue to be carried out and, starting in 1999, banks will be required to publish half-yearly
financial statements. BM is more closely monitoring commercial banks' lending portfolios,
exposure limits, overdraft, rediscount and refinancing facilities, as well as foreign exchange
operations.



9
28.   The privatization of the two large public banks, low inflation, and entry of new financial
institutions have created the basic preconditions for a further deepening of the financial system. The
Central Bank will phase in indirect monetary control instruments gradually. While it is too early for
a shift into indirect controls as the primary method for imolementing monetary policy, the
Government is establishing the cornerstones for the development of these instruments, namely,
improved cash management at Treasury and coordination with the Central Bank, and continued
emphasis on banking supervision. For instance, efforts are being focused on the development of a
framework for forecasting changes in excess reserves and for actively managing the level of excess
reserves through open market operations and increased use of the Treasury bill market.
Simultaneously, quarterly net domestic assets ceilings for individual banks have been made
indicative only and consideration will be given to shifting the semi-annual net domestic asset
ceilings to an indicative basis as well. The BM is prepared to place and discount central bank or
Treasury bills as required by its policy stance. Reliance on direct measures is expected to decline as
the development of financial markets increases the efficiency of monetary policy.
(c) Public Administration Reform
29.   Another aspect of the Government's effort to strengthen public administration is civil
service reform. This involves reclassification of career streams, revision of the compensation
system, decompression of salaries, and increased training. The new  career streams and
compensation structure will be fully implemented by April 1999; they are intended to make
Government employment, particularly at senior levels, more competitive with comparable jobs in
the private sector and help the Government attract and retain qualified staff.  Salaries were
decompressed in April 1998 from a ratio of highest to lowest salary from 9.6:1 to 13:1. Further
salary decompression, bringing the ratio to 17:1, is planned for April 1999. Also, non-wage
incentives will be given to employees to work in the provinces, as part of an overall strategy to
improve the delivery of social services in rural areas, strengthen local administration, and prepare
the way for the creation of local government assemblies.
B.    Privatization and Private Sector Development
30.   Mozambique's development strategy is premised on private sector-led growth.  The
Government is now completing a strong privatization program, and efforts in the sector will now
increasingly focus on removing impediments to and establishing the legal and regulatory
environment for competitive private sector development. All large enterprises in the Government's
privatization program (those on the privatization list of the Technical Unit for Enterprise
Restructuring) have been brought to the point of sale, with the exception of EMOSE, the national
insurance company, and LAM, the national airline, which will be converted into limited liability
companies by mid-1999. All small and medium-size enterprises are expected to be privatized by
mid-1999. By the end of the privatization program in mid-1999, the government will have
privatized about 88 large and 1,170 small and medium-size enterprises. The remaining public



10
enterprises after the current privatization program is completed are mainly utilities (electricity,
telecommunications, water), and those involved in transport (airport authority, railways and ports,
and Maputo bus transport), importation and distribution of petroleum products, news reporting
(radio and television), dredging, and energy (hydrocarbons). The Government's objective is to make
these entities function as commercial enterprises, through concessioning on long-term leases,
demonopolization, and privatization of management. Concessioning of all railway company and
port terminals is advancing and is expected to be completed by end-1999. Management of the five
major urban water companies is to be privatized by mid-1999. A study on options for the
telecommunications sector is expected to be completed in 1998, following which the Government
will decide an appropriate course of action. A law to allow private participation in the energy sector
was approved in June 1997. A public enterprise monitoring unit has been set up at the Ministry of
Planning and Finance and will oversee Government participation in private sector enterprises, as
well as the remaining state-owned enterprises.
31.   Mozambique inherited a bureaucratic and cumbersome legal and administrative framework,
which is a combination of outdated pre-independence laws and regulations, and the legal framework
developed during the administrative-command system of central planning. This imposes high
administrative costs on companies. The "Red Tape" study, conducted by FIAS in 1996, and four
Private Sector Conferences, held annually in Maputo since 1995, have highlighted specific areas of
needed changes. In 1997, the Government adopted an action plan aimed at removing unnecessary
administrative barriers to investment and facilitating entry into productive and commercial
activities. During 1998 and 1999, the Government will be implementing key measures, including
simplification of procedures for company registration and for granting commercial and trading
licenses, introduction of copyright legislation and of arbitration mechanisms to settle commercial
disputes, and the revision of the Commercial Law, the Industrial Law and the Commercial Code.
C.   Human Development and Poverty Reduction
32.   The Government's medium-term social objectives are consistent with the social objectives
of the HIPC debt relief initiative. The medium-term goal is to improve poverty indicators to levels
that at least match the average of sub-Saharan African countries. The Government's program
emphasizes ensuring that adequate provision is made in the budget for recurrent health and
education expenditures, that these sectors' budgets are executed as programmed, and that
effectiveness of expenditures is improved through the development of multi-donor, integrated,
sector expenditure programs and outcome-oriented budgeting.
33.   An integrated Health Sector Recovery Program is under implementation, and an education
sector expenditure program is being finalized. The health program focuses on: (a) increasing access
to and the quality of health care through the rehabilitation and construction of first-level care
facilities and rural hospitals, the provision of adequate medical supplies and pharmaceuticals, and
the support of the nutrition program for severely malnourished children; (b) improving institutional
and management capacity at the Ministry of Health, at both the central and provincial levels; and,
(c) developing human resources through training of health workers and enhancement of university
medical training. Regarding the education program, a draft sector strategy on which the program



11
will be based, Plano Estrategico da EducaVdo, has been comipleted in 1998 along with a public
expenditure review for the sector. The program will support an expansion of the school network to
increase access to primary and secondary education, and will promote greater participation of girls
and people living in under-served regions. The progress andi impact of the program are being
measured against specific targets and actions.
34.   The Department of Population and Social Development, in the Ministry of Planning and
Finance, is responsible for integrating poverty issues in the planning and policy making processes.
With peace and the ensuing recovery in agriculture, emergency assistance is being phased out and
the remaining safety nets are being restructured to improve cost-effectiveness and the targeting of
benefits. The first national household survey was recently completed. The household survey will
provide the basis for the National Poverty Assessment and a Poverty Action Plan by end- 1998.
D.   Medium-Term Prospects and External Financing Requirements
35.   Medium-term macroeconomic prospects for Mozambique assume political stability and
continued commitment to the implementation of the reform program. Broad-based growth is
expected over the medium-term, reaching 7 percent in 1998 and 1999 (excluding large projects in
energy and mineral processing). Export prospects are good, with export growth expected broadly in
line with GDP growth. The country's external position may show some volatility over the near
future, as construction of large, lumpy investments takes off. Early estimates indicate that the
external account deficit may worsen in 1998, with first quarter imports increasing over 10 percent
over the same period in 1997. This increase in imports maty already reflect the start of large
investment projects, such as Mozal, as well as increased demand for imports resulting from the real
effective appreciation of the metical through early 1998. In 1998, exports are expected to grow as a
share of GDP, although not as rapidly as imports. Concessional assistance is expected to continue
to play a significant role in Mozambique's economic development. For 1998, external financing
requirements will amount to about US$1.8 billion, including rescheduling of arrears and current
maturities on debt to the Russian Federation and other non-Paris Club bilateral creditors, and on the
private commercial debt of Cahora Bassa. For 1999, the required amount is expected to decline to
about US$1.4 billion. Private sector financing is expected to continue increasing, reflecting
increased confidence in the economy. Financing gaps before ]IIPC assistance of US$606 million
and US$570 million are projected for 1998 and 1999, respectively, and are expected to be covered
by multilateral and bilateral grants and credits, including this operation. A Consultative Group
meeting took place in September 1998, and provided indications that the external financing needs
for 1998 and 1999 would be fully met by multilateral and bilateral grants and credits, including this
operation.
III. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A.   Rationale for the Operation and Link with HIPC RefDrm Agenda
36.   The proposed Economic Management Reform operation builds on the progress achieved in



12
stabilizing and jump-starting the country's post-war economy. It would support Mozambique's
overall adjustment program and specifically assist in the implementation of the reforms highlighted
under the HIPC initiative for Mozambique. Assuming continued implementation of a favorable
macroeconomic framework, the proposed operation would focus on reforms aimed at improving the
sustainability and efficiency of public sector operations, with a special focus on fiscal reform, and
improving the business environment for sustained, private-sector led growth.
37.   The Bank has supported Mozambique since the early stages of the reform program in 1987
with five adjustment credits.3  Two Economic Rehabilitation credits and the first Economic
Recovery Credit supported the basic reforms that eased import controls and started liberalizing the
price regime, even prior to the end of war. The Second and Third Economic Recovery Credits
supported the reforms undertaken during the post-conflict stage from 1992 to 1997. The proposed
EMR operation would build on satisfactory implementation of reforms under the previous credits
and would support the implementation of key reforms agreed to in the Policy Framework Paper for
1998-2000. It complements the third annual ESAF program approved by the IMF Board in August
1998. The proposed operation was explicitly designed to support the reform agenda as outlined in
the Final HIPC Document for Mozambique of March 31, 1998 and would also provide interim debt
relief in the context of the HIPC initiative.
B.   Link to the CAS and Poverty Impact
38.   The Bank's latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mozambique was discussed by the
Board in December 1997. The CAS supports the Government's program for poverty reduction
through sustainable economic growth, emphasizing support to rural areas where most of the poor
live. The CAS' strategic priorities aim at: (i) promoting rapid, broad-based private sector-led
growth -- by supporting the macroeconomic reform agenda, supporting high potential growth
sectors, creating a "business-friendly environment", and improving environmental management and
assessment; (ii) building capacity and developing human resources -- by increasing Mozambican
participation in the private sector, supporting public sector reform and decentralization, and
increasing the coverage and quality of health and education services; and (iii) strengthening
development partnerships -- by reinforcing the Bank Group/Government partnership, forging closer
links with other aid partners, strengthening ties with civil society, including non-governmental
organizations and the private sector, promoting regional partnerships, and ensuring coordination
within the Bank Group. By supporting reforms aimed at improving the sustainability and efficiency
of the public sector, this operation focuses directly on the first two priorities of the CAS. The
operation is expected to benefit the poor through its emphasis on fiscal reform and on ensuring the
sustained financing of priority social sector expenditures, such as health and education.
3 Table I, Annex I, summarizes the reforms undertaken under previous adjustment operations.



13
C.    Operation Components
(i) Revenue Mobilization and the Incentive Regime
39.   Tax and Trade Policy.  The proposed EMR operation will support the Government's
comprehensive medium-term tax system reform. The main goals are three-fold: (i) to reduce the
tax-induced distortions by moving towards a system of taxation that will interfere less with the
efficient allocation of resources; (ii) to improve the efficiency of taxation; and (iii) to identify
institutional changes that will improve the quality of tax administration. Specifically, during 1998
and 1999 the Government will: (i) lower the top import duty rate from 35 to 30 percent; (ii)
effectively put exporters on a free trade basis, by maintaining low duty rates on raw materials,
intermediates and capital goods; (iii) replace the cascading turnover tax and the consumption tax
with a VAT plus selective excise taxes on a narrow range of products; (iv) continue implementing
the overhaul of customs administration; and, (v) undertake a comprehensive review of the tax
system, including the costs and benefits of special regimes in both trade and domestic taxes, with a
view to rationalizing them and limiting their use in the future.
40.   The next step of the indirect tax reform, which the proposed operation would support, is the
introduction of the VAT plus a selective excise tax, to replace the turnover and consumption taxes.4
The planned VAT is broad based, covering services such, as electricity, transportation, and
telecommunications. The main proposed exemptions include public medical services and drugs;
non-profit activities; agriculture and fishing (producers can opt to have their activities taxed, in
which case they would be eligible to receive VAT refunds); and firms with sales of less than Mt 50
million per year. Exports will be zero rated. A simplified regime is proposed for firms with sales
from Mt 50-100 million/year, as these are not expected to have the organized accounting records
essential for the normal application of the tax. Such firms will pay a tax of 5 percent on the volume
of sales, with no deduction for taxes paid on inputs, on a quarterly basis. It is expected that a single
VAT rate of 17 percent will be applied. The scope of the consumption tax will be narrowed to
cover products whose consumption is considered to have negative effects on health and the
environment (tobacco and alcoholic beverages), passenger moltor vehicles, as well as a few luxury
items. Petroleum products are subject to a separate tax. Products are to be taxed ad valorem, at
rates between 20 and 75 percent.
41.   The proposed operation would also support the Government's efforts aimed at further
liberalizing and rationalizing the trade regime. During the 1996 trade reforn, the Government was
unable to reduce the top import duty further due to revenue considerations. Improved efficiency of
duty collections that resulted from strengthened customs administration and the reduction in
exemptions now allow for a reduction in the top duty rate from 35 to at least 30 percent, thus
reducing the average duty rate from the current 11 percent to around 9 percent, as well as the
dispersion in the tariff. The duty rates on raw materials, capital goods, and intermediate goods
(classes M, K, and I in the tariff) will remain unchanged at 2.5, 5, and 7.5 percent, respectively. In
4Planned indirect tax reforms (replacement of the turnover tax with a VAT plus the narrowing of the consumption tax)
are expected to be revenue neutral.



14
the coming year, the Government will also consider further reductions in the top duty rate as well as
the elimination of import surcharges, which apply to four lines of the tariff, and rectification of
remaining misclassifications.
42.   Specific measures that the operation would support include: (i) definition of VAT coverage,
adoption of the VAT rate, and issuance of Council of Ministers' decree creating the VAT Code
(completed by negotiations); (ii) replacing the turnover tax with a VAT (Condition of Second
Tranche release); (iii) replacing the consumption tax with a narrower set of excises, Imposto sobre
Consumos Especificos (Condition of Second Tranche release); (iv) reducing the top import duty rate
for finished (consumer) goods from 35 percent to 30 percent (Condition of Second Tranche release).
The proposed operation would support the Government's plans to undertake an overall assessment
of the tax system including the role of different tax instruments and tax incentives for new
investments, namely, those currently provided under the Investment Law, the Industrial-Free Zone
Law, and the Zambezi Valley Regime.
43.   Customs Reform  and Import Administration.  The Government is continuing to
strengthen customs administration and removing red tape in the import process.  Important
milestones in the customs reform program for 1998 and 1999 include: (i) customs restructuring,
where a program of training, computerization, procedural review, and reorganization has already
started and will be completed in 1999; and (ii) reconciliation of import taxes due and paid, including
information on revenue foregone due to exemption regimes.
44.   The restructuring of customs administration now requires the rationalization of the import
process. The Government has introduced two key simplifications in import administration
procedures, which this operation would support: (i) adoption of a streamlined registration
mechanism for importers (completed as Condition of Board Presentation), instead of the
previous annual registration according to 21 import classes (each subdivided into several
categories); the new system requires just one general registration issued by the Ministry of Industry,
Commerce and Tourism. The new registration will be renewable yearly, against a flat fee, for each
importer in good standing (particularly with the tax authorities) with no restrictions as to the types
of goods that can be imported; (ii) replacement of the current import documentation (Boletim
de Registo de Importacao, Clean Report of Findings, and Despacho Aduaneiro) with a Single
Administrative Document (SAD) (completed as Condition of Board Presentation). These
simplifications will permit increasing transparency of the system as well as reducing the time,
complexity, and therefore the costs, of the current system. In this context, procurement rules will
apply only to imports financed by donors that so require.
(ii) Expenditure Management and Budgetary Reform
45.   The proposed operation would support critical elements of the Government's ongoing
Expenditure Management Reform Strategy.5 In particular, the operation will support improvements
5 The policy changes are also being supported by parallel institutional capacity building programs, namely the Fiscal
Management Review and the Financial Sector Capacity Building Project, both of which are being supported by IDA, as
well as technical assistance support from ASDI, GTZ, UNDP, SDC, and DFID.



15
in: (i) budgetary management; (ii) sustainability and prioritization of Government resources; and
(iii) accountability and transparency of budgeting.
46.   Budgetary Management. The Government is putting into place a computerized
management system that will allow it to better monitor budgetary allocations relative to the
programmed budget, also taking into account mandated budget alterations during the course of the
year. The system will establish routines and procedures for intra-annual budgetary management
utilizing the new computerized system. After implementing the system centrally in 1998, an
assessment will be made of the viability of implementing it at the provincial level. By June 1999,
the Government plans to identify those budgetary flows which are currently off-budget and develop
mechanisms for their inclusion in the budget. Furthermore, a detailed analysis of all expenditures
currently classified as investment expenditures is being carried out so as to identify recurrent
expenditures incorrectly classified in the investment budget and to include them in the recurrent
budget, commencing in fiscal year 1999.
47.   Specific milestones in the Government's reform prograrn that the proposed operation would
support include: (i) identification of off-budget flows (expenditures and revenues in fiscal year
1998) and classification according to defined criteria, including function, size, origin, and
statutory/legal basis (Condition of Second Tranche release); (ii) identification of recurrent
expenditures currently in the investment budget (based on the fiscal year 1999 budget) and
formulation of a methodology for their correct reclassification as recurrent expenditures in
future budgets (Condition of Second Tranche release).
48.   Sustainability of Expenditures. In order to ensure sustainability of public expenditures,
the Government is developing a five-year medium term fiscal framework, which will aggregate
planned sectoral expenditure programs within a framework consistent with the medium term
available resources. Improved integration of the processes of macroeconomic planning and
expenditure programming will tie more closely the prograrnming of revenue generation and
financing with that of expenditure planning. The medium term fiscal framework will be formulated
on a rolling basis each year, to serve as an input into its annual budgeting exercise. The framework
will be presented annually prior to the budget preparation cycle to the Conselho Econ6mico
(Cabinet Economic Subcommittee), starting with a submission in September 1998. Furthermore,
the framework will be utilized to set sectoral budget limits at the beginning of the budget
preparation cycle.
49.   The Government is also moving to link budgeting decisions to outcomes defined by policy.
The process of developing the fiscal framework at the sectoral level is aimed at linking the costs of
expenditure programs to the activities and results that they are supposed to deliver. This will
represent a fundamental change in the manner in which budget allocations are made, from an
incremental budgeting system across all ministries, to one in which expenditure allocations will be
made on the basis of defined sector expenditure programs aimed at delivering on agreed sectoral
objectives. In this, the Government will build on the work already undertaken at the sectoral level.
This includes sectors which either have sector expenditure programs in place (health, roads) or are
in the process of designing them and putting them into place (agriculture, education, water). In
support of these programs, the Government continues to be comimitted to expanding the share of the



16
social sectors in total spending, including in the locally-financed recurrent expenditures. In 1998,
the share of current expenditures for health and education is expected to have increased from 8 to 9
percent and 17.3 to 17.9 respectively relative to 1997. In real terms, this would represent an
increase of 20 percent in health and 16 percent in education. At the sectoral level, the Government
intends to utilize activity- and outcome-based budgeting for three pilot sectors, namely, agriculture,
education and health. These reforms are expected to directly bolster implementation of both the
CAS and HIPC social objectives.
50.   Specific milestones in the Government's reform program that the proposed operation would
support include: (i) formulation of a rolling five-year medium term fiscal framework (Cendrio
Econdmico de Medio Prazo) that links resource availability from the macro framework to a
sector-based expenditure framework, presented annually to the Conselho Economico (Cabinet
Economic Subcommittee), commencing in September 1998 (completed by negotiations); (ii)
submission to the National Assembly of a budget proposal for fiscal year 1999 consistent with
the medium-term fiscal framework, including increased shares of locally-financed recurrent
expenditures for health and education, relative to the fiscal year 1998 budget (completed by
negotiations).
51.   Accountability and Transparency. The Government is beginning to take steps to improve
its accounting system by improving reconciliation and further computerizing accounting.
Computerized systems will improve institutional performance and productivity in the collection,
processing, analysis and dissemination of information.  Moreover, as per the new Budget
Framework Law, the Government intends to close its accounts and present the annual Conta Geral
do Estado (State accounts) to the National Assembly, commencing with that for the 1998 budget (to
be presented by end- 1999). The Conta Geral do Estado will include all public institutions with all
their revenues and expenditures and all types of public financial transactions. Work is under way to
develop and adopt a new accounting system. By June 1999, the Government intends to examine
options and define the new system of public accounts as well as a timebound program for its
implementation.
D.   Specific Agreements under the Operation
52.   Prior to Second Tranche release, the Government will:
* Introduce VAT in replacement of the turnover tax; specifically, pursuant to the Decree
No 50/98, dated September 29, 1998, the Govermment will issue a notice informing the
public of the introduction of the Value Added Tax.
*  Introduce new consumption tax (Imposto sobre Consumos Especificos) on a narrow
range of products; specifically, pursuant to the Decree No 51/98, dated September 29,
1998, the Government will issue a notice informing the public of the introduction of the
new consumption tax (Imposto sobre Consumos Especificos).



17
*  Reduce top import duty rate from 35 to 30 percent; specifically, the Government will
issue a Decree stipulating the reduction of the import duty rate for consumption goods
from 35 to 30 percent.
* Produce and furnish to IDA a report which identifies off-budget flows (expenditures and
revenues in FY98) and classifies them according to defined criteria (e.g. function, size,
origin, and statutory/legal basis) so as to permit decision as to their future status
including incorporation into the budget.
* Produce and furnish to IDA a report which identifies recurrent expenditures now in the
investment budget (based on the FY99 budget) ancl formulates a methodology for their
correct reclassification as recurrent expenditures in future budgets.
E.    Operation Amount, Disbursement Procedures and Iimplementation Arrangements
53.   Amount and Tranching. The proposed operation of US$150 million will be disbursed in
two equal tranches, the first upon effectiveness and the second when all second tranche conditions
are satisfied, expected by mid-1999.  The program was designed to be "front-loaded". i.e.,
emphasizing actions taken prior to operation approval. The operation was also explicitly designed
to assist in the implementation of the specific reforms highlighted under the HIPC initiative for
Mozambique. The operation is in the form of a grant in order to provide interim debt relief under
that initiative.
54.   Disbursement Procedures.  The operation will follow  the Bank's new  simplified
disbursement procedures for structural adjustment operations. Under the revised procedures, the
Operation proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program. Upon effectiveness, the proceeds of the first tranche of the operation will be deposited by
IDA in an account at the Bank of Mozambique at the request of the Borrower. If, after deposit of
either of the two tranches in this account, the proceeds of the operation are used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Grant Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) return the
amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA. The
execution of this operation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
Although an audit of the deposit account will not be required, lhe Bank reserves the right to require
audits at any time.
55.   Impact Indicators. To monitor the proposed operation's impact on fiscal sustainability,
and growth, the following indicators will be monitored during supervision and included in the
implementation report: (i) inflation rate; (ii) effective rates of import duty collection; (iii) anti-
export bias; (iv) elapsed time for import application; and (v) export growth.
F.    Benefits and Risks
56.   This operation, designed to support explicit CAS and HIPC objectives, is part of a
continuing process of reform designed to consolidate a stable rnacroeconomic environment, sustain
growth and alleviate poverty. The operation is expected to contribute to the consolidation of
macroeconomic gains and to improve the sustainability and effectiveness of public sector services.



18
However, the proposed operation also involves risk in three areas. First, in spite of substantial
progress in institutional and managerial capacity, many capacity weaknesses remain which can slow
down execution or compromise the quality of reforms implemented. The complex process of VAT
implementation, for instance, has been delayed in the past. Second, resistance to changes in the tax
regime and further trade liberalization could face opposition from formal sector industrialists, some
of whom are bound to suffer from decreased protection. Strong resistance has been experienced
already in previous stages of the trade reform, namely from producers of consumer goods and the
cashew nut processing industry. Resistance might also be expected regarding the replacement of the
turnover tax with a VAT, which can be perceived as increasing the tax burden and administrative
demands on companies. The Government is doing a great deal to mitigate these risks by instituting
and actively carrying out systematic consultation with stakeholders and increasingly informing the
public about the need and benefits of reforms. Examples of this approach are the consultations on
trade reform and the ongoing public information campaign for the VAT. Third, parliamentary and
presidential elections are planned for 1999, therefore increasing the risks for slippage in
implementation of reforms perceived to be unpopular.  The Government has reiterated its
commitment to the adjustment program in general, including the HIPC reform agenda, and the
reforms supported through this operation in particular.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
57.   As of September 30, 1998, there were 16 ongoing IDA credits to Mozambique totaling about
US$698 million. About US$322 million remain undisbursed. IFC's total approved investments of
US$146 million include $76 million in loans, $5 million in equity, and $65 million in quasi-equity.
A MIGA guarantee of US$40 million was recently approved.
V.   COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
58.   Bank and Fund staff collaborate closely in designing and monitoring the macroeconomic
framework and the structural reform agenda. The Bank and the IMF have been working with the
authorities since the early stages of the adjustment program in Mozambique on the preparation of
successive Policy Framework Papers, and most recently on the preparation of the Debt
Sustainability Analysis and the Board documents for Mozambique's access to the HIPC debt
initiative. The latest annual ESAF arrangement was approved by the IMF Board on August 25, 1998
and the tenth PFP, which will guide the ongoing reform program from 1998-2000, was distributed
to the Bank and Fund Boards on August 11, 1998.



19
VI. RECOMMENDATIODN
59.   I am satisfied that the proposed operation would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstr6m
Washington, D.C.
November 17, 1998
Attachments



ANNEX A
Page 1 of 1
Mozambique Social Indicators
Latest single year               Same regionlincome group
Sub-
Saharan           Low
1970-75       1980-85       1990-96              Africa        income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             10.5          13.5          18.0               596.4         3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                   2.2           2.3           3.5                 2.7            1.8
Urban population (% of population)                 8.6          19.4          35.5                31.7           29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)            6.5           6.5           6.1                 5.6            3.2
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$) 11                                          150           110                 490            490
Consumer price index (1987=100)                                   27         3,109                 266            275
Food price index (1987=100)
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(,Y of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile
Highest quintile
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                               ..           4.6                  ..            1.5
Education (% of GNP)                                           4.2           6.3                 5.3            3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                                           51            40
Male                                                          56            45
Female                                                       47             35
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                             ..             9            32                  45             76
Urban                                           ..           82             17                 63              80
Rural                                           ..            2             40                 34              72
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                         39            71                  56             80
DPT                                                             29            57                  55             81
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                              ..            47
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            42             41            45                  52             63
Male                                           41            40             44                 51              62
Female                                         44            43             46                 54              64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                168           147           134                  91             68
Under 5 (perthousand live births)               281            285           214                 147             94
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                   498           468            431                448            231
Female (per 1,000 population)                 382           361            339                376            206
Maternal (per 100,000 ive births)                 ..           300         1,100                700
Source: World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM. World Bank and staff estimates.
11 For Mozambique, the national accounts source is the National Statistics Institute which in average is 30% higher than previous official figures from
the National Planning Commission.



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
Mozambique - Key Economic Indicators
Actuals      Estimate            Projected
Indicator               1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)'
Gross domestic product                  100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agricultureb                           27.1    28.5     27.7    27.7    27.2    26.4    24.5
Industryb                              20.5    21.1     21.7     19.9    19.5    19.2    19.0
Servicesb                              42.1    40.8    40.1      41.2    42.0    42.4    44.2
Net indirect taxes                     10.3     9.7     10.5    11.1    11.3    12.0    12.3
Total Consumption                        89.4    90.6     86.4    84.0    84.1    80.6    76.6
Gross domestic fixed                     36.1    30.1     29.5    35.2    41.0    40.6    40.1
investment
Government investment                  11.0     9.3     10.0      9.1      9.2      9.1      8.8
Private investment                     25.1    20.8     19.5    26.0    31.8    31.5    31.2
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)C                         21.0    20.8      18.2    18.9    19.2    18.8    22.3
Imports (GNFS)                          46.4    41.5      34.1    38.1    44.4    40.0    38.9
Gross domestic savings                   10.6     9.4     13.6    16.0    15.9    19.4    23.4
Gross national savingsd                  10.4     8.9     13.7    14.3    14.4    16.3    17.9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  1937   2301       2753    3093    3412    3763    4352
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per              100.0   110.0    130.0   150.0   160.0   170.0   200.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1995
prices)
Gross domestic product at             4.3%    7.1%    12.4%     9.1%     9.6%     6.9%    13.6%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                 7.6%    6.0%    13.1%     9.0%     9.6%     6.9%    13.5%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at             -0.5%    3.5%     9.4%     6.2%    6.8%     4.1%    10.7%
market prices
Total consumption                    -13.9%    3.9%     4.9%     4.6%    6.0%     0.8%     3.7%
Private consumption                   -9.7%    4.6%     3.2%     4.3%    6.1%     0.5%     3.6%
(ContinUied)



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
Mozambique - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actuals     Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)C                      406.9  479.3   499.7   584.8   656.0   708.1   968.5
Merchandise FOB                    174.3   226.1   221.0   291.8   343.3   370.8   604.6
Imports(GNFS)c                       899.2  954.7   937.4  1178.3  1513.6  1506.9  1691.4
Merchandise FOB                    727.0   782.6   760.0   980.5  1314.5  1302.8  1482.8
Resource balance                     -492.3  -475.4  -437.7  -593.5  -857.6  -798.9  -722.8
Net current transfers                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
(excluding capital official grants)
Current account balance             -337.6  -358.8  -263.1  -464.2  -652.2  -781.3  -781.4
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct            45.0    72.5    64.4   141.3   198.0   285.0   293.3
investment
Net long-term loans(scheduled)         18.8  166.1   120.1    66.6   184.7    66.7   137.7
Other capital (net, including        333.4  279.5   193.3   286.3   301.5   402.6   390.7
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves'                   -59.6  -159.3  -114.6   -30.0   -32.0    27.0   -40.3
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of               -25.4%  -20.7%   -15.9%   - 19.2%   -25.1%   -21.2%   -16.6%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1995 prices)
Merchandise exports                  -2.9%   31.0%    -4.4%   27.4%    13.5%    6.3%   35.2%
(FOB)
Merchandise imports                 -25.3%    8.2%     1.3%   27.2%    32.3%    -2.2%    12.4%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)f
Current revenues                       14.0    13.4    14.4    14.7    14.2    15.0    15.5
Current expenditures                   12.7    11.8    13.4    13.9    14.6    14.4    13.5
(Continued)



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
Mozambique - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actuals      Estimate            Projected
Indicator               1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Current account surplus (+)              1.3     1.6      1.0      0.8    -0.4       0.6     2.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                     17.2    14.2     15.2    14.3    14.0    13.8    13.4
Foreign financing                       16.9    14.2     16.1    13.6    14.4    13.2    11.4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market              28.6    22.9      23.3    23.4    23.4    23.4    23.6
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                        54.7    21.1     24.4    17.0    16.0    15.1    21.1
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/             139.4   171.2    152.0    99.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1995 =100)
Merchandise export price               95.9    95.0      97.1    100.6   104.3   106.0   108.2
index
Merchandise import price               134.3   133.7    128.2   130.0   131.7   133.4   135.1
index
Merchandisetermsoftrade                 71.4    71.1     75.8    77.4    79.2    79.5    80.1
index
Real exchange rate                      45.0    51.8     56.4    56.5    56.5    56.5    56.5
(US$/LCU)5
Real interest rates
Consumer price index'                 54.4%   44.6%     6.4%     3.3%     7.7%     6.0%    6.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator'                         52.0%   40.9%     8.8%     7.0%     5.8%     7.7%     5.6%
(% growth rate)
Source: Bank of Mozambique, National Statistics Institute, National Planning
Commission, IMF and staff estimates.
a. Based on national accounts prepared by the National Institute of Statistics (INE).
b. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
c. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
d. Includes net unrequired transfers excluding official capital grants.
e. Includes use of IMF resources.
f. Refers to Central Government.
g. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
Based in period average exchange rates.
h. Based on CPI and GDP deflator indices in 1995 prices.



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 1
Mozambique - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual          Estimate        Projected
Indicator                                    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
Total debt outstanding and                     8671    8911    9279   7432    7150   7051    7297   7637
disbursed (TDO) (US$m) a/
Net disbursements scheduled before debt relief   -34       4     152     140      76     171       11    109
(US$m) a/
Total debt service due after debt relief        265     301      227     128     196    242      282    289
on Naples terms(US$m) a/
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/XGS b/                                   2115    1912    1717    1319    1102    977       943      739
TDO/GDP                                        473     460    403      270     231     207      194     175
TDS/XGS                                         65      65      42      23      30       34      37      28
IBRD/IDA exposure indicators (%)
IDA TDO (US$m)d                                714     890    1015    1162    1309    1444    1566    1686
Source: Bank of Mozambique, IMF and staff estimates.
a/ Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b/"XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.



ANNEX D
Page 1 of 1
Mozambique- External Financing Requirements and Sources of Financing
(US$ million)
Actual         Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                         1995       1996        1997       1998       1999       2000
Total financing requirements                          787       1007       4919        1760       1405        1384
Current account deficit (excl. gran.s)                677        642         618        808       1099        1066
Amortization (incl. IMF)                              278        214         212        293        287         376
Changes in arrears (increase-)                       -189         65       3933         619           0          0
Changes in reserves (increase +)                       45        145         134         40          18        -57
Other Outflows                                        -24        -58          22          0           0          0
Total identified financing                            667        721         771        855       1103         981
Direct foreign investment                              45         73          64        141        198         285
Grants                                                339        283        355         344        447         285
Balance of payments support                          92          82        127        107         235         84
Project financing                                   160        150         174        181         184        184
Other support a/                                     88          51         54         56          28         17
Loans                                                 282        366        352         369        458        412
Official creditors                                  235        289         262        262         198        180
Multilateral                                      217         288        262         262        198        180
of which: IDA                                    175        220         148        150         100        150
Balance of payments support b/               100         114         48         50           0         50
Project financing                             75         106        100        100         100        100
of which: IMF                                      0         18          35         34          17          0
Bilateral and other                                 18           2          0          0           0          0
Commercial                                           48          76         90        107         260        232
Debt relief c/                                        121        286       4148         237        109           0
Remaining gap d/                                        0          0           0        669        193        403
Source: Bank of Mozambique. IMF and staff estimates.
a/ Includes food aid. special programs and non food emergency aid.
b/ For 1999. IDA adjustment lending (US$150 million) is in Grants as part of IDA's interim measures under HIPC.
c/ Includes only concluded agreements; in 1996, debt relief includes US$286 million in arrears and current obligations falling due
to Paris Club creditors and Brazil: in 1997.1998, and 1999, debt relief includes US$211 million, US$229 million, and US$100.6
million respectively, in current obligations falling due to Paris Club creditors and Brazil. Some HIPC assistance is also included
in 1998 (US$7.4million) and in 1999 (US$8.4million).
d/ For operational purposes only. financing gaps are assumed to be covered by a stock of debt operation on Naples terms on
non Paris Club bilateral debt in mid-1997, except for Russia, for which a concessionality of 90 percent in present value terms
is assumed. Includes expected assistance under the HIPC initiative. It also assumes rescheduling of the private Cahora Bassa
hydropower project debt in mid 1997 including payments equivalent to 75 percent of export proceeds, starting in 1998.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Operations Portfolio
As of 04-Nov-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 15
Active Projects
MZ-PE-39015      1998   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE           NATIONAL WATER I                          0.00       36.00         0.00              35.12          .81         0.00
MZ-PE-1792       1996   GOVT                               HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                       0.00       98.70         0.00              81.83        44.21         0.00
MZ-PE-1780       1994   GOVT                               GAS ENGINEERING(ENGY                      0.00       30.00         0.00              11.15         7.35         0.00
MZ-PE-1804       1994   GOVERNMENT                         2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                       0.00      188.00         0.00              96.66        52.90         0.00
MZ-PE-1811       1994   GOM                                FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC                      0.00         9.00        0.00               4.69         3.92         0.00
MZ-PE-1791       1993   GOVT                               LOCAL GOVERNMENT  EN                      0.00       23.20         5.02               8.12        12.99         5.58
MZ-PE-1796       1993   GOVERNMENT                         RURAL REHABILITATION                      0.00       20.00         0.00               7.47         6.71         0.00
MZ-PE-1797       1993   GOM                                CAPACITY BUILDING(HU                      0.00       48.60         0.00              24.63        22.63         0.00
MZ-PE-1801       1993   GOVERNMENT                         FOOD SECURITY                             0.00         6.30        1.25               1.78         2.76          .76
MZ-PE-1802       1993   GOVERNMENT                         MAPUTO CORRIDOR                           0.00         9.30        0.00               3.51         3.34         3.34
MZ-PE-1810       1993   GOM                                LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC                      0.00        15.50        2.93               2.07         4.97          .57
MZ-PE-1781       1992   GOVT.                              AGR.SER. REHAB.                           0.00        35.00       12.30              10.25        16.28          .60
MZ-PE-1790       1992   GOVT OF MOZAMBIQUE                 FIRST ROAD & COASTAL                      0.00        74.30        0.00              20.75        18.14         0.00
MZ-PE-1776       1991   GOVT                               EDUCATION II                              0.00        53.70        0.00               4.64         2.93         2.93
MZ-PE-1784       1990   GOVT                               INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRIS                      0.00        50.10        0.00              15.64         9.46         6.44
Total                                                                                                0.00      697.70        21.50             328.31       209.40        20.22
Active Projects       closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   360.30              962.20             1,322.50
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 4.73                4.73
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   676.20              914.79             1,590.99
Amount sold                                         0.00                 0.00                0.00
of which repaid               :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               328.31                2.38               330.69
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Oct-98.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



ANNEX F
Page 2 of 2
Mozambique
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                   Polana Hotel             1.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                   AEF Bonar                .26    0.00    0.00    0.00       .26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   AEF Cahora Bassa         .21    0.00    0.00    0.00       .21    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   BIM                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   Caju Mocita             3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   Agrimo                  2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   MOZAL                   55.00    0.00   65.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   SEF CPZ                  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   SEF CTOX                  .73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    64.13    5.00   65.00    0.00    8.40    5.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                   AEF AFRISTEM              .57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   AEF EMPRESA              1.36    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   BIM                     10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   BIM-INVEST              0.00      .30    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF JOAO JAMAL            .24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   SEF ROBEIRA               .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           12.36     .30    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 11/12/98



ANNEX F
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM GRANT
SUPPLEMENTARY GRANT DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                7 months
(b)   Operation prepared by:                Minisitry of Planning and Finance;
Bank of Mozambique; Ministry of
Industry, Commerce and Tourism
(c)   Project Preparation:                  April 1998
(d)   Appraisal mission:                    June-July 1998
(e)   Negotiations:                         October 1998
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:        Januaiy 1999
Previous Adjustment Operations
Second Rehabilitation Credit (FY88, Cr. 1841)
Third Rehabilitation Credit (FY89, Cr. 2021)
Economic Recovery Credit (FY92, Cr. 2384)
Second Economic Recovery Credit (FY94, Cr. 2628)
Second Tranche Release Memorandum, July 1995
Third Tranche Release Memorandum, October 1996
Third Economic Recovery Credit (FY97, Cr. NO10)
Second Tranche Release Memorandum, March 1998



ANNEX G
Page 1 of 2
The Reform Agenda Supported by the EMRO:
Matrix of Actions
Policy Area   Condition                                           Status
A. Revenue Mobilization and the Incentive Regime
1. Domestic Taxation
a. Define VAT coverage (including exemptions), adopt  Condition Fulfilled
VAT rate; Council of Ministers will issue decree creating
the VAT Code
b. Introduce VAT in replacement of the turnover tax  Condition of Second
Tranche release
c. Introduce new consumption tax (Imposto sobre    Condition of Second
Consumos Especificos) on a narrow range of products  Tranche release
2. Trade Regime
a. Reduce top import duty rate from 35 to 30 percent  Condition of Second
Tranche release
b. Replace current import documentation (Boletim de  Condition Fulfilled
Registo de Importaq o, Clean Report of Findings and
Despacho Aduaneiro) with a Single Administrative
Document
c. Streamline importer registration procedures and  Condition Fulfilled
eliminate importer categories (as listed in Diploma
Ministerial 17/91 of the Ministry of Commerce and
Diploma Ministerial 21/91 of the Ministries of Commerce
and Finance).



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 2
Policy Area   Condition                                           Status
B. Expenditure Management and Budgetary Reform
1. Budgetary Management
a. Identify off-budget flows (expenditures and revenues in  Condition of Second
FY98) and classify according to defined criteria (e.g.  Tranche release
function, size, origin, and statutory/legal basis) so as to
permit decision as to their future status including
incorporation into the budget.
b. Identify recurrent expenditures now in the investment   Condition of Second
budget (based on the FY99 budget) and formulate a  Tranche release
methodology for their correct reclassification as recurrent
expenditures in future budgets.
2. Sustainability and Prioritization of Expenditures
a. Complete formulation of a rolling five-year medium  Condition Fulfilled
term expenditure framework (Cendrio Econ6mico de
Mddio Prazo) and present to the Conselho Econ6mico.
b. Submit to National Assembly a budget proposal iFor  Condition Fulfilled
FY99 consistent with the medium term expenditure
framework, including increased shares of locally-financed
recurrent expenditures for health and education, relative to
FY98 budget.



ANNEX H
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Several indicators of economic performance will be used to asses this operation.
These relate to economic outcomes rather than the agreed policy and institutional changes
themselves. Outcome indicators will be reviewed during supervision and after the
operation has been completed, which expected in mid-1999. Given that the reform
program supported by this operation and disbursements are expected to occur over a
relatively short period of time (less than one year), monitoring of these indicators will
continue over the medium run.
To monitor the proposed operation's impact on fiscal sustainability and growth,
the following indicators will be monitored during supervision and included in the
implementation report:
* Inflation rate
* Effective rate of import duty collection
* Anti-export bias
* Elapsed time for processing import applications
* Export growth



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
Mozambique at a glance                                                                       11,12g8
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   Saharan      Low-
Mozambique      Africa  income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                               18.5        614    2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atas method, USS) I/                           130        500      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               2.4        309      722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                                 4.2        2.7       2.1 
Labor force (%)                                                3.3        2.6       2.3     GNP              >              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                       capRa                        enrollment
Poverty (% of populabon below nabonal poverty line)
Urban population (% of total populahon)                         36         32       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                45         52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                       134         91       68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                      47                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                          32         45       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 151)                             60         43       47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populahon)             60         75       91                     Mozambique
Male                                                          70         82      100                     Low-income group
Female                                                        50         67       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS Il
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                     ..      4.2        2.3       2.8
Gross domestic investmentGDP                                   7.0       30.1      29.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              3.5       20.8      18.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                     -3.5       9.4      13.6
Gross national savingslGDP 2/                                  -3.9       8.9      13.7
Current account balancelGDP 21                               -14.6      -27.9    -22.4      Domestic                      I
Interest payments paid after rescheduling/GDP                  0.7        2.6       1.9     Savings                       Investment
Total debt after reschedulinglGDP                             78.1      403.3    270.0
Total debt service after debt relieflexports                  40.8       47.4      25.7
Present value of debt after reschedulinglGDP                             77.4      30.8
Present value of debt after rescheduling/exports 31                    1780.9    847.1
Indebtedness
1976486 1987-97     1996       1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          -5.8     4.1      7.1       12.4       9.6                    Mozambique
GNP per capia                               -8.9      0.9      6.1       10.2       6.8                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services               -16.2    17.3     18.6        2.7      16.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   41.1       31.5      31.0
Industry                                                      15.0       23.3     24.3      20.
Manufacturing                                                            8.0      9.5      os\
Services                                                      43.9       45 2      44.8      0
Private consumption                                           88.0       81.6      76.0     -95
General govemment consumption                                 15.5        8.9      10.4                     GOi           DP
Imports of goods and services                                 14.0       41.5      34.1
1976-86   1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                    0.9       10.9       8.4    40
Industry                                                       0.7       13.3     22.7    30
Manufacturing                                                           14.7     33.4    20
Services                                                       9.0        3.3       7.6    10t
Private consumption                                  -7.1      0.1        8.2       6.0
General govemment consumption                        -4.9     -50         2.2      23.6    -10     92   93   94         s s  97
Gross domestic investment                            -1.6       7.8      -71       13.9   -20
Imports of goods and services                        -8.2     -0.3        2.2      -0.9            -Exports  -_--O-mports
Gross national product                               -6.5       4.1       9.8      13.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with is income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/ World Bank GNP per capia Guidelines for 1998 show US$90, which was based on previous official national accounts from the
National Planning Commission(CNP). All GDP references in this table refer to official data from the National Institute of Statistics (INE),
which in average is 30% higher in nominal terms than the previous source.
2/ Excluding capital ofricial grants.  3/ As percent of 3 year moving average of exports, including private debt.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996     1997      Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            80
Consumer prces (annual average)                         40.5      44.6       6.4      60
Implicit GDP deflator 1/                                12.7      40.9       878 40
Government finance                                                                   20
(%'of GDP) I/                                                                         o 
Current revenue                                         12.9       13.4      14.4             92    93    94    95    9s    97
Current budget balance                                 -11.8        1.6       1.0             -     GDP deflator -O--CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                                -17.2      -12.6    -14.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      79        226       221      971
Cashew                                         35       17        45        31      832
Prawn                                          12       38        80        77      694
Manufactures                                   --        -          7        8      050 5J
Total imports (cif)                                     500        783       760      4     ;|
Food                                            .                 29        30      277.II I   )
Fuel and energy                                 .        .        78        78      139~ .. 
Capital goods                                  ..        .       170       154       0                            I   i li
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      97         99       101           91   92   93   94   95   95   97
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..      82        100        95                  Exports     iti Imports
Terms of trad e  1.995=f 10)                     .      118        '       106                                             _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                           148        479       500       o
Imports of goods and services                           593        955       937     -, . 91   92   93   94   95   99   97
Resource balance                                 ..   -445        -475      -438     -1'
-15
Net income                                       ..    -178       -166      -180      -20
Net current transfers                            .        0          0         0      .20
*20
Current account balance                                 -622      -642      -618      -32.
Financing items (net)                                   646        801       732      4
Changes in net reserves                          ..    -24        -159      -115      ,50
Memo:
Gross Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      .      66        383       532
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)               30.2     40.4   11,293.8  11.545.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 [US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed 21          0    3,319      9,279     7,432
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0       30      1,076     1,160                                B 1.160
Total debt service 21                            0       81        227       122          F: 1.913                    C 189
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0        1          7         9
0 462
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..      213        283       355
Official creditors 31                          0      325        197       176
Private creditors                              0       48         76        69
Foreign direct investment                      ..       2         73        64
Portfolio equity                               -
E 3.708
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0          0       100     A- IBRD                        E - Blaterci
Disbursements                                  o       23        221       148     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Prncipal repayments                            0        1          1         7     c - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      0       22        220       141           _
Interest payments                              o        0          7         8
Net transfers                                  0       22        213       133
Source: Development Economics, World Bank and staff estimates.                                                         11112/98
1/ All GDP references in this table refer to official data from the National Institute of Statistics (INE), which is in average 30% higher
than the previous source from the Natiorl Planning Commisssion (CNP).
2/ After Naples terms rescheduling.  Y
3/ Including IMF. For 1996 and 1997 is equal to scheduled disbursements minus actual amortization payments.



ANNEX J
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLICA DE MOCAMBIQUE
MINISTERIO DO PLANO E FINANCAS
GABINETE DO MINISTRO
No 757/GM/MNPF/98
Maputo, November 11, 1998
James D. Wolfensohn, President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Re:   Letter of Development Policy for the Economic ranagement Reform
Operation
1.   This is to request a grant from the International Development Association in the
context of the HIPC interim measures for Mozambique in an amount of US$150 million to
continue supporting the Government of Mozambique's reform program, now underway
since 1987. The policies and measures described below are consistent with the Policy
Framework Paper for 1998-2000. They are important components of the adjustment
program summarized in the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Final Document for
Mozambique of March 31, 1998.



ANNEX J
Page 2 of 9
Progress in Economic Performance
2.   I am pleated to report very good progress under the reform program of the
Government. Real GDP growth (based on the revised national accounts) has been 7.1%
in 1996, and 12.4% in 1997, and we expect that it will be around 10% in 1998. Growth
has been broad based, with transportation, agriculture (including small-scale farming), and
more recently industry showing particularly encouraging outcomes. Furthermore, inflation
has been drastically reduced, from over 60% in 1994, to 45% in 1996, and 6.4% in 1997.
We expect a similar result for 1998.
3.   These good results have been made possible, as you are aware, by the structural
reforms we have implemented and our efforts towards macroeconomic stabilization.
Peace and resettlement of rural populations, as well as good weather have, of course, been
the sine qua non conditions for the resumption of growth. During this period, we have
continued to enjoy strong financial and technical support from the international
community.
4.  The most important structural reforms have now been completed. In particular,
commercial banks are now all majority privately owned and the financial sector has
become more diversified. Nine private financial institutions are now active in the country.
No lending institution is in Government hands. I am aware of the potential threats to a
financial sector which is still young and with limited experience in some of its components.
This is why the Government, together with the Central Bank, has undertaken to strengthen
significantly banking supervision, as provided for in the Second and Third Economic
Recovery Credits. We feel that the supervisory unit in the Central Bank is now reaching
the point where quantitatively and qualitatively it can effectively fulfill its responsibilities.
5.   All large public enterprises in the Government's divestiture program will have been
privatized by end 1998, with the exception of the airline company (LAM), which is being
reorganized, and the insurance company (EMOSE), which will be made a limited liability
company. At the same time, concessioning of the services of CFM-South, the ports and
railways company, is under negotiations with private parties. Bidding processes and the
evaluation of bids for CFM-north and CFM-center are expected to be completed by
September 1999. It has been part of the Government's privatization policy to ensure that
some share of the capital of privatized entities will be transferred to individual
shareholders, mainly workers in the relevant enterprises. Finally, the few small- and
medium-size firms still in the public sector will have been privatized by mid 1999.
6.   Stabilization efforts have been successful in reducing inflation as noted above.
Monetary policy has been conducted within the confines of prudent management, as per
our understandings with the IMF and the Bank. Thus, monetary expansion (M2) was
brought down from a maximum of almost 80% in 1993 to less than 25% expected for
1998. Concomitantly, the nominal exchange rate has stabilized. The Government is



ANNEX J
Page 3 of 9
monitoring closely and adapting its monetary policy to recent developments in the region,
as they can affect the Mozambican economy via, among other means, the exchange rate.
While much progress has been achieved, the Government continues to be concerned and
committed to addressing the fiscal imbalances that still remain.. The government budget
deficit before grants is down to 18%, from about 25 % of GDP in 1994. Nonetheless,
about half of total government expenditure is still financed by external sources, two thirds
of which are grants. While the support of the international community is still critical for
the recovery of the Mozambican economy, I do not expect, or wish, that these sizable
fiscal imbalances should persist over the long term. Furthermore, the tax structure
remains distortive and requires correction. For these reasons, I initend to strengthen the
public finance reform program along the lines described below.
7.   Similarly, the balance of payments of Mozambique is still largely dominated by
inflows of foreign aid: even though exports have picked up noticeably since 1995, the sum
total of official transfers (capital grants) and foreign borrowing still represents about three
times export proceeds. This, of course, is the mirror image of our fiscal problems, and is a
situation that the Government intends to correct gradually over the medium and long term.
8.   I wish, at this point, to convey the Government's satisfaction with the approval that
you have obtained from your Board of Directors regarding the eligibility of the Republic
of Mozambique to the HIPC initiative. This will be instrumental in making significant
increases in budgetary allocations for health and education possible and thereby also
permit the people of Mozambique to share more fully in the benefits of rapid economic
growth.
The Program
9.   The gist of this phase of our reform program is to rationalize and therefore improve
the manner in which the Government collects resources from the rest of the economy as
well as the manner in which it uses those resources. Therefore, as, I have indicated
initially, the program that I now submit for the support of your Institution comprises two
main sets of measures. Those relating to revenue aim at removing distortions in the tax
and trade regimes as well as increasing revenue performance over the medium and long
run; those relating to budget reform aim at improving the managerment of public resources.
Revenue Mobilization and the Incentive Regime
10.  Since the beginning of our reform program, we have notably liberalized most prices,
begun to rationalize and lower the tariff structure, narrowed the scope of the consumption
tax (excises), and undertaken a drastic reform of customs administration. These steps
have permitted to improve the general incentive framework of the economy, and to
increase revenue. However, much remains to be done on both counts. The Government



ANNEX J
Page 4 of 9
is in the process of developing a view as to the long term structure of the tax system in
Mozambique and the Government is conducting a study for that purpose.
11.  In this next phase of the Government's overall economic reform program, which I
submit to you today, we focus on some of the more serious distortions in the incentive
structure regarding domestic and trade taxes, as well as trade procedures. I also expect a
better revenue performance over time, resulting from these actions.
Domestic Taxation: Value Added Tax (VA 7)
12. The Government plans to introduce the Value Added Tax in April, 1999. It will
replace the turnover tax (imposto de circulacao) which, although an effective instrument
for revenue collection, is highly distortionary as it is a cascading tax. Preparations for this
began several years ago and has been supported by technical assistance from the
International Monetary Fund throughout. Ours will be a consumption based VAT. It will
be broad based, covering services, including electricity, transportation, and
telecommunications, though not financial services. Main activities exempted are public
medical services and drugs, non-profit activities, agriculture and fishing, and firms with
less than Mt. 50 million per year. Exports will be zero rated and mechanisms for refunding
VAT will be in place from the beginning. The VAT will have a single rate of 17 %.
13. To facilitate implementation of VAT (and other taxes), taxpayer indication numbers
are being issued. Importantly, also, we have begun an information campaign through the
media (press, radio, television), seminars for businesses, to prepare the public for this new
tax.
14. To achieve the above calendar, the Council of Ministers has approved the VAT
Code and issued Decree 50/98.for its effectiveness dated 29 September 1998. Pursuant to
this Decree, the Government will issue an A VISO informing the public of the introduction
of the Value Added Tax on the implementation date.
Domestic Taxation: Consumption TaLx (Imposto sobre Consumos Especificos)
15.  The Government intends to modify the current Imposto de Consumo into a tax in
the nature of excises. These will be introduced also in April, 1999. Pursuant to the Decree
which approved the Code oni the Imposto Sobre Consumos Especificos (Decreto do
Conselho de Ministros 51/98 of September 29, 1998), the Government will issue an
A nSo informing the public of the introduction of the new Imposto Sobre Consumos
Especificos. The scope of the tax will be narrowed to cover products whose consumption
is considered to have negative effects (on health or the environment), namely tobacco,
alcoholic beverages, arms and ammunitions, as well as a few luxury items. Petroleum
products are subject to a separate tax. Products are to be taxed ad valorem, at rates
varying from 20 to 75%, depending on the product.



ANNEX J
Page 5 of 9
16. The Imposto sobre Consumos Especificos will apply equally to domestic and
imported products.
Domestic Taxation: Income Taxes
17. Regarding the personal income tax, the Government has decided to alleviate the tax
burden on labor income. The maximum rate of the Imposto sobre o Rendimento do
Trabalho, Secfao A has been reduced from 30 to 20%, the minimtum taxable labor income
levels and the deduction levels have been raised, and the income brackets have been
adjusted. Over the short run, the revenue impact of these changes is expected to be a loss
corresponding to 0.4% of GDP.
18.  Similarly, the Government has decided to change the structure of corporate profit
taxes (ContribuifAo Industrial), the rates of which are, at present, high (ranging from 35
to 45 percent) and sector specific. As a first step in reforming this tax instrument, the
Government is considering unifying the corporate profit tax rates at around 3 5%, with the
exception of Agriculture, for which a rate of around 10% is being considered over a
transitional period. The new corporate tax rates will apply for income generated after
1998. However, since several aspects of the application of this tax, notably depreciation
allowances, double taxation, etc. have not been fully reviewed yet, a complete overhaul of
the corporate income tax will await the conclusion of a the more comprehensive review of
the tax system the Government is undertaking.
Trade Regime
19. The maximum import duty rate will be lowered from 35% to 30% by April 1999 in
continuation of the rationalization and reduction of the customs tariff undertaken since
1993. For that purpose, the Government will issue a Decree reducing the top import duty
rate for consumption goods to 30%. A major trade reform, implemented in 1996 and
supported by the Third Economic Recovery Credit, simplified the import tariff structure,
lowered the average nominal duty rate from 18 to 11 percent, and limited exemptions.
This reform represented an important step towards improving economic incentives for
producers, lowering prices for consumers, and simplifying customs administration for
operators. Only an export tax and an export fee remain (on raw cashews and cotton,
respectively).
20. The Government continues to be committed to fostering the development of a
competitive productive sector, for which a gradual liberalization will continue. Thus, we
plan to further reduce the maximum import duty rate by the year 2000 as well as eliminate
import surcharges (these apply to four lines of the tariff) and rectiiy remaining
misclassifications. The duty rates on raw materials and interrnedial.e goods (classes M and
I in the tariff) will remain unchanged at 2.5 and 7.5 %, respectively.



ANNEX J
Page 6 of 9
21.  The Government has also very significantly reduced the scope of import duty
exemptions. Thus, the share of imports subject to some exemption in 1997 was 23% of
total imports, down from 44% in 1996, while the foregone revenue (as a share of the value
of those imports) declined from 25% to 18% over the same period. Furthermore, a
system to monitor exemptions based on a detailed categorization has been put in place and
reconciliation of import taxes due and paid (independently from customs) will continue to
be carried out.
Special Regimes
22.  As I have noted above, the Government more generally intends to rationalize the
special tax regimes under which various exemptions are granted. Therefore, the
Government is undertaking a comprehensive review of the tax system, including the costs
and benefits of special regimes, in both trade and domestic taxes, with a view to
rationalizing them and limiting them in the future. This review will reevaluate the role of
different tax instruments and tax incentives for new or existing investments, namely those
currently provided under the investment law and the industrial-free zone laws, the
Zambezi Valley special regime, and any other special tax concession regimes for particular
regions or activities.
Import adnministration
23.  1 am pleased to report that the drastic reform of customs administration launched
last year is bearing fruit. As you know, customs administration management was
entrusted to a specialized company, Crown Agents, for a period of three years. As a
result, effective rates of collection of import duties have increased from 8 to 9% between
1996 and 1997, even though the trade-weighted average duty declined from 18 to 11%
over the same period. I am particularly satisfied that the training of new Mozambican
customs officers is progressing well.
24.  The restructuring of customs administration now requires the rationaiization of the
import process. The Government has therefore, in response to the requirements of an
increasingly dynamic private sector, decided to simplify two sets of import administration
procedures inherited from the times when exchange controls were in force.
25. First, effective November, 1998, instead of the annual registration according to 21
import classes (each subdivided into several categories), a new system will require just one
general registration issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. This
registration will be renewable yearly, against a flat fee, for each importer in good standing
(particularly with the tax authorities) with no restrictions as to the types of goods that can
be imported.
26.  Second, the current import documentation (Boletim de Registo de Importacao,
Clean Report of Findings, and Despacho Aduaneiro) will be replaced with a Single
Administrative Document (SAD), starting also in November, 1998. This will permit



ANNEX J
Page 7 of 9
reducing the time and complexity, and therefore the costs, of the current system. In this
context, procurement rules will apply only to imports financed by donors that so require.
Budgetary Reform and Expenditure Management
27. Historically, Mozambique's budgetary system has been geared toward controlling
specific expenditure items and has not been suited for allocating resources to meet priority
policy aims. The budgeting process did not adequately link expenditure with stated
policies or expected outcomes, nor was it able to adequately manage external aid flows to
meet these policy objectives. Incomplete coverage of the budget and its inappropriate
classification have made ensuring appropriate resource allocation difficult. Poor
monitoring and control systems have also made it difficult to veriiy that expenditures are
executed as planned. The accounting system has been inadequate and prone to error.
These shortcomings make programming over time, and therefore sustainability of public
service delivery, very problematic.
28. Following my letter to you under the Third Economic Recovery Credit (TERC), in
April 1997 the Government adopted a comprehensive Expenditure Management Reform
Strategy covering the key areas of budgeting and budget preparation, expenditure
programming and aid management, budgetary execution, accounting, debt management,
and auditing. The budgetary framework to be implemented under this strategy was
enshrined in the Budgetary Framework Law (Lei de Enquadramento OrVamental e da
Conta Geral do Estado).
29. The current phase of the adjustment program will focus on identifying and
classifying off-budget flows, properly reclassifying recurrent and capital expenditures,
computerizing budget programming and monitoring, reframing the budget in a medium
term perspective, and finally link the annual budget and its allocations to this framework.
Over the next year my Ministry will also examine alternative modern accounting systems
for public accounts, for possible application in Mozambique. Specific measures to be
carried out in the near future relate to proper classification of budget categories and
formulation of a medium term fiscal framework.
Classification
30.  In compliance with the Lei de Enquadramento, over the course of 1998 the
Government has adopted a new system of economic, functional, institutional, and
territorial classification of the budget and reclassified all budgetary items accordingly. The
next step, to be completed by March 1999, is to identify off-budget flows (both
expenditures and revenues in 1998) on a sample and classify thern according to defined
criteria, including function, size, origin, and statutory/legal basis. This will permit us to
decide which of these flows will be integrated in the budget and which will be treated in
separate accounts. Beginning with the budget cycle for fiscal year 2000, these flows will



ANNEX J
Page 8 of 9
be treated in accordance with the new Budgetary Framework Law in order to ensure
greater transparency and accountability.
31.  A parallel effort, expected to be completed by April 1999, is being made to identify
recurrent expenditures now (FY 1999) in the investment budget and formulate a
methodology for their correct reclassification as recurrent expenditures in future budgets.
This part of the exercise is of particular importance to ensure sustainability of our
programs, as it will help government in estimating the size of the recurrent budget --
including recurrent cost implications of today's investments -- that government will have
to finance from its own resources as flows of foreign aid decline.
Setting the Budget in a Medium Term Fiscal Framework
32.  To date expenditure programming in Mozambique has resulted in separate
programming of investment and recurrent expenditures, programming being undertaken
for only one year at a time, and expenditure programming that does not match any
projection of expected resource availability. There has been little explicit linkage between
policy priorities, programs and activities, and expenditures and costs. With the objectives
of improved sustainability and prioritization of its expenditure programs, the Government
is formulating a rolling five-year medium term expenditure framework (Cenario
Econ6mico de Medio Prazo). The Cenairio Economico de Medio Prazo for 1999-2003 is
being prepared by the Ministry of Planning and Finance in collaboration with sector
rninistries and has been presented to the Coniselho Econ6mico in September 1998. In
particular, activity-based medium-term sectoral frameworks are being developed at the
agriculture, health, and education ministries for incorporation in the next five-year rolling
program. This medium term fiscal framework will project the main sectoral expenditure
programs (including actual costing for the sector ministries which have sector expenditure
programs either in place or in preparation) and ensure their consistency with resource
availability as derived from a medium-term macroeconomic framework.
33. The Cenario Ecotn6mico de Medio Prazo will be used from now on to establish the
sectoral budget limits, commencing with the budget proposal as submitted to the National
Assembly in September 1998. As such, the fiscal year 1999 budget will be designed to
deliver on government's priority objectives of improved basic health and primary
education indicators. Critical to the sustained delivery of these programs over the medium
term will be adequate increases in government (locally financed) recurrent expenditures to
the health and education. The budget proposal for fiscal year 1999 submitted to the
National Assembly (date) fully reflects these objectives. Specifically, the budget proposal
increases the share of locally-financed, recurrent expenditures for health to 9.6 percent in
1999 from 8 percent in 1998 and increases the share of locally-financed, recurrent
expenditures for education to 18.4 percent in 1999 from 18 percent in 1998.



ANNEX J
Page 9 of 9
Conclusion
34. Having completed the most fundamental structural reforms, namely privatization,
and having stabilized the economy and launched it on a growth palh, the Government now
is focusing on measures to improve the management of public resources and improve the
incentive regime for sustained private-sector led growth. This is the sense of the program
that I submit to you for support by IDA.
Yours sincerely,
Minister of lani- and



