Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:           20504
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION (EMRO)
(Grant No. H-002-MOZ)
June 30, 2000
Macroeconomics 1
Africa Region
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Metical (Mt); plural: Meticais
US$1 = Mt 16,400 (June 20, 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFM         Caminhos de Ferro de Mo9ambique
EMRO        Economic Management Reform Operation
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FMR         Fiscal Management Review
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Country
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MPF         Ministry of Planning and Finance
MTEF        Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NPV         Net Present Value
PARPA       Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PRGF        Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SPA         Special Program of Assistance
SWAP        Sector-Wide Approach
TERC        Third Economic Recovery Credit
VAT         Value Added Tax
Vice President:                             Callisto Madavo
Country Director:                           Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                             Philippe Le Houerou
Task Manager:                               Jose Leandro



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION (EMRO)
(Grant No. H-002-MOZ)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................I
PART I: PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................1
A. BACKGROUND ..........................1.......,,.,,,,,................1
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .......................................2
Statement of objectives ...........................................2
Evaluation of objectives ...........................................4
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................5
Revenue mobilization and the incentive regime ...................... .....................8
Expenditure management and budgetary reform            .......................................... 10
D. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE    ................................... ...... 12
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................................                  13
F. PROGRAM  SUSTAINABILITY ..........................................                14
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS                    .............................,,.,,,,.,,.,. 14
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................... 15
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...........................                               16
TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Operations
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators, Actual and Projected, 1998-2001
Table 6:      Updated Matrix of Actions Supported by the EMRO
Table 7:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:      Bank Resources
APPENDICES
A.  ICR MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
B.  BORROWER'S AGREEMENT WITH THE ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION (EMRO)
(Grant No.: H-002-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic
Management Reform Operation (EMRO) in Mozambique for which a IDA grant (H-002-
MOZ), in the amount of SDR 109.5 million (US$150 million equivalent), was approved
on December 10, 1998 as part of HIPC Interim Measures and made effective on February
17, 1999.
The grant was a two tranche operation. The first tranche was disbursed on March
23, 1999. The second tranche was released on June 15, 1999 upon full compliance with
prior conditions. The program closed on December 31, 1999 as initially envisaged.
This ICR was prepared by Jose Leandro, Senior Economist and task team leader,
AFTM 1, with the collaboration of Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto, Research Analyst,
AFTMI. It was reviewed by Philippe Le Houerou, Sector Manager, AFTMI, and
Michael Sarris, Acting Country Director for Mozambique. The Borrower contributed to
the preparation of the ICR through information provided during a preparation mission
and agreed to the content of the report.
Preparation of this ICR began in April 2000. It is based on discussions with Bank
staff, Government officials, private sector representatives and other donors.






MOZAMBIQUE
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT REFORM OPERATION (EMRO)
(Grant No.: H-002-MOZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Background. In 1987 Mozambique launched a program of economic reforms
involving a shift toward market-oriented policies, macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reforms, in an effort to reduce acute fiscal and external imbalances and restore
economic activity after a period of central planning and civil war. A peace agreement
with the armed opposition was signed in 1992 and multi-party democracy was
introduced, followed by the first free elections in 1994. The economy reacted well and
growth averaged 5.5 percent in the period 1987-96 and accelerated to 10 percent in 1996-
98. Growth was broad based and GNP per capita increased by around 14.5 percent on
average during 1996-98. Stabilization remained elusive until 1996, when inflation
reached around 47 percent, but it fell sharply to 0.6 percent on average in 1998 following
the restructuring of the financial sector and the implementation of prudent fiscal and
monetary policies.
ii.   Program Design and Objectives. The EMRO was the fifth IDA adjustment
operation to support the reform process. Four previous programs focused on price
decontrols, liberalization of the foreign exchange market, budgetary reallocations in favor
of the social sectors, privatization, financial sector reform and trade liberalization. The
EMRO was designed at a time when macroeconomic stability had been achieved,
economic growth was strong and the Government was moving into a new stage in its
reform agenda aimed at sustaining growth, enlarging the circle of its benefits and
gradually reducing dependency on external aid.
iii.   As Mozambique became eligible for debt reduction under the HIPC initiative and
reached the decision point in April 1998, EMRO was conceived as part of the IDA's
interim debt relief under HIPC -- hence answering a specific request from the Bank's
Board of Directors -- and took the form of a grant. This fact had a great influence in the
design of the program and had two direct implications: (i) the operation had to be
prepared quickly and (ii) had to select measures that would both be substantive and could
be implemented prior to the HIPC completion point, planned for June 1999.
iv.   In addition to supporting macroeconomic stability and the implementation of the
reform program spelled out in the 1998-2000 PFP, thereby complementing the third
annual ESAF program approved by the IME in 1998, the EMRO concentrated on: (i)
revenue mobilization and the incentive regime, encompassing indirect tax reforms, trade
liberalization and rationalization and simplification of import procedures; (ii) improved
budgetary management and more effective expenditure planning. Support to human
development and poverty reduction would result from the emphasis on ensuring the
sustained financing of social sector expenditures, such as health and education.



- ii -
v.    Achievement of Objectives. The nature of the reforms supported by the EMIRO,
as well as the timing for their implementation, reinforced the combined effects of sound
fiscal and monetary discipline, the increased Government focus on poverty reduction and
the continuation of the privatization process, and when combined with the generally
favorable external environment and generous external assistance, have contributed to
consolidate macroeconomic stability, sustain a strong supply response, and improve
social indicators.
vi.   Performance in the areas supported by the EMRO was generally satisfactory, and
all conditions for second tranche release were met.
vii.   Mozambique's macroeconomic performance in 1999, the period of
implementation of EM:RO, remained strong, marked by rapid growth, low inflation and
high private investment. Real GDP expanded by 9 percent, and inflation remained
subdued, reaching 2 percent on average. However, higher than programmed monetary
expansion in the second half of the year led to fears of increased inflationary pressures.
For 2000 and 2001, macroeconomic projections were revised following the floods and
cyclone that affected the country in February and March 2000.
viii. Regarding indirect tax reform, the cascading turnover tax and the consumption tax
were replaced in June 1999 with a VAT and excise taxes, respectively. Despite higher
than projected VAT revenue on domestic operations, total VAT revenue for the
remaining six months of 1999 was below projections due to lower VAT revenue on
imports, but was accompanied by a sharp increase in the number of taxpayers between
June 1999 and January 2000. VAT refunds to exporters, a key measure to stimulate
export growth, are being paid within an average period of two months according to the
authorities. A review of the tax system, including an assessment of the costs and benefits
of special tax and customs exemptions, will be completed in August 2000 (against an
initial target of March 2000), although the initial plan was to undertake a more
comprehensive study, encompassing the whole tax system and covering distributional,
equity and incidence issues.
ix.   The top import duty rate was reduced from 35 to 30 percent in April 1999,
lowering the trade-weighted import duty average to 10 percent. A further reduction of
the top duty rate to 25 percent is planned in early 2002. However, trade protection in the
cashew and sugar sectors was increased toward the end of 1999, which may have adverse
effects on economic efficiency and on the welfare of peasants whose cash income
depends on the sale of raw cashew. In an effort to assess the impact of these measures
and provide a basis for its policies, the Government agreed to conduct a study for each
sector.
x.    The Government continued implementing the program of customs reforms
initiated in 1996, and before the program was presented for Board discussion, import
procedures were simplified. A new simplified importers registration system was adopted,
and the previous cumbersome import documentation (Boletim de Registo de ImportaVdo,
Clean Report of Findings and customs clearing document) was replaced with a Single
Administrative Document. As a result, the elapsed time for processing of import



- iii -
documentation was reduced from the previous three to four weeks to a maximum of 48
hours, lowering transaction costs and increasing the transparency of the import process.
Thanks to efficiency gains, import tax collection rates have improved even in the context
of declining statutory import duties. The Government intends to continue to reform
customs administration by engaging in a new three-year phase aimed at consolidating the
results achieved so far, and progressively transfer customs management from the
specialized private company to Mozambican managers. Despite of this progress,
however, corruption is still a worrying feature, that will continue to necessitate special
Government attention and that will require measures in areas other than customs, such as
in the police, the legal and the judicial systems.
xi.   Regarding budget management, a report on off-budget flows was prepared based
on the 1998 fiscal year. The 2000 budget launched the first steps in the coverage of off-
budget revenues, by including privatization revenue and profits of public enterprises.
Given the urgent need to accelerate the process of inclusion of off-budget flows, the
authorities intend to request each sector to define a strategy to achieve full budget
coverage in the short run.
xii.   An exercise consisting in identifying recurrent expenditures misclassified as
capital and included in the investment budget was undertaken. A report based on the
1999 budget identified these expenditures, but their reclassification has not yet been
undertaken.
xiii.  As part of the efforts to improve the link between specific multi-annual sector
policy objectives, the necessary resources to achieve them and the overall medium-term
resource envelope compatible with the macroeconomic framework, a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) was prepared in September 1998 and used in the
preparation of the 1999 budget, both to set the sectoral expenditure limits and to serve as
a framework for inter-sectoral resource allocations with a medium-term perspective. A
new MTEF was developed in June 1999 and used in the preparation of the 2000 budget
after being discussed and approved by a ministerial committee.
xiv.  Assessment of Outcomes and Program Sustainability. The need to adapt to the
HIPC timetable represented a heavy constraint in the design of the program and resulted
in a hasty identification process. Notwithstanding this constraint, the nature and the
timing of the specific reforms supported by the EMRO were particularly appropriate.
The simultaneous emphasis on trade liberalization and indirect tax reform, combined with
customs reform, shielded the budget from the potential adverse revenue effects of tariff
reductions that could have jeopardized the necessary fiscal adjustment, at the same time
as they contributed to improve the allocation of resources and sustain a strong supply
response. Also, the development of a MTEF and its use for the preparation of the budget
in 1999 and 2000 is an important reform, but which needs to be institutionalized as part
of the normal annual budget process if it is to contribute to fiscal sustainability, and
systematically combined with the actions included in the PARPA (Action Plan for the
Reduction of Absolute Poverty) in order to help increasing the poverty focus of public
expenditures over time. The identification of off-budget flows and recurrent expenditures
included in the capital budget are important steps that need to be followed by concrete



- Iv -
actions in the short run in order to improve budget transparency, as the Government, in
partnership with external donors, intends to move toward direct budget support in the
context of sector-wide programs. Trade liberalization suffered a setback with the
increase in protection in the cashew and sugar sectors, which may hinder economic
efficiency and have a negative poverty impact.
xv.   The authorities' good track record in terms of economic stabilization and
structural reforms, and their demonstrated commitment to the reform agenda, combined
with strong ownership of the reform process, bodes well for the sustainability of reforms
implemented under the EMRO. However, as the reform process deepens and moves into
new areas that increasingly affect income distribution and resource allocation,
governance and institutional issues, there are risks of a slow-down in the pace of change.
This is particularly true in the case of trade liberalization and market deregulation.
Therefore, the sustainability of the reforms implemented and the continuation of the good
results achieved so far in terms of high growth, low inflation and improving social
indicators, will depend to a large extent on the Government's capacity to steer the process
to avoid these risks at the same time as it engages decisively on a new generation of
reforms. These should include the strengthening of the macroeconomic environment,
improving access to and tenure of land and facilitating higher agricultural productivity,
removing impediments to private sector growth, investing in human capital and
improving governance. The successful implementation of this reform agenda will
require, inter alia, greater attention to distributional issues and the need to mobilize more
actively the winners from reform in order to support continued change.
xvi.  Lessons Learned. The following are among the most important lessons learned:
*  Borrower ownership and commitment to the reform program is a key factor of
success. The fact that the EMRO supported reforms that were clearly defined,
previously agreed upon and fully owned by the authorities facilitated
implementation and contribute to program sustainability.
*  Appropriate sequencing and complementarity between macroeconomic policies
and structural reforms reinforce program outcomes. The simultaneous
implementation of indirect tax reform, gradual trade liberalization and
rationalization and simplification of import procedures, shielded the budget from
a potential decline in revenue that could have endangered fiscal adjustment, at the
same time as it reduced distortions in the allocation of resources and supported a
strong supply response. When combined with prudent fiscal and monetary
policies, a favorable external environment and the high level of foreign assistance,
this resulted in strong GDP growth, low inflation, and high private investment.
*  Faced with capacity constraints, a smaller number of selective reforms results in
greater impact. The focused nature of the operation, which concentrated on a
limited number of areas, enabled the Government to concentrate on actions
considered critical for the success of the overall reform process, and helped
implementation in face of acute capacity constraints.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Since 1987, when the first phase of economic reforms was launched after a failed
experiment with central planning, Mozambique has experienced a deep change. A shift
toward market-oriented policies and a reduction of the role of the state in the economy
was undertaken. A peace agreement was signed in 1992 with the armed opposition that
opened the way to national reconciliation and democracy. The economy responded well
and a period of rapid economic expansion followed. GDP growth averaged 5.5 percent
during the period 1987-96, and accelerated to 10 percent during 1996-98. Growth was
broad based, with agriculture, transportation and industry all showing strong results, and
GNP per capita increased by around 14.5 percent on average during 1996-98. Inflation
remained high until mid-90's, but fell sharply from 47 percent in 1996 to 0.6 percent on
average in 1998, following privatization in the banking sector.
2.    Underpinning this high-growth and low-inflation performance were prudent fiscal
and monetary policies, accompanied by substantial external aid and a sound program of
structural reforms based on privatization, financial sector reform and trade liberalization.
Fiscal adjustment was accompanied by a shift of resources to the social sectors, and the
implementation of better policy strategies in health and education led to improved social
indicators.
3.   In spite of these good results, Mozambique remained one of the most indebted
countries in the world, suffering from acute internal and external imbalances and
extremely dependent on foreign assistance for the delivery of basic social services.
External public debt at end-1998, taking into account debt relief under traditional
mechanisms (Naples terms with 67 percent debt reduction), was estimated at US$ 6
billion in nominal terms (US$ 2.7 in NPV terms), or about 538 percent of exports. As a
result of the good stabilization and adjustment record as well as the Government's reform
agenda, Mozambique reached the HIPC decision point in April 1998 (the completion
point was successfully reached in June 1999).
4.   It was against this background that the preparation and implementation of the
Economic Management Reform Operation (EMRO) took place. It was conceived as part
of the IDA's interim debt relief under the HIPC Initiative - hence answering a specific
request by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors -- and took the form of a grant. This
fact had a great influence on the design of the operation and had two direct effects: (i) the
operation had to be prepared quickly and (ii) had to select measures that would both be
substantive and could be implemented prior to the HIPC completion point, planned for
June 1999. The EMRO followed and built on the progress made during the
implementation of five previous adjustment credits in terms of stabilizing and jump-
starting the economy.
5.    The first two adjustment operations were approved in 1988 and 1989, and focused
on rehabilitation measures. The third operation, the Economic Recovery Credit (1992),



- 2 -
supported the early phase of financial sector reform, particularly the separation of central
bank functions from the Banco Comercial de Mogambique, and the liberalization of the
exchange rate. The fourth operation, Second Economic Recovery Credit (1995),
promoted macroeconomic stability, financial sector reform, privatization and improved
public expenditures management. The fifth operation, Third Economic Recovery Credit
(1997), focused on the privatization of the two state-owned banks, a necessary step
toward better monetary control, adoption of a budget reform program, limits to indirect
subsidies to public enterprises, as well as the rationalization of the tariff and indirect tax
regime, monitoring of the impact of the liberalization of the cashew sector, and the
restructuring of the state ports and railway company (CFM).
6.    The design of EMRO benefited from work undertaken under the Fiscal
Management Review, as well as close co-ordination with the IMF, which provided
support to the reform process through successive ESAF arrangements.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of objectives
7.    The EMRO aimed to assist in the implementation (i) of key reforms agreed to in
the Policy Framework Paper for 1998-2000 and (ii) of the measures outlined in the Final
HIIPC Document for Mozambique approved by the Board in April 1998. In doing so, it
would complement the third annual ESAF program approved by the IMF Board in
August 1998. In addition to supporting the implementation of a stable macroeconomic
framework, the operation would focus specifically on improving the sustainability and
efficiency of public sector operations, with particular attention to fiscal reform, and
improving the business environment for sustained, private-sector-led growth.
8.    The operation included actions in four areas: tax and trade policy, customs reform
and import administration, budgetary management and sustainability of expenditures.
9.    Tax and Trade Policy: the main goals in this area were three-fold: (i) to reduce
the tax-induced distortions that interfere with the allocation of resources; (ii) to improve
the efficiency of taxation; and (iii) to support institutional changes that would improve
the quality of tax administration. The operation would also support the Government's
plans to undertake an overall assessment of the tax system, including the role of a set of
tax incentives for new investments, namely those provided under the Investment Law, the
Industrial Free-Zone Law and the Zambezi Valley Regime. The specific measures that
the operation supported included:
* define VAT coverage, adopt the VAT rate, and issue a Council of Minister's
decree creating the VAT code. All measures were completed by negotiations.
* replace the turnover tax with a VAT. Condition for the release of the second
tranche.



- 3 -
*  replace the consumption tax with a narrower set of excises ("Imposto Sobre
Consumos Especificos"). Condition for the release of the second tranche.
*  reduce the top import duty rate for finished consumer goods from 35 to 30
percent. Condition for the release of the second tranche.
10.   Customs Reform and Import Administration: the program measures in this area
would support the continuation of the Government's efforts to strengthen customs
administration and to simplify the import process, increasing transparency and reducing
the time and "transaction costs" associated with the existing system. These measures
were:
* adopt a streamlined registration mechanism for importers. Condition for Board
presentation.
*  replace the existing import documentation (import licence, "Boletim de Registo
de Importacao", Clean Report of Findings and customs clearing document,
"Despacho Aduaneiro") with a single administrative document. Conditionfor
Board presentation.
11.   Budgetary Management: the main objectives were (i) to improve the
transparency and scope of the budget, and (ii) in the context of necessary fiscal
consolidation, ensure adequate budgetary recurrent funds to finance health and education
programs, maintain infrastructure and decompress civil servants salaries. Actions to be
supported included:
*  the identification of off-budget flows (expenditures and revenues in fiscal year
1998) and classification according to defined criteria, including function, size,
origin, and statutory/legal basis. Condition for second tranche release.
*  the identification of recurrent expenditures in the investment budget (based on the
fiscal year 1999 budget) and formulation of a methodology for their correct
reclassification as recurrent expenditures in future budgets. Condition for second
tranche release.
12.   Sustainability of Expenditures: the operation would support the Government's
efforts (i) to improve the effectiveness of the budget as a tool to ensure that fiscal
aggregates are sustainable in the medium term; and (ii) to improve the prioritization of
public expenditures to attain stated policy objectives and outputs. Actions under this
heading included:
* formulation of a rolling five-year medium term fiscal framework ("Cenario
Econ6mico de Medio Prazo") that links resource availability from the macro-
framework to a sector-based expenditure framework, presented annually to the
Conselho Econ6mico (Cabinet Economic Sub-Committee), commencing in
September 1998. Action completed by negotiations.



-4 -
* submission to the National Assembly of a budget proposal for fiscal year 1999
consistent with the medium-term fiscal framework, including increased shares of
locally financed recurrent expenditures for health and education, relative to fiscal
year 1998 budget. Action completed by negotiations.
Evaluation of objectives
13    The EMRO was prepared at a time when the Government's economic policy had
been successful in drastically reducing inflation and generating rapid economic growth,
and was embarking on a new set of reforms aimed at sustaining growth and ensuring a
wider spread of its benefits, while at the same time gradually reducing the country's
dependence on external aid. This new generation of reforms involved: (i) consolidation
of macroeconomic stability through improved sustainability and efficiency of public
sector operations, (ii) improving the business environment and (iii) human development
and poverty reduction.
14.  In support of this agenda, and in addition to supporting the implementation of a
stable macroeconomic framework, the EMRO focused on (i) and (ii) above through: first,
revenue mobilization and the incentive regime, encompassing indirect tax reforms, trade
liberalization and rationalization and simplification of import procedures; second,
improved budgetary management and more effective expenditure programming (see
Table 6 "Matrix of Reforms" in Statistical Annex). Support to human development and
poverty reduction would result from the emphasis on ensuring the sustained financing of
social sector expenditures, such as health and education.
15.   Revenue mobilization and the incentive regime. During the previous phase of
reforms, revenue growth had outweighed considerations of an optimal tax structure as a
way of achieving fiscal adjustment without excessive expenditure cuts that would have
undermined priority social and economic programs. Given the need to continue
mobilizing domestic revenues and reduce dependence on external aid, it was therefore
appropriate to consider that the increase of the quality and the quantity of public services
necessary for poverty reduction and economic development required the development of
a more efficient and less distortionary revenue mobilization system.
16.   The basic structure of the domestic tax system suffered from a number of
problems, namely inhibiting high rates, coupled with exemptions and special incentives
regime, and weak administration, all of which interfered with an efficient allocation of
resources. The turnover tax, a cascading sales tax payable at all production stages and
generating around a third of total fiscal revenue, was distorting economic incentives. The
consumption tax had the features more of a general sales tax than of a selective excise
duty. At the same time, corporate tax rates were high by international standards, but
yielded only 10 percent of tax revenue in 1997. Furthermore, non-uniform rates (35
percent for agriculture, 40 percent for manufacturing and 45 percent for all other
activities) discriminated against services industries, which are labor intensive and are
important in terms of employment generation.



- 5 -
17.   The trade tax regime suffered from inefficiencies, despite a major trade reform,
implemented in 1996, that simplified the import tariff structure, lowered the average
nominal duty rate and limited exemptions. With a top duty rate of 35 percent on final
goods and 2.5 percent to 7.5 percent on intermediates (5 percent on capital goods),
effective protection of final products remained high.
18.  Import procedures were complex due to the existence of costly and untransparent
requirements for registration of importers and imports that increased transaction costs and
favored corruption. In particular the Boletim de Registo de Importagdo was effectively
an import license, the approval of which was subject to discretionary evaluations of
Ministry of Industry and Commerce officials.
19.   BudgetaryManagement and Expenditure Planning. Following the peace
agreement in 1992, significant public resources were reallocated from defense toward
health, education and infrastructure, at the same time as fiscal consolidation was pursued.
However, the sustainability of these expenditures was threatened by insufficient recurrent
funding, high dependence on external aid (two-thirds of the budget was financed by
external assistance), the existence of extra-budgetary flows, inadequate classification of
expenditures and the absence of a mechanism to evaluate the needs in both recurrent and
capital expenditures to achieve sectoral policy objectives within a medium-term resource
envelope compatible with the macroeconomic framework. The choice of this objective
for the EMRO was therefore appropriate.
20.  In an effort to address these problems, the Government embarked on a multi-year,
phased Fiscal Management Review (FMR) process with the support of the World Bank
and other donors in late 1995. As part of this process, a new Budgetary Framework Law
(Lei de Enquadramento Orcamental), establishing the fundamental principles for
preparing, managing, executing, controlling and accounting for the budget, was enacted
in 1997 and used for the 1998 budget. For the following years, the Government intended
(i) to identify off-budget flows (both expenditures and revenues), (ii) to ascertain
recurrent expenditures wrongly classified as capital and formulate a methodology for
their correct classification in future budgets, (iii) to develop a medium-term rolling five-
year fiscal framework to be used in the annual budgeting process, (iv) to move toward
linking budgeting decisions to specific outcomes, (v) to put into place a computerized
system to manage and control the budget and (vi) to examining alternative modern
accounting systems for public accounts. The EMRO covered items (i) to (iii).
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
21.  It is difficult to assess the specific impact of the EMRO as it was part of a wider
reform agenda that was satisfactorily implemented by the Government. Nevertheless, the
nature of the reforms supported by the EMRO, as well as the timing for their
implementation, reinforced the combined effects of sound fiscal and monetary discipline,
the increased Government focus on poverty reduction and the continuation of the
privatization process, and when combined with the generally favorable external
environment and generous external assistance, have contributed to consolidate



-6 -
macroeconomic stability, to sustain a strong supply response, and to improve social
indicators.
22.   Macroeconomic Performance. Mozambique's performance during 1999, the
period of implementation of EMRO, remained strong, marked by rapid growth, low
inflation and high private investment. A first review under the IMF's Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF) Arrangement took place in February 2000. Despite some
concerns about a weakening of performance on monetary policy and on structural
reforms, the second installment under the program was approved by the IiMF Board on
March 27, 2000.
23.   Real GDP expanded by 9 percent in 1999, fuelled by buoyant activity in the
agriculture, construction, tourism and energy sectors. Inflation remained subdued,
reaching 2 percent on average (the end-of-period inflation rate was 4.8 percent against a
projection of 5.5 percent), but accelerated from less than 1 percent in 1998 (Table 1).
The overall fiscal deficit before grants remained below the objective of 13 percent.
However, the primary deficit reached 3 percent of GDP, exceeding the program target of
2.6 percent, due to higher than projected non-interest current expenditures. Monetary
policy was eased in 1999 and the rate of monetary expansion was significantly above
program projections. As anticipated, the external current account deficit worsened
significantly in 1999 compared to 1998 as a result of imports of capital goods for the
construction of the Mozal aluminum smelter, but is expected to improve in 2000 and
2001 compared to 1999 despite the impact of the floods.
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators 1998-2001
(percent o GDP unless otherwise specified)
Actual                  Projection
Pre-Floods      Post-Floods (1)
1998    1999   2000     2001    2000      2001
Real GDP ( annual growth rate)    12.0   9.0    7.0    7.2      5.4      7.9
IMflation (annual average %)  0.6    2.0    6.6        5.0      9.5      5.0
External current account:
Before grants              -20.5   -31.7  -23.0    -15.7   -31.5    -18.4
After grants               -12.4  -21.5  -16.3    -9.1    -19.7    -11.0
Fiscal balance:
Before grants              -10.7  -12.1  -12.1    -10.7   -16.0    -11.5
After grants               -2.4    -1.2   -5.2      -4.4    -7.0      -5.1
Memorandum item:
GDP (Mt billions)          46,134  52,913  60,177   67,790   61,471   69,673
(1) Based on a World Bank assessment undertaken in March/April 2000
Source: World Bank, IMF and Government of Mozambique estimates.
24.   For 2000 and 2001, macroeconomic projections have been revised due to the
impact of the floods that affected the country in late February and March. In 2000, GDP
growth is expected to be lower than initially projected, but will be higher in 2001 boosted
by the reconstruction activities and the re-building of productive assets. Inflation is
expected to accelerate to 9.5 percent in 2000, but is likely to return to its projected pre-



- 7 -
disaster path in 2001, assuming the authorities will maintain a tight monetary stance. The
current account deficit worsened significantly compared to initial projections as a direct
result of the floods. However, the balance of payments and the fiscal gaps generated by
this exogenous shock are expected to be covered by additional foreign assistance,
including IDA's, as well as the acceleration of debt relief under the enhanced HIPC
initiative and the deferral of debt service granted by the Paris Club.
25.   Poverty. As a result of broad-based and inclusive strong economic growth, GNP
per capita increased by 6.4 percent in 1999 and is projected to continue rising at around 5
percent per annum during the period 2000-2004. At this pace, the Government expects
the poverty headcount to fall from around 70 percent in 1996-97 (latest data available) to
60 percent in 2004. Based on its Plan of Action for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
(PARPA), the Government prepared an interim PRSP that was used as a basis for the
decision point of the enhanced HIPC in April 2000. A full PRSP, to be developed after a
process of consultation is concluded, is expected to be finalized by March 2001.
26.   Performance Indicators. Rather than following the traditional practice of using
policy measures as monitoring indicators, the EMRO identified a set of outcome
indicators to monitor the results of the policy measures, but didn't include indicative
targets. The selected indicators are the following: inflation, the effective rate of import
duty collection, the anti-export bias, the elapsed time for processing import applications
and export growth.
27.   Although average inflation (measured by the consumer price index) accelerated
from 0.6 percent in 1998 to 2 percent in 1999, it remained below program projections and
can be considered negligible. For 2000, it is projected to accelerate to 9.5 percent as a
consequence of the floods, but is expected to slow down to 5 percent for the period 2000-
2003.
28.   The effective rate of import duty collection improved from around 9 percent in
1998 to 11 percent in 1999, according to information provided by the authorities.
29.   The top import duty rate was reduced from 35 to 30 percent and the real effective
exchange rate of the Metical depreciated on average by 4 percent in 1999. As a result, it
can be inferred that the anti-export bias was reduced compared to 1998.
30.   The maximum elapsed time for the processing of import documentation is
currently 48 hours, compared to three to four weeks before the simplification of import
procedures.
31.   Exports increased by around 5 percent in 1999 compared to the previous year and
are projected to expand by around 10 percent in 2000. From 2001 onwards, total exports
are projected to undergo a dramatic increase coinciding with the beginning of aluminum
exports from the Mozal smelter, but exports other then those from large projects are also
expected to grow faster than GDP.



- 8 -
Revenue mobilization and the incendve regime
32.   Tax and Trade Policy. The cascading turnover tax and the consumption tax
were replaced on June 1, 1999 with a VAT and excise taxes, respectively. The value
added tax is broad based, with a single rate of 17 percent, few exemptions, and a zero rate
on exports. Total VAT revenue for the 6 months of 1999 was lower than expected (1,400
billion Meticais against an initial projection of 1,514 billion Meticais). The difference is
due to lower revenue on imports. However, revenue on domestic activities was higher
than projected: 572 billion Meticais against 417 billion Meticais initially projected. This
was accompanied by a substantial increase in the number of taxpayers, which increased
from 11,000 in June 1999 to more than 20,000 in January 2000, with the objective of
reaching 30,000 by end-2000. VAT refunds for exporters, an important measure to
stimulate export growth, are being paid within an average period of two months,
according to the authorities. With a view to reduce further the anti-export bias, the VAT
refund period should be made shorter. The administration of the overall tax system has
been rationalized through the introduction of a unique taxpayer identification number
(Nzumero Unico de Contribuinte) to be used in the processing of all taxes.
33.   Simultaneously, a review of the tax system, including an assessment of the costs
and benefits of special taxes and customs regimes, is expected to be completed in August
2000 (against an initial target of March 2000). Initially, the objective was the execution
of a more comprehensive study, encompassing the whole tax system, and covering issues
related to the distributional impact of taxation, structure, incidence and equity.
34.   The top import duty rate was reduced from 35 to 30 percent in April 1999,
lowering the trade-weighted import duty average to 10 percent. This reduction continues
the process of trade liberalization initiated with the trade reform of late 1996, in which
the trade-weighted import duty average had been reduced from 18 to 11 percent, and it
was another step toward a less distorted and more open trade regime. A new reduction of
the top duty rate to 25 percent is planned in early 2002. As a result, Mozambique now
has one of the most liberal and simplest import tariff regimes of the region with only five
rates: 0 percent for a very limited number of essential goods, 2.5 percent for raw
materials, 5 percent for capital goods, 7.5 percent for intermediate goods and 30 percent
for final goods.
35.   Toward the end of 1999, trade liberalization suffered a setback following the
increase in protection in the cashew and sugar sectors. Regarding cashew, the National
Assembly passed a bill increasing the export tax on raw nuts from 14 percent to a range
between 18 and 22 percent, and offering domestic processors priority in the purchase of
raw nuts. The Government set the rate at 18 percent, the lowest level within the legal
range. Given the potential negative impact of these measures on the many small rural
households whose cash income depends on the sale of raw cashew, the Government
agreed to conduct a study aimed at evaluating and rationalizing policies for the sector and
to facilitate a public discussion with all stakeholders of its cashew sector policies.
Regarding the sugar industry, in September 1999 the Government enlarged the scope of a
variable surcharge on imports that applied only to raw sugar to include refined or
(mainly) white sugar, and set its level at 45 percent in an attempt to develop local



-9 -
production. In November 1999, the level of the surcharge was increased to 51 percent.
In this case again, the authorities agreed to undertake a review of the sugar sector policy
to be concluded by August 2000, with a view to determining whether support for the
sector is warranted, and the amount, duration and form of any such support.
36.   Customs reform and import administration. As part of the EMRO reform
agenda, the Government continued implementing the program of reforms initiated in
1996. Import procedures were simplified before the program was presented for Board
discussion. A new simplified importers registration system was adopted, and the
previous cumbersome and discretionary import documentation (Boletim de Registo de
Importa,do, Clean Report of Findings and customs clearing document) was replaced with
a Single Administrative Document (Documento Unico). With the suppression of the
BRI, import licensing by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce was effectively
eliminated. As a result, the elapsed time for processing of the documentation necessary
for initiating the import process was reduced from the previous three to four weeks to a
maximum of 48 hours', lowering transaction costs and increasing the transparency of the
import process. Despite of this progress, however, corruption remains a concern, and
will continue to require special Government attention, entailing actions beyond customs,
such as the police, the legal and the judicial systems.
37.   The combination of improved pre-shipment inspection, customs management by a
specialized private company and reduction and monitoring of import tax exemptions,
yielded an increase in import tax collection rates even in the context of declining
statutory import duties. Import duty rates of collection increased from less than 7 percent
in 1996 to around 9 percent in 1998, and reached 11 percent in 1999 according to
information provided by the authorities.
38.   In 1999, the implementation of some important measures in the area of customs
reform was delayed. The submission to the National Assembly of a revised package of
customs legislation (comprising the basic customs act, the customs code and a new law
on customs tribunals), which was a structural performance criterion under the PRGF and
was planned to take place in December 1999, took place in March 2000. Likewise, the
adoption of new procedures governing customs warehousing and transit trade, initially
planned for September 1999, was also delayed until March 2000. The redeployment of
approximately 300 redundant customs personnel is only expected to take place in the
coming months, although it was planned for December 1999. This delay seems to be
explained by the fact that the authorities preferred to wait until the legislation on the
career profile of customs personnel was defined before lauching the retrenchment
program. The current total number of staff is 1577, consisting of 790 old and 787 new
staff, and is considered too high for the needs of the new customs. As a result, the
technical unit in charge of customs restructuring (Unidade Tecnica de Reestructura,cao
63 percent of the cases are processed in 24 hours; 20 percent in 24-48 hours and 17 percent in 48
hours, according to the Technical Unit for the Restructuring of the Customs (UTRA). However,
20 percent of the requests are still rejected due to errors in the documentation provided
(Documento Unico).



- 10-
das Alfandegas, UTRA) expects the retrenchments to continue in the near future, as all
officials, newly recruited as well as old ones, are subject to periodic training and
evaluation exercises.
39.   Rather than a weakening of Government commitment to reform, these delays
seem to be the result of a careful approach in the implementation of politically sensitive
measures in the run up to the Presidential and Parliamentary elections that took place in
December 1999. A sign of this commitment is the fact that the contract of the specialized
company managing customs, which expired in December 1999, was initially extended
until June 2000 and will soon be renewed for another three years in order to ensure
consolidation of the results achieved so far. During this period, the company will
progressively hand over management to Mozambican managers, reinforce training
activities and concentrate in developing and strengthening customs intelligence,
inspection and design of risk profiles.
40.   The coordination in the EMRO between domestic tax reform, trade liberalization
and customs overhaul are considered particularly appropriate in the Mozambique context
because of their implications in terms of stabilization. It was important to ensure that
import tariff reductions proceed in parallel with fiscal adjustment and the expansion of
the domestic revenue base, and not before, in order to avoid the risk of a drastic reduction
of fiscal revenue that could jeopardize the stabilization objectives. The simultaneous
implementation of customs reform, which translated into an increase in tax collection,
also contributed to shield the budget from the potential negative revenue effects of tariff
reductions. As a result, budget tax revenue increased slightly from 10.7 percent of GDP
in 1998 to 10.8 percent in 1999.
41.   However, trade liberalization was accompanied by an appreciation of the real
effective exchange rate until 1999, which favored the production of nontradables and
may have hindered export growth. As alternative domestic revenue sources develop over
time and exports increase, the relative importance of the fiscal and the balance of
payments objectives will diminish, allowing an acceleration in the pace of external trade
liberalization that should be accompanied by a competitive exchange rate policy.
Expenditure management and budgetary reform
42.   Budgetary Management.  A report on off-budget flows based on the fiscal
year 1998 was prepared. The report covered (i) at the central level, the Ministries of
Public Works and Housing, Health, and Social Action, and (ii) at the provincial level,
Sofala and Zambezia, as well as (iii) external assistance from Sweden, Switzerland,
Finland, Norway, Denmark and The Netherlands. The two main types of extra-budgetary
flows include: (i) revenues collected by specific institutions (ministries, institutes,
provinces, municipalities) that are spent without being recorded centrally, as well as other
revenues such as profits of public enterprises, and (ii) donor-financed expenditure. The
magnitude of off-budget revenues varies by sector, ranging from 107 percent of the
recurrent budget of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing to 34 percent of the
recurrent budget of the Ministry of Health. In some cases, there exists no legal basis for
the collection of such revenues, which are not recorded in state accounts, and therefore



- 11 -
are neither accounted for in the budget nor audited. The budget for 2000 makes modest
progress in the coverage of the off-budget revenues by including privatization revenue
and profits of public enterprises. The authorities agree that there is a need to accelerate
the process of inclusion and intend to treat this issue as a matter of priority. Each sector
will be requested to define a strategy to achieve full budget coverage in the short run.
43.   The amount of donor financed expenditures not being executed through the
budget is more difficult to estimate because of the variety of channels used. It is the
Govemment's intention to ensure that a growing share of external assistance be
channeled through the budget and executed according to the nornal budgetary
mechanisms. The gradual development of sector-wide approaches, which at present
include three sectors, is the appropriate vehicle to move from discrete donor-funded
projects executed outside the normal budget channels toward coherent multi-donor sector
programs, implemented within national policy frameworks associated with medium-term
sector expenditure plans to be executed through the budget. However, this transition
needs to be accompanied by continued Government efforts to improve transparency and
accountability in budget management.
44.   An exercise consisting on the identification of recurrent expenditures
misclassified as capital and included in the investment budget was undertaken. A report
based on the 1999 budget identified these expenditures, and proposed a methodology for
their reclassification in future budgets. The 2000 budget identifies these expenditures,
but fails to include their reclassification. Two main reasons are given by the authorities
for this delay: (i) the implications in terms of primary fiscal deficit will require a
thorough revision of the fiscal program and agreement with the IMF; (ii) the fact that
these expenditures are entirely financed by external donors and therefore follow donor-
defined execution procedures that are different from those current expenditures financed
internally, which follow the normal budget channels and mechanisms. In any case,
progress in this area is necessary in the short run, and the authorities should redouble
efforts to accelerate the process of reclassification of expenditures.
45.   In application of the Budget Framework Law, the 1998 fiscal accounts have been
sent to the Administrative Court and the National Assembly for examination.
46.   Sustainability of Expenditures. As part of the efforts to improve the link
between specific multi-annual sector policy objectives, the necessary resources to achieve
them and the overall medium-term resource envelope compatible with the
macroeconomic framework, a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) was
prepared in September 1998 and used in the preparation of the 1999 budget, both to set
the sectoral expenditure limits and to serve as a framework for inter-sectoral resource
allocations with a medium-term perspective. A new MTEF was developed in June 1999
and used in the preparation of the 2000 budget after being discussed and approved by a
ministerial committee. However, there is a need to institutionalize the MTEF process by
making it a formal step in the annual budgetary process in order to ensure its contribution
to fiscal sustainability. Also, it will be important to ensure continuity of the link between
the development of the MTEF and the PARPA, which should help increasing the focus of
sectoral multi-annual expenditure projections on activities that will better target poverty



- 12-
reduction, at the same time as it will contribute to the necessary coherence between the
fiscal objectives and the poverty targets in the Poverty Action Plan and the PRSP.
47.   A new MTEF is currently being developed to be used as a framework for the
preparation of the 2001 budget.
48.   The fiscal reform measures carried out in the context of the EMRO -- re-
classification of recurrent expenditures and the development of an MTEF -- were
identified in the Fiscal Management Review process launched since late 1995. This
process favored a very gradual approach to reformn, stretching the period for the
conduction of the analytical work and the implementation of its recommendations over a
considerable period of time. Given the capacity constraints facing the Mozambican
administration, this gradualism contributed to ensure the continued leadership of the
process by the authorities, and the close working relationship developed between the
Bank and the Ministry of Plan and Finance' staffs during this process, improved the
relations with Government, which facilitated the dialogue in other areas of reform.
49.   Nevertheless, there is now a need to accelerate the pace of fiscal reform in this
area. In particular, concrete measures need to be taken urgently to improve the
transparency and monitoring of budget execution. As part of the PRGF, the Government
has published a quarterly budget execution report in June 2000, comparing budget
allocations and actual expenditures at central and provincial levels during the first quarter
of the year, following both the economic and functional classifications. Although the
publication of this first report is a commendable effort in favor of transparency, the
authorities agree that the next edition should be more "user-friendly" and made easier to
understand by non-specialists and the general public. Publication of the next report is
planned for August 2000. By improving donors' confidence in fiscal management, rapid
progress in this area would facilitate the Government's strategy of moving progressively
toward a system of direct budget support in which a growing share of external assistance
is executed following the normal budget procedures.
D. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
50.   The design of the EMRO was greatly influenced by the latest thinking on
adjustment lending, particularly on issues related to conditionality and tranching. The
focused nature of the reform agenda supported by this operation and the emphasis put on
up-front measures (five out of ten measures were either completed by negotiations or
before Board presentation, while the remaining five were conditions for second tranche
release), is in line with recommendations from recent reviews of adjustment credits, and
in particular the Higher Impact Adjustment Lending initiative. Also, the constant
concern with building and protecting recipient ownership during both phases of program
design and implementation is expected to contribute to the long term sustainability of the
reforms. The use of outcome indicators is also in line with recent initiatives taken in the
context of the SPA (Special Program of Assistance).
51.   The Bank's performance in identifying and preparing the EMRO is considered
satisfactory. The need to adapt to the HIPC timetable and ensure the operation would be



- 13 -
implemented within a six-months period, i.e. before the HIPC completion point planned
for June 1999, resulted in an operation prepared in haste. Notwithstanding this
constraint, the nature and the timing of the specific reforms supported by the EMRO were
appropriate. The design of the operation built on lessons and progress made in previous
programs, particularly the TERC, and it paid special attention to capacity constraints. It
was based on a reform agenda clearly defined, previously agreed with and fully owned by
the authorities. The simultaneous emphasis on trade liberalization and the enlargement of
the domestic revenue base, combined with customs reform, shielded the budget from the
potential adverse revenue effects of tariff reductions that could have jeopardized the
necessary fiscal adjustment, at the same time as they contributed to sustain a strong
supply response. Also, the development of a MTEF and its use for the preparation of the
budget in 1999 and 2000 is an important reform, but which needs to become embedded in
the normal annual budget process if it is to contribute to fiscal sustainability. In order to
help increasing the poverty focus of public expenditures over time, the MTEF should also
be systematically combined with the findings of the poverty assessment and the actions
included in the PARPA. The identification of off-budget flows and recurrent
expenditures included in the capital budget are important steps that need to be followed
by concrete actions in the short run in order to improve budget transparency, as the
Government, in partnership with external donors, intends to move toward direct budget
support in the context of SWAP's. The co-ordination with the IMF was highly
satisfactory and the measures supported by EMRO were part of the PFP for 1998-2000
and the reform agenda outlined in the Final HIPC Document of March 31, 1998.
52.   Supervision of the EMRO was also satisfactory. Given the short time for
implementation, only one supervision mission took place, which was combined with an
IMF review mission in the context of the third ESAF and with the mission to negotiate
the Policy Framework Paper 1999-2001 and to prepare the Debt Sustainability Analysis
for debt relief under the HIPC initiative. The fact that the operation took the form of a
grant rather than a traditional IDA credit led to delays in the effectiveness and
disbursement of the first tranche due to difficulties within the Bank's departments in
dealing with this kind of instrument.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   The Borrower's performance during the preparation of the operation was highly
satisfactory. The commitment to and the ownership of the EMRO reform program by the
authorities, both at the technical and political levels, are considered to be key factors of
success. The retention of dedicated and capable staff was also a determinant factor in this
outcome.
54.  Implementation of EMRO supported measures is considered satisfactory. All
required actions were taken according to the initial plan, which resulted in full
compliance. Introduction of VAT, a reform demanding high technical capacity and strong
political will, can be considered a success. Politically difficult measures, like the
continuation of the customs reform, or the reduction of import tariffs, were implemented
effectively. However, by the end of 1999, there was a slippage on monetary policy and a
setback on trade policy with the increase of the export tax on raw cashews and the



- 14 -
surcharge on sugar imports. The increase of external trade protection may adversely
affect economic efficiency and may have a negative impact on the income of poor
households.
F. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILIITY
55.   The authorities'good track record in terms of economic stabilization and structural
reforms, and their demonstrated commitment to the reform agenda combined with strong
ownership of the reform process, bodes well for the sustainability of reforms
implemented under the EMRO.
56.   However, as the reform process deepens and moves into new areas that
increasingly affect income distribution and resource allocation, governance and
institutional issues, there are risks of a slowdown in the pace of change. This is
particularly true in the case of trade liberalization and market deregulation, as illustrated
by the ongoing debate in Mozambique regarding the role of trade protection in the
development of local production. Therefore, the sustainability of the reforms
implemented and the continuation of the good results achieved so far in terms of high
growth, low inflation and improving social indicators, will depend to a large extent on the
Government's capacity to steer the process to avoid these risks, at the same time as it
engages decisively on a new generation of reforms. These should include the
strengthening of the macroeconomic environment, improving access to and tenure of land
and facilitating higher agricultural productivity, removing impediments to private sector
growth, investing in human capital and improving governance. The successful
implementation of this reform agenda will require, inter alia, greater attention to
distributional issues to ensure that growth is inclusive and fairly distributed through
appropriate tax and expenditure policies, and the need to mobilize more actively the
winners from reform in order to support continued change.
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
57.   According to the new Country Assistance Strategy for the period 2001-2003,
IDA's next adjustment operation is planned for FY02 (base case scenario) and will focus
on improving fiscal management and on private sector development. In the field of fiscal
management, the next operation should build on progress achieved so far through support
to the improvement of public accounting, increased transparency in budget classification
and monitoring of actual expenditures, the development of consolidated fiscal and quasi-
fiscal accounts, and the mainstreaming of the anti-poverty focus in expenditure
programming and budgeting. Issues related to trade liberalization and tax reform will
remain an important aspect of Bank/Mozambique dialogue.
58.  In preparation for the future adjustment operation, a Public Expenditure Review is
planned to take place in FY01, as well as ESW on the impediments to private sector
development, possibly with the participation from IFC's Foreign Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS). Studies on the pension system and on tax exemptions, currently under
implementation, will also be used as inputs.



- 15 -
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
59.   The following are among the most important lessons learned:
*  Borrower ownership and commitment to the reform program is a key factor of
success. The fact that the EMRO supported reforms that were clearly defined,
previously agreed with and fully owned by the authorities facilitated
implementation and contribute to program sustainability.
* Appropriate sequencing and complementarity between macroeconomic policies
and structural reforms reinforce program outcomes. The simultaneous
implementation of indirect tax reform, gradual trade liberalization and
rationalization and simplification of import procedures, shielded the budget from
a potential decline in revenue that could have endangered fiscal adjustment, at the
same time as it reduced distortions in the allocation of resources and supported a
strong supply response. When combined with prudent fiscal and monetary
policies, a favorable external environment and the high level of foreign assistance,
this resulted in strong GDP growth, low inflation, and high private investment.
*  Faced with capacity constraints, a small number of selective reforms results in
greater impact. The focused nature of the operation, which concentrated on a
limited number of areas, enabled the Government to concentrate on actions
considered critical for the success of the overall reform process, and helped
implementation in face of acute capacity constraints.



- 16-
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macroeconomic Policies                X      _
Sector Policies                       X_
Financial Objectives                  X
Institutional Development             X
Physical Objectives                                                                 X
Poverty Reduction                                   X
Gender Concerns                                     X
Other Social Objectives                                                             X
Environmental Objectives                                                            X
Public Sector Management                            X
Private Sector Development                          X
x
Identification                                              X
Preparation Assistance                                      X
Appraisal                                                   X
Supervision                                                 X
99E9  9    9    S-m2glgEg                  9      9Xj9vg           9         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,9- O
Preparation                             X
Implementation                                              X
Covenant Compliance                     X
x



- 17 -
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Third Economic      Supported measures to improve  FY97      Completed
Recovery Credit     macroeconomic management,
through financial and fiscal
reform, and to remove
impediments to a sustained
supply response.
Second Economic     Promoted macro-stability,     FY95       Completed
Recovery Credit     financial sector reform,
privatization, and improved
management of public
expenditures
Capacity Building in   Capacity building in budget  FY93     Completed
Legal and Public    management
Sector Management
P~~~~aUe1O#er~~~~~~~~~~~~zdon,  ~~ . ... . .- --
Flood Emergency     Critical to maintaining       FY00       Under
Recovery Project    macroeconomic stability. The             implementation
counter part funds generated
will provide the Government
with non-inflationary funds to
finance the fiscal deficit created
by the floods.
Economic            Will focus on improving fiscal    FY02   Planned under the
Management and      management and private sector            CAS base case
Private Sector      development                              scenario
Operation



- 18 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                Apri 13-24, 1998.         April 14-24, 1998
Preparation                   n.a.                      May-June, 1998
Appraisal                     June 29-July 15, 1998     July 2-20, 1998
Negotiations                  November 15, 1998         October 8, 1998
Letter of Development Policy  December 10, 1998         November 13, 1998
Board Presentation            January, 1999             December 10, 1998
Signing                       n.a.                      December 21, 1998
Effectiveness                 n.a.                      February 17, 1999
First Tranche Release         January 31, 1999          March 23, 1999
Second Tranche Release        June 30, 1999             June 15, 1999
Closing Date                  December 31, 1999         December 31, 1999
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million equivalent)
FY,99;            D.   D '  '   D
Appraisal estimate                    150
Actual                                150
Actual Cumulative                    100%
Date of final disbursement       June 15, 1999



- 19-
Table 5: Key Indicators, Actual And Projected, 1998-2001
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Real GDP Growth                                 12.0       9.0        5.4       7.9
Total Investment/GDP                            20.4       35.5      34.9      21.8
Gross National Savings/GDP 1/                    0.8       12.8      11.1       7.2
Export Growth (merchandise in US$)               7.9       4.8       9.8       78.9
Import Growth (merchandise in US$)              14.2       55.0      -2.2      -17.1
Current Account Balance after grants (% of GDP)  -12.4    -21.5     -19.7      -11.0
Total Revenues/GDP                              11.5       11.7      12.9      13.2
Total expenditure and net lending/GDP           22.2       23.9      29.1      24.6
Fiscal deficit before grants/GDP                -10.7     -12.1     -16.0      -11.5
Consumer Price Index (annual avg.)               0.6       2.0       9.5        5.0
External Debt Service/exports 2/                29.0       28.0      30.1      21.5
1/ Includes all transfers
2/ Includes assistance under HIPC from 1998 onwards
Sources: MPF, INE, and World Bank staff estimates



- 20 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 6: Updated Matrix of Actions Supported by the EMRO
The Reform Agenda Supported by the EMRO
Policy Area  Condition                                 Status
A. Revenue Mobilization and the Incentive Regime
1. Domestic Taxation
a. Define VAT coverage (including exemptions), Completed by
adopt VAT rate; Council of Ministers will issue   Negotiations
decree creating the VAT Code
b. Introduce VAT in replacement of the     Condition of Second
turnover tax                               Tranche release
c. Introduce new consumption tax (Imposto  Condition of Second
sobre Consumos Espectficos) on a narrow range  Tranche release
of products
2. Trade Regime
a. Reduce top import duty rate from 35 to 30  Condition of Second
percent                                    Tranche release
b. Replace current import documentation    Condition for Board
(Boletim de Registo de Importaqio, Clean   presentation
Report of Findings and Despacho Aduaneiro)
with a Single Administrative Document
c. Streamline importer registration procedures    Condition for Board
and eliminate importer categories (as listed in    presentation
Diploma Ministerial 17/91 of the Ministry of
Commerce and Diploma Ministerial 21/91 of the
Ministries of Commerce and Finance).



- 21 -
Page 2 of 2
Policy Area  Condition                                Status
B. Expenditure Management and Budgetary Reform
1. Budgetary Management
a. Identify off-budget flows (expenditures and    Condition of Second
revenues in FY98) and classify according to  Tranche release
defined criteria (e.g. function, size, origin, and
statutory/legal basis) so as to permit decision as
to their future status including incorporation into
the budget.
b. Identify recurrent expenditures now in the  Condition of Second
investment budget (based on the FY99 budget)   Tranche release
and formulate a methodology for their correct
reclassification as recurrent expenditures in
future budgets.
2. Sustainability and Prioritization of
Expenditures
a. Complete formulation of a rolling five-year   Completed by
medium term expenditure framework (Cendrio   Negotiations
Economico de Medio Prazo) and present to the
Conselho Econ6mico.
b. Submit to National Assembly a budget   Completed by
proposal for FY99 consistent with the medium    Negotiations
term expenditure framework, including
increased shares of locally-financed recurrent
expenditures for health and education, relative to
FY98 budget.



- 22 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
xa ~~~~~~~~~~~~..........   W,<2X... zzsz azz.,z s>,Z$;SfzX,z=g gXaz>,xx 
Schedule 2      Borrower to issue notice to implement the    Condition met
(1)         VAT Code.
(2)         Borrower to issue notice to implement the    Condition met
consumption tax.
(3)         Borrower to issue decree to reduce the  Condition met
maximum import duty rate for finished
consumer goods from 35 to 30 percent.
(4)         Borrower to furnish the Association a        Condition met
report, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association, identifying off-budget
flows (expenditures and revenues in FY 98)
and classifying them in accordance with
criteria specified in paragraph 30 of the
LDP.
(5)         Borrower to furnish the Association, a        Condition met
report based on the 1999 FY budget which
identifies recurrent expenditures currently
in the investment budget, in which sets
forth the methodology for their appropriate
reclassification as recurrent expenditures in
future budgets.



- 23 -
Table 8: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Prep aration toAppraisal                     0.6                     149.4
Appraisal                                    18.1                     52.6
Negotiations through Board Approval          26.5                    128.1
Supervision                                  12.3                    67.8
Completion                                   7.7                      28.4
TOTAL                                        65.2                    426.3
Table 9: Bank Resources - Missions
.(3~~~~~~~~~~~Q~~~~~~4~~~~~~~~~~~7  ~~~~~~~~t'~~~~~~~~ki. jt  1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ..
Identification       April 13-24, 1998    5 persons             12 days
Appraisal            July 2-20, 1998    7 5 persons             19 days
Supervision          April 12-May 3, 1999  4 persons           22 days
Completion           May 15-23, 2000      1 person             9 days



- 24 -
APPENDIX A-
Page 1 of 7
The World Bank
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND REFORM OPERATION (EMRO)
I1MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AIDE MEMOIRE
May 23, 2000
1.    The implementation completion report (ICR) mission for the EMRO took place
from May 15 to May 23, 2000. The mission was conducted by Jose Leandro (Economist
and task team leader). The mission was joined by Philippe Le Houerou, Sector Manager
Macroeconomics, and Michael Sarris, Acting Country Director, who with James Coates,
the World Bank Resident Representative in Maputo, provided general guidance and
participated in the final meeting with the Government1. This aide-memoire summarizes
the main conclusions of the mission.
2.    The mission met with the Ministers and staff from the Ministry of Planning and
Finance, Ministry of Industry and Commerce, UTRA, Crown Agents, representatives of
the private sector and other donors. The mission is grateful for their assistance and
valuable inputs to the preparation of the ICR.
Background
3.    Mozambique embarked on a program of economic reform in 1987, involving a
shift toward market-oriented policies and economic stabilization, in an effort to reduce
acute domestic and external imbalances and restore economic activity after a period of
central planning and civil war. A peace agreement was signed in 1992 and the first
elections took place in 1994. The economy reacted well and growth averaged 5.5 percent
in the period 1987-96 and accelerated to 10 percent in 1996-98. Stabilization was elusive
until 1996 when inflation reached around 47 percent, but it fell sharply since then to 0.6
percent on average in 1998 following a restructuring of the financial sector and the
implementation of prudent fiscal and monetary policies. Private investment soared
fuelled by economic and political stability and social indicators improved.
Reform Agenda Supported by the EMRO
4.    The operation was designed at a time macroeconomic stability had been achieved,
economic growth was strong and the Government was embarking on a set of reforms
aimed at sustaining growth, enlarging the circle of its benefits and gradually reducing
' The ICR mission was combined with two other missions: the first, led by Michael Sarris, on consultations
between the Bank and the Mozambican authorities, representatives of the civil and business society, NGO's
and other donors, in preparation for the CG meeting planned to take place in Paris in June 2000; the second
on presentation of the draft Growth Prospects study, co-led by Philippe Le Houerou and Manuela Ferro.



-25 -
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 7
dependence on external aid. In addition to supporting macroeconomic stability and the
implementation of the reform program spelled out in the 1998-2000 PFP, thereby
complementing the third annual ESAF program approved by the IMF in 1998, the EMRO
concentrated on: first, revenue mobilization and the incentive regime, encompassing
indirect tax reforms, trade liberalization and rationalization and simplification of import
procedures; second, an improved budgetary management and a more effective
expenditure planning. Support to human development and poverty reduction would result
from the emphasis on ensuring the sustained financing of social sector expenditures, such
as health and education. As Mozambique became eligible for debt reduction under the
HIPC initiative and reached the decision point in April 1998, the EMRO was conceived
as part of the IDA's interim debt relief under HIPC and took the form of a grant.
Achievement of Objectives
5.    Performance in the areas supported by the EMRO was generally satisfactory. All
conditions for second tranche release were met.
6.    Macroeconomic performance. Mozambique's performance during 1999, the
period of implementation of EMRO, remained strong, marked by rapid growth, low
inflation and high private investment.
7.    Real GDP expanded by 9 percent, marked by buoyant activity in agriculture,
construction, tourism and energy sectors. Inflation remained subdued, reaching 2 percent
on average (the end-of-period inflation rate was 4.8 percent against a program projection
of 5.5 percent), but accelerated from less than 1 percent in 1998. The overall fiscal deficit
before grants remained below the program projection of 13 percent. Monetary expansion
was however above program projections in the second half of 1999, spelling fears of
inflationary pressures in the following months, and the implementation of some structural
measures suffered a delay probably linked to the run up to the parliamentary and
presidential elections that took place in December 1999. The external current account
registered a sharp deterioration, in line with program objectives, due to high import
demand from the Mozal aluminum smelter, but is expected to improve in 2000 and 2001
compared to 1999.
8.    For 2000 and 2001, macroeconomic projections were revised due to the impact of
the floods and cyclone that affected'the country in late February and March. In 2000,
GDP growth is expected to be lower than projected, but will be higher in 2001 boosted by
the reconstruction activities and the re-building of productive assets. Inflation is expected
to accelerate to 9.5 percent in 2000, but is likely to return to its projected pre-disaster path
in 2001, assuming the authorities will maintain a tight monetary stance. The current
account deficit worsened significantly as a direct result of the floods. However, the
balance of payments and the fiscal gaps generated by this exogenous shock are expected
to be covered by additional foreign assistance, including IDA's, as well as the
acceleration of debt relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative and the deferral of debt
service granted by the Paris Club.



APPENDIX A
-26-                    Page 3 of 7
9.    Tax and trade policy. The cascading turnover tax and the consumption tax were
replaced on June 1, 1999 with a VAT and excise taxes, respectively (condition for second
tranche releasej. The value added tax is broad based wi'h a single rate of 17 percent, few
exemptions, and a zero rate on exports. Total VAT revenue for the 6 months of 1999 was
lower than expected (1,400 billion MT against an initial projection of 1,514 billion MT).
The difference is due to lower revenue on imports. Revenue on domestic activities was
higher than projected: 572 billion MT against 417 billion MT initially excepted. This
was accompanied by a substantial enlargement in the number of taxpayers, which
increased from 11,000 in June 1999 to more than 20,000 in January 2000, with the
objective of reaching 30,000 by end-2000. The administration of the overall tax system
has also been rationalized through the introduction of a taxpayer identification number
(numero de contribuinte) to be used in the processing of all taxes.
10.   Simultaneously, a review of the tax system, including an assessment of the costs
and benefits of special taxes and customs regimes, will soon be launched and is expected
to be completed in August 2000 (against an initial target of March 2000). Initially, the
objective was the conduction of a more comprehensive study, encompassing the whole
tax system, and covering issues related to the distributional impact of taxation, structure,
incidence and equity.
11.   The top import duty rate was reduced from 35 to 30 percent in April 1999
(condition for second tranche release), lowering the trade-weighted import duty average
to 10 percent. A new reduction of the top duty rate to 25 percent is planned in early 2002.
As a result, Mozambique now has one of the most liberal and simplest import tariff
regimes of the region with only five rates: 0 percent for a very limited number of
essential goods, 2.5 percent for raw materials, 5 percent for capital goods, 7.5 percent for
intermediate goods and 30 percent for final goods. However, trade protection in the
cashew and sugar sectors was increased toward the end of 1999. Given the potential
negative impact of these measures on households and the general economic efficiency,
the Government agreed to conduct a study on each sector aimed at evaluating and
rationalizing its policies.
12.   Customs reform and import administration. As part of the EMRO reform
agenda, the Government continued implementing the program of bold reforms initiated in
1996, and before the program was presented for Board discussion, import procedures
were simplified. A new simplified importers registration system was adopted, and the
previous cumbersome import documentation (Boletim de Registo de Importacao, Clean
Report of Findings and customs clearing document) was replaced with a Single
Administrative Document (Documento Unico) (condition for second tranche release). As
a result, the elapsed time for processing of import documentation was reduced from the
previous three to four weeks to a maximum of 48 hours2, lowering transaction costs and
increasing the transparency of the import process. Despite of these progresses, however,
corruption is still a worrying feature, that will continue to require special Government
2 63 percent of the cases are processed in 24 hours; 20 percent in 24-48 hours and 17 percent in 48 hours.
However, 20 percent of the requests are still rejected due to errors in the documentation (Documento
Unico).



-27-                   APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 7
attention and that will entail actions beyond customs, such as the police, the legal and the
judicial systems.
13.   Currently, 33 percent of imports are subject to pre-shipment inspection. However,
the authorities are planning to progressively shift inspection to post-shipment.
14.   The combination of the improved pre-shipment inspection, customs management
by a specialized private company and reduction and monitoring of import tax
exemptions, yielded an increase in import tax collection rates even in the context of
declining statutory import duties. Import duty rates of collection increased from less than
7 percent in 1996 to around 9 percent in 1998, and reached around 11 percent in 1999
according to data provided by the MPF.
15.  In 1999, the implementation of some important measures in the area of customs
reform was delayed. The submission to the National Assembly of a revised package of
customs legislation (comprising the basic customs act, the customs code and a new law
on customs tribunals), which was a structural performance criterion under the PRGF and
was planned to take place in December 1999, took place in March 2000. Likewise, the
adoption of new procedures governing customs warehousing, transit trade, and the
activity of customs agents, initially planned for September 1999, was also delayed until
March 2000. The redeployment of approximately 300 redundant customs personnel is
only expected to take place in the coming months, although it was planned for December
1999. The authorities preferred to wait until the legislation on the career profile of
customs personnel was defined before starting to retrench. Three criteria were applied in
the identification of those to be retrenched: (i) evaluation of general knowledge
undertaken by an external organization, (ii) professional evaluation by hierarchy and (iii)
disciplinary records of the employee. The current total number of staff is 1577, consisting
of 790 old and 787 new staff, and is considered too high for the needs of the new
customs. As a result, UTRA expects the retrenchments to continue in the near future, as
all officials, newly recruited as well as old ones, are subject to periodic training and
evaluation exercises.
16.   The delays experienced in 1999 are the result of a combination of a weak capacity
and a careful approach in the implementation of politically sensitive measures in the run
up to the elections that took place in December 1999. A sign of this commitment is the
fact that the contract of Crown Agents, that expired in December 1999, was extended
until June 2000 and will shortly be renewed for another three years in order to ensure
consolidation of the results achieved. During this period, the company will progressively
hand over management to Mozambican managers, reinforce training activities and
concentrate in developing and strengthening customs intelligence, inspection and design
of risk profiles.
17.   Budget management. Based on the fiscal year 1998, a report on off-budget flows
was prepared (condition for second tranche release). The study covered (i) at the central
level, the Ministries of Public Works and Housing, Health, an Social Action, and (ii) at
the provincial level, Sofala and Zambezia, as well as (iii) external assistance from
Sweden, Switzerland, Finland, Norway, Denmark and The Netherlands. The two main
types of extra-budget flows include (i) revenues collected by specific institutions



- 28 -             APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 7
(ministries, institutes, provinces, municipalities) and other revenues like profits by public
enterprises, and (ii) donor-financed expenditure.
18.   The 2000 budget launched the first steps in the coverage of the off-budget
revenues by including privatization revenue and profits by public enterprises. The
Government agrees that there is a need to accelerate the process of inclusion and intends
now to request each sector to define a strategy to achieve full budget coverage in the
short run.
19.   The amount of donor financed expenditures not being executed through the
budget is more difficult to estimate because of the variety of channels used. It is the
Government's intention to ensure that a growing share of external assistance is channeled
through the budget and executed according to the normal budgetary mechanisms. The
gradual development of sector wide approaches, which at present include 4 sectors, is the
appropriate vehicle to move from discrete donor-funded projects, executed outside the
normal budget channels, toward coherent multi-donor sector programs, implemented
within national policy frameworks associated with medium-term sector expenditure plans
to be executed through the budget. However, this transition needs to be accompanied by
continued Government efforts to improve transparency and accountability in budget
management.
20.   An exercise consisting in the identification of recurrent expenditures misclassified
as capital and included in the investment budget was undertaken. A report based on the
1999 budget identified these expenditures, and proposed a methodology for their
reclassification in future budgets (condition for second tranche release) . The 2000 budget
clearly identifies these expenditures, but their reclassification has not yet been
undertaken. There are two main reasons: (i) the implications in terms of primary fiscal
deficit will require a thorough revision of the fiscal program and agreement with the IMF;
(ii) the fact that these expenditures are entirely financed by external donors and therefore
follow donor-defined execution procedures that are different from those current
expenditures financed internally, which follow the normal budget channels and
mechanisms. Progress in this area is therefore linked to the efforts being deployed to
increase the share of external aid executed through the budget.
21.   In application of the Budget Framework Law, the 1998 fiscal accounts have been
presented to the Administrative Court and the National Assembly for examination.
22.   Sustainability of expenditures. As part of the efforts to improve the link
between specific multi-annual sector policy objectives, the necessary resources to achieve
them and the overall medium-term resource envelop compatible with the macroeconomic
framework, a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) was prepared in
September 1998 and used in the preparation of the 1999 budget. A new MTEF was
developed in June 1999, and used in the preparation of the 2000 budget after being
discussed and approved by a ministerial committee. Whereas for 1999 the process was
based on a sample of only five ministries with high expenditure shares, in 2000 the
exercise of detailed long-term expenditure planning was extended to all ministries. A
very positive development in this respect was the involvement of staff in charge of the
national poverty assessment in the MTEF process and in the discussions with sectoral



APPENDIX A
-29-               Page 6 of 7
ministries. This has served to transmit findings of the poverty assessment to sector
ministries and will increase the poverty focus of their multi-annual expenditure
projections to activities that will better target poverty reduction, at the same time as it
ensures the necessary coherence with the fiscal objectives of the Poverty Action Plan and
the PRSP.
23.   A new MTEF is currently being prepared and a draft for circulation to line
ministries should be completed before end-May 2000 to be used as a basis for the
preparation of the 2001 budget.
Future Operations
24.   In a meeting with the Minister of Plan and Finance and the Governor of the
Central Bank, future adjustment lending was discussed. According to the new Country
Assistance Strategy for the period 2001-2003, IDA's next adjustment operation is
planned for FY02 (base case scenario) and will focus on improving fiscal management
and on private sector development. In the field of fiscal management, the next operation
should build on progress achieved so far through support to the improvement of public
accounting, increased transparency in budget classification and monitoring of actual
expenditures, the development of consolidated fiscal and quasi-fiscal accounts, and the
mainstreaming of the anti-poverty focus in expenditures planning and budgeting. Issues
related to trade liberalization and tax reform will remain an important aspect of
Bank/Mozambique dialogue.
25.   In preparation for the future adjustment operation, a Public Expenditures Review
is planned to take place in FY01, as well as ESW on the impediments to private sector
development, possibly with the participation from IFC's Foreign Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS). Studies on the pension system and on tax exemptions, currently under
implementation, will also be used as inputs.
Conclusion and Areas for Special Attention
26.   The implementation of the EMRO can be considered highly satisfactory. Two
main reasons seem to explain this outcome: (i) the focused nature of the operation, which
concentrated on a limited number of areas considered critical for the success of the
overall reform program and (ii) the fact that all measures were part of a reform agenda
previously agreed with and fully owned by Government, which will contribute to the long
term sustainability of the operation.
27.   There are two issues, however, that will require continued attention and close
dialogue between the Government and the Bank:
(i) on trade policy, while recognizing the need to ensure that domestic industries become
competitive, the authorities express the idea that domestic infant industries need to be
protected during a transition period, in order to foster the development of an internal
industrial base, increase employment and facilitate the delivery of social public services
in the remote rural areas. Based on both theoretical grounds and empirical evidence, the
mission expressed its concerns about this approach because it could hinder the progress



- 30 -              APPENDIX A
Page 7 of 7
achieved in competitiveness through trade liberalization, considered to be a key feature of
the reform process.
(ii) on fiscal reform, the measures implemented in the context of the EMRO -- re-
classification of recurrent expenditures and the development of an MTEF -- had been
identified in the context of the Fiscal Management Review process launched in late 1995.
This process favored a very gradual approach to reform, stretching the period for the
conduction of the analytical work and the implementation of its recommendations over a
considerable period of time, which undoubtedly contributed to ensure the continued
leadership of the process by the authorities, thereby contributing to the sustainability of
the reforms. Nevertheless, there is now a need to accelerate the pace of fiscal reform. In
particular, concrete measures need to be taken urgently to improve the transparency and
monitoring of budget execution. As part of the PRGF, the Government has committed to
publish a quarterly budget execution report, starting in May 2000. Ideally, the report
should present actual expenditures both according to the budget classification, at the
highest level of desegregation possible, and according to the economic and functional
classifications. By improving donors' confidence in fiscal management, rapid progress in
this area would facilitate the Government's strategy to move progressively toward a
system of direct budget support in which a growing share of external assistance is
executed following the normal budget procedures.
Jose Leandro
Senior Economist



- 31 -
APPENDIX B
iEPEBUUCA DE MOCAMBIQUE
MISTFUO DO PLANO E FIiANCAS
GABINETE DO MINSTRO
JVo.j /FVA&/MIF/2000
Naputo, June ey ,2000
Dea,Mjr.Darius Ma.s
Comm" Drector
The World Iahik
181 HStreet, NW
Warhington DC 20433
USA
Subject: Economic Management and Reform  Operaoim  (ZMRO) - Impleme/nadom
Compleion Report
Dear Ahr Mans,
With reference to the bmplementation Completion Report under subject. we would like to inform
you that the Government agrees with its content and considers that it can be sent to the Board of
the World Bankfor information and subsequentpublication.
Yours sincerely.
Manuel Cuang
Vice-Minister of Planning and Finance



