Report No. PID6465
Project Name                     Mozambique-Economic Management...
Reform Credit (EMRC)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Microeconomics
Project ID                       MZPE1767
Borrower                         Government of Mozambique
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Planning and Finance
Date this PID prepared           May 21, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         June-July, 1998
Board Date                       January, 1999
Background
Mozambique is successfully managing a transition from a centrally-planned
to a market-driven economy and from war to peace. The end of the war and the
establishment of a democratic system have restored political stability,
improving the development prospects for the country. A series of wide-ranging
economic reforms have been implemented since 1987, supported by substantial
external assistance. The pace of economic reform has accelerated markedly in
the past two years, notably privatization and financial sector reform. This
has contributed to sustain economic growth and restore macroeconomic
stability. Real GDP growth has averaged over 6 percent in 1996-97, inflation
has been brought down to single digits (from 54 percent in 1995 to 5.8 percent
in 1997), and social indicators are beginning to improve. As a result of
these positive developments, Mozambique qualified for the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) debt initiative in April 1998, with a completion point
of June 1999.
Objectives
The Economic Management Reform Credit (EMRC) seeks to support the
Government's reform agenda, as outlined in the Policy Framework Paper for
1997-1999 The agenda targets rapid, poverty-reducing growth and reduction of
the country's dependence on external aid. The Government aims to achieve
these objectives through (i) the consolidation of a stable macroeconomic
framework; (ii) the development of human resources; and (ii) the development
of the private sector. Within this broad strategic agenda, the proposed EMRC
will focus on structural and policy reforms aimed at improving the
sustainability and efficiency of public sector operations, with a special
focus on fiscal reforms, and improving the business environment for sustained,
private sector-led growth.
Description



Since 1988, IDA has supported Mozambique through several phases of
adjustment with five adjustment credits. Two Economic Rehabilitation credits
and the first Economic Recovery Credit supported the first phase of basic
reforms that eased import controls and started liberalizing the price regime.
These reforms, initiated prior to the end of civil war in 1987, marked the
shift from a centrally-planned economy to a market-oriented one. The Second
and Third Economic Recovery Credits supported the second stage of reforms,
which were undertaken during the post-conflict stage from 1992 to 1997 and
created the basis for a market economy. Reforms included privatization of
production, commercial and financial systems, addressed impediments to
sustained economic growth through rationalization of the indirect tax and
tariff regime, and established the basic legislative framework for an improved
management of public resources. The proposed Economic Management Reform
Credit, the sixth adjustment credit for Mozambique, would build on
satisfactory implementation of reforms under the previous credits and would
initiate support for a third phase of structural reforms.
The proposed credit will consist of four main components: (i) measures to
improve the efficiency of revenue mobilization and the incentive regime,
through expansion of the tax base, elimination of distortions due to the
current tax regime, and reduction in reliance on trade taxes for revenue
purposes; (ii) measures to improve the management and efficiency of public
expenditures, through an expenditure management and budget reform, the
development of a medium-term expenditure framework, and the strengthened
monitoring of state-owned enterprise equity; (iii) measures to encourage
financial deepening, through improved coordination between fiscal and monetary
policies; and (iv) measures to remove unnecessary administrative barriers to
investment and at facilitating entry into productive and commercial
activities.
Environmental Aspects
The recommended environmental assessment category is C. The proposed
operation does not have a direct environmental impact.
Implementation
The credit will be disbursed through Bank of Mozambique, in two equal
tranches, upon compliance with benchmarks, yet to be defined. Simplified
disbursement procedures under adjustment credits will apply. The Ministry of
Planning and Finance will be responsible for coordinating the implementation
of the reform program agreed under the credit.
Financing
The specific amount of the proposed operation will be determined in line
with Mozambique's projected external financing requirements at the time of
appraisal. As a balance of payments operation, the proposed credit will
finance 100l of the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports.
Benefits and Risks
The operation will assist in meeting Mozambique's financing requirements
during 1999. In addition, it will support the implementation of key
structural reforms needed to consolidate macroeconomic stabilization and
- 2 -



growth while moving towards fiscal sustainability. Potential risks are linked
with Mozambique's limited institutional and managerial capacity, which may
slow down execution of several components of the program and potential
opposition from some special interests. The Government has achieved a great
deal in mitigating these risks by informing the public about the benefits of
reform and actively consulting private sector associations regarding reforms
in the trade and tax regimes.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 29, 1998.
The proposed operation would be part of IDA's interim debt relief measures, approved by
the Bank's Board in the context of the HIPC initiative for Mozambique and under which
new World Bank financing approved prior to mid- 1999 will be 100 percent on grant terms.
-3 -



