Report No. 836-GR                                                     FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
East Vermion Irrigation Project
Greece
August 7, 1975
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the, Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted Or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Drachma (Dr)
US$0.033         =    Dr 1.00
US$1.00          =    Dr 29.90
US$33.333        =    Dr 1 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                              British/US System
1 millimeter (mm)                     =    0.039 inches
1 meter  (m)   i                           3.28 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =    1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm32          =    810.7 acre feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)    =    35.35 cubic feet per second
1 liter per second (1/sec)            =    0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilometer (km)                      =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                        -    2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                       -    2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                    =    2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
LRS    -    Land Reclamation Service, Ministry of Agriculture
PPC    -   Public Power Corporation
ABG    -   Agricultural Bank of Greece
TOEV   -    Local Farmer's Water Users Association
GOEV   -    General Farmer's Water Users Association
kV     -    kilo volt
SW     -   Megawatt
kWh    -    kilowatt hour
GOVERNMENT OF GREECE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



APPRAISAL OF
THE EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
GREECE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............          ..............
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....................................
II.   BACKGROUND  ..            .....................................               2
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ................................ .                         3
A.    Area Features  ...............................                        3
B.    Natural Resources ...........................                         4
C.    Land Tenure and Farm Size  .....               ..............         5
D.    Land Use, Production and Yields  ...... ........                      6
E.    Credit Sources  .......             .......................           6
F.    Subsidies and Support Prices ................                         7
G.    Supporting Services  .........................                        7
IV.    THE PROJECT  ......................................8
A.    Objectives        .............................                       8
B.  Description ......................                                      9
C.    Detailed Features  .............         ..... ..........            10
D.    Water Demand,  Supply and Quality  ..........            ..         11
E.    Water Rights  .......          .........................            11
F.    Status of Engineering  ...........          .. ..........            12
G.    Flood Flows  .................. ...............                      12
H.    Construction Schedule  ...........          .. ..........            12
I.    Cost Estlmates  ................ ..............                      13
J.    Financing         ................... ................               14
K.    Procurement  .................. ...............                      14
L.    Disbursement  ................. ...............                      15
M.    Environment and Health  .... ! ....... ..........                    15
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Greece in February 1975 and was composed of Messrs. M. Altaf Hussain, J.W.
Robins, D.A. Forno (IBRD) and W. Allan (Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                             Page No.
V.   PROJFCT IMPLEMENTAT1ON ...........................             15
A.   Organization and Management ....         .............    15
B.   Project Coordination ........................             16
C.   Operations and Maintenance ....         ..............    17
D.   Supporting Agricultural Services ....       ........      17
E.   Consultants .................................             18
F.   Recovery of Project Costs .....         ..............    18
G.   Monitoring of Project .......................             19
H.   Accounts and Audit ..........................             20
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................             20
A.   Production ..................................             20
B.   Market Prospects ............................             21
C.   Prices ........        ..............................    23
D.   Farmers' Income .............................            24
E.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ....        .........    24
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONIMENDATIONS ...........            25
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture
2.   The Peach Industry
3.   Project Description
4.   Water Requirement, Supply and Quality
5.   Construction Schedule (IBRD Chart No. 9700R)
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Equipment Lists
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Organization Chart (IBRD Chart No. 9701)
10.   Operation and Maintenance Costs
11.   Prices Used for Project Analysis
12.   Farm Budgets
13.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
14.   Labor Requirements
MAP        IBRD No. 11530  East Vermion Irrigation Project.



APPRAISAL OF
THE EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
GRFECE
SUMMARY ANTD CONCLUSIONS
i.        The East Vermion Irrigation Project involving an area of about
24,000 ha is located in Central Macedonia about 70 km west of Thessaloniki.
It is estimated to cost US$89.8 million equivalent and a Bank Loan of US$40.0
million has been requested by the Government of the Hellenic State.
ii.       The agriculture sector plays a key role in the Greek economy.  It
employs about two-fifths of the labor force, generates one-fifth of GDP, con-
tributes one-third of all exports and supplies raw material for processing and
manufacturing industries. Agriculture's contribution to the GDP has declined,
however, in relation to other sectors, from 25% in 1960 to less than 20% in
1974. It is Government's policy to stimulate agricultural production through
provision of irrigation and by giving input subsidies and income support for
the cultivators of small and scattered farms who have incomes about one-third
of the national average. Despite this policy, only half of the 1.6 million
ha of potentially irrigable land is under irrigation due to the scattering of
meager investments in a large number of inadequately prepared projects. This
situation is now being remedied. The Project would by providing irrigation
water, and supporting services make a systematic and substantial contribution
to agricultural production.
iii.      The Project comprises the rehabilitation and extension of an in-
adequate existing irrigation system to provide an assured and ample water
supply for the project lands. A water resource inventory and feasibility
study for a future irrigation project in the Xanthi-Komotini areas would
also be undertaken.
iv.       The soils and climatic conditions in the Project Area are favorable
for irrigated agriculture, water resources are adequate to meet future irri-
gation needs, infrastructure and supporting services exist and the farmers
have the capability to exploit the available resources to increase product-
ivity once existing constraints are removed.
v.        The loan would finance the direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs of the Project estimated to be US$34.0 million equivalent as well as
US$6.0 million towards interest and other charges on the loan during the
construction period.
vi.       Construction? and supply contracts for the Project totalling about
US$51.4 million equivalent would be awarded following international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement.



- ii -
vii.      Planning, design and-construction of the Project would be the res-
ponsibility of the Land Reclamation Services (LRS) of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture which has long experience in works of a similar nature and size. It
would be assisted in the planning and design stage by consultants. The Public
Power Corporation (PPC), which has the necessary capability would be respons-
ible for supplying electric energy for the Project facilities. The Agricul-
tural Bank of Greece (ABG) with adequate experience and resources would pro-
vide credit. Marketing is presently provided by private enterprise. The
Agricultural Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture is res-
ponsible for agricultural research and for the extension service.
viii.     A senior officer of LRS in Athens would be appointed as Project
Manager. He would be responsible for liaison between the various govern-
ment agencies involved in the Project and would be a member of an inter-
departmental Steering Committee which would provide broad policy guidance.
LRS would be responsible for overall coordination of Project operation and
maintenance, while existing Farmers' Water User's Associations (TOEVs) would
operate and maintain Project works in their areas, distribute irrigation
water and collect water charges.
ix.       Farmers would repay full O&M costs, and consistent with prevailing
Greek laws, an additional charge for future replacement or investment which
would represent a reasonable proportion of investment costs.
x.        Project construction would start in 1976 and be completed by
December 1979, reaching full development by 1987.
xi.       At full development, the Project would increase the present annual
production of peaches by 68,000 tons, other fruits 30,000 tons, cereals 8,000
tons, sugarbeets 21,000 tons, vegetables 14,000 tons, and alfalfa 17,000 tons,
as well as smaller increases in production of cotton and legumes. The net
value of the economy of this incremental production at 1975 prices, would be
Dr 500 million (US$16.7 million). The Project would improve the balance of
payments and reduce underemployment. The Project's main beneficiaries would
be 13,900 low income families. The economic rate of return of the Project
would be 18.5% and even under an adverse combination of assumptions
regarding investment costs and benefits would be 12.5%.
xii.      The net income of a typical farm family operating a 2 ha holding
is presently estimated to be about Dr 85,000 (US$2,840 equivalent) and is
expected to increase to about Dr 145,500 (US$4,860 equivalent) at Project
maturity. The Dr 60,500 (US$2,020) incremental income would be net of water
charges.
xiii.     On the basis of agreements reached during negotiations, the Project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$40.0 million repayable over a period
of 15 years including a grace period of 5-1/2 years.



APPRAISAL OF
THE EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
GREECE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Hellenic State has requested a Bank loan of
US$40.0 million to finance the foreign exchange cost of East Vermion Irriga-
tion Project. The project would rehabilitate and extend an existing surface
irrigation system on 24,000 ha net in the East Vermion area, and provide for
feasibility studies in the Xanthi-Komotini area for a future irrigation proj-
ect to be based on the most economic use of available water resources. Gov-
ernment had proposed inclusion of Xanthi-Komotini development under the pre-
sent project but preparation was inadequate to ensure optimum resource util-
ization.
1.02      The Bank Economic Mission of January 1975, in harmony with earlier
missiorls, has flagged the importance of the agriculture sector and recommended
increased investment in irrigation for rapid agricultural growth, diversifica-
tion, improved income distribution and rural development. Their recommenda-
tion emphasized rehabilitation and completion of existing projects followed
by better preparation of new projects. The Government current policy is in
line with that approach.
1.03      East Vermion Irrigation Project is the third request for Bank sup-
port for agricultural development in Greece. The first loan of US$25 million
was made in June 1971 for the Groundwater Development Project in the Thessaly
plain. Implementation of that project has been slow due to lack of exper-
ience in groundwater exploitation in the Ministry of Agriculture's Land Re-
clamation Service (LRS). In addition there were difficulties over the cost
recovery provisions of the Loan Agreement due to passage of a law in December
1972 which exempted the project beneficiaries, together with all others served
by public irrigation projects, from the repayment of most of project investment
costs. The project has also a cost increase of 190% over appraisal estimates
partly due to change in design. Certain problems originating from inexperience
have been resolved; others are receiving the needed attention. The difficulty
concerning cost recoveries was removed by agreement on a fixed charge at a
level lower than originally decided. Government, in consultation with the
Bank, is reviewing project scope for making economies. Nevertheless, progress
in certain aspects of project execution such as drilling of wells, project
related studies, staffing and land consolidation is very satisfactory.
1.04      A second loan of US$30.0 million was made in June 1974 for the
Nestos and Yannitsa Project, but its effectiveness was delayed until July
1975 due to (i) shifting the executive responsibility to a less experienced
agency, and (ii) changes in Government. However, project consultants have



been appointed and have already reviewed engineering designs and satisfac-
tory progress is now expected.
1.05      The East Vermion Irrigation Project should avoid the pitfalls which
the previous two projects encountered. The organization responsible for ex-
ecution, LRS, has implemented several surface irrigation projects including
the Bank financed Groundwater Development Project. Further, the present
project has been adequately prepared and its scope has been reduced by exclud-
ing construction in the less prepared Xanthi-Komotini area. This should mini-
mize delays in construction and financial constraints.
1.06      The project was identified by the Government of Greece and was pre-
pared by LRS assisted by consultants and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
It was originally proposed as part of the Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation
Project, but was excluded by the 1972 appraisal mission due to inadequate
preparation. Further information, particularly on engineering designs, water
balance of three sub-areas (para 3.01) of this project and cost data has since
been gathered by three Consortia of Greek firms, of whom the leaders were
Pandis and Gofas (Edessa), Komis and Haitides (Arapitsa) and Karadimos (Tri-
potamos). Also, agro-economic studies have been refined and updated by Gov-
ernment departments.
1.07      The project was appraised in February 1975 by a mission composed
of Messrs. M. Altaf Hussain, J.W. Robins, D.A. Forno (IBRD) and W. Allan
(Consultant) which prepared this report.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Greece has a land area of 132,000 km2 and a population of-nearly
9.1 million (1975 estimate), increasing at 0.6% per annum. There are 3.9
million ha of productive land, of which about 3.4 million ha are cultivated;
the balance is fallow land. GDP at constant 1967 prices rose as planned by
8% per annum during 1968-73. The growth in agricultural production at 3%
per annum was, however, behind the 5.2% target, mainly because of poor per-
formance in the livestock subsector which, in turn, was due to shortfalls in
production of feed grains and fodder crops, a weakness which the project
would help reduce.
2.02      Agriculture is still an important sector in the Greek economy, al-
though its contribution to GDP has declined from 25% in 1960 to less than 20%
in 1974. It employs about 40% of the active working population, generates
about one-fifth of GDP, contributes 35% of export earnings and supplies raw
material for processing and manufacturing industries. The main agricultural
commodity exports are tobacco, cotton, fruits, vegetables, raisins, hides
and skins. Agricultural imports, by value, are roughly 80% of agricultural
exports, the important commodities being beef, mutton, wool, milk and feed
grains, mostly maize.



- 3 -
2.03      Farms are small and scattered and farmers lack resources to develop
production.  Project farmers are poor, their incomes averaging about 1/3 the
national income.  Government policy has been to snDport agricultural develop-
ment through provision of irrigation and other measures such as input subsidies.
Within this policy framework, the emphasis has been on the promotion of feed-
grains, fodder crops, livestock products and sugar for import substitution,
and on increased production of crops with export prospects such as cotton,
fruits and vegetables. Some success has been achieved but progress has been
retarded by the following constraints:
(i) water for irrigation is scarce and potential resources are
being developed slowly, primarily due to lack of financial
resources. (About 0.9 million ha of the potential irrigable
1.6 million ha, or less than 25% of the arable land is pre-
sently irrigated);
(ii) the labor situation is anomalous with hired labor being
scarce during peak seasons and family labor being under-
employed for most of the remaining year;
(iii) supporting extension and research services are weak in
numbers and mobility although quite efficient; and
(iv) farms are small and fragmented, due to limited arable area,
slow emigration from the agriculture sector, and Greek laws
of inheritance which allow for an equal share to all child-
ren in the estate of parents.
The proposed project would help reduce most of these constraints and enable
realization of increased productivity leading to higher incomes. exnort ex-
pansion and import substitution. Land consolidation and farm enlargement,
however, would not be achieved because the bulk of the project land is under
established orchards of varying age, productivity and value (para 3.12).
III. TIE PROJECT AREA
A. Area Features
3.01      Location.  The project is in Central Macedonia about 70 km west of
Thessaloniki, the chief industrial, commercial and administrative center of
the region (Map IBRD 11530). It consists of three adjacent areas, Edessa in
the north, with urban, commercial and transport centers in the town of Edessa;
Arapitsa in the center, with urban services in Naousa; and Tripotamos in the
south, east of the town of Veria, and bounded to the south by the flood con-
trol embankment of the Aliakmon river and to the east by the Salonica Plain
Intercepting Canal.  All three areas lie to the east of the Vermion mountain
range.



-4-
3.02      Topography.  In general, the area slopes downward to the east and
south from a maximum elevation of about 450 m in Edessa to 19 m in southern
Tripotamos. Much is of relatively flat terrain, with slopes of 0.2 to 0.6%.
The Vermion foothills, mainly within the Edessa and Arapitsa areas, are dis-
sected by streams and are of uneven relief with irregular slopes averaging
5%, increasing locally to 15% and exceptionally to 30% (Annex 1).
3.03      Population.  The total population in the project area is about
94,900 of whom a third are rated as "non-rural". The rural sector comprises
13,900 families engaged in agriculture. The average size of the family is
4.5, of whom at least two are of working age. Family labor is adequate to
meet current demand except at peak periods when labor is hired at Dr 200
to Dr 250 per day from large families with little land, or from the "non-
rural" sector and pastoral mountain villages outside the project area. Only
between 20% and 25% of farmers in the project area hire labor, the majority
depend on family labor and the reciprocal help of neighbors. Details of pop-
ulation and labor are in Annex 1 and Annex 14.
3.04      Electricity and Water Supply.  There is an adequate network of
high tension power lines and substations in the project area and the Gov-
ernment's Public Power Corporation (PPC) is responsible for their maintenance
and distribution. Water supply from rivers, springs and wells in the area
will be more than sufficient to meet foreseeable irrigation demands.
3.05      Transport and Communications.  The National Highway links the proj-
ect area with the port of Thessaloniki and the transport system of Western
Europe. It is served also by rail from Thessaloniki through Veria and Edessa
into Yugoslavia, giving alternative access to the markets of Western Europe.
An asphalted and well-maintained road links Edessa and Veria with the National
Highway. The surfaced network extends to all urban centers and larger vil-
lages through a system of secondary roads which are generally in good condi-
tion. Of the tertiary network which serves more isolated communities, about
a third is in good condition and the remainder in need of improvement. Postal,
telephone and telegraph facilities are satisfactory and on the whole, transport
and communications are.adequate.
3.06      Health and Education.  Living conditions, diet and health are now
satisfactory. This has come about through improved farm income and the de-
velopment of social infrastructure including schools, dispensaries and health
clinics. Illiteracy is now limited, mainly to older people, particularly
women. Village houses are adequate. With respect to both agricultural and
social conditions, East Vermion ranks among relatively advanced areas in
rural Greece.
B. Natural Resources
3.07      Climate.  The project area is characterized by a Mlediterranean-
Continental climate with some rainfall in each month. Total annual precipita-
tion ranges from 550 mm to 675 mm. The mean annual temperature is 15.8°C and



-5-
monthly means range from 4.80C in January to 27.6°C in July. Frosts occur
but are rarely severe. Snow falls during about 20 days in December and
January, and hail occurs on about 2 days a year. The area is protected by
the mountain barrier from strong, cold winds. Its climate makes the area
given adequate irrigation, one of the most suitable for the production of
deciduous fruits.
3.08      Soils.  Project area soils are suitable for growing a variety of
crops. More than half the area has been classified as loams and clay loams,
the remainder varying from sandy loams to silt laams and clays. Water hold-
ing capacity is moderate to high and infiltratiou rates fairly slow to aver-
age. Drainage is generally good except in the south of the Tripotamos area,
and there are no excessive salts. Surface soils range from pH 6.8 to 8.0.
Intrinsic fertility is moderate and can be improved by appropriate fertilizer
application (Annex 1).
3.09      Over 60% of the project area falls into USBR Land Capability Clas-
ses I, II and III (suitable for all crops) and over 30%, mainly in the semi
mountainous areas, is in Class IV where the limitation is one of slope.
These Class IV lands are suitable for orchards with the use of contour fur-
rows and terrace-basin irrigation; practices which are already well establish-
ed.
3.10      Irrigation and Draina e.  The Edessa area (6,600 ha) has a fairly
adequate water supply from local streams and the Edessa river. The delivery
system however is poor. Much water is lost in unlined canals and in seasons
of poor stream flow the supply is inadequate during the dry months, greatly
reducing the yields and quality of fruits (para 4.13). The other two areas,
Arapitsa (9,800 ha) and Tripotamos (7,600 ha), obtain their water from local
springs and streams. These supplies are inadequate for irrigation. Annual
average water supply is only half the optimum requirements.
3.11      All three areas now have fairly adequate drainage systems.  The
only significant problem is local ponding in the lower-lying parts of Ara-
pitsa and Tripotamos which the project would overcome.
C. Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.12      The average owned holding in the project area is approximately
1.75 ha, compared with the national average of 3.3 ha. About 70% of the
project.land comprises operational holdings averaging about 2 ha. About 60%
of the cultivators, occupying together less than one-third of the project
area, have holdings of 1 ha or less, but many of these farmers have some off-
farm employment. There is no excessively skewed distribution of farm size
in the area, and there are no large landholdings or absentee landowners.
Only a few farmers rent land to enlarge their holdings as land in the area
is rarely available and the rent is high. Land fragmentation is relatively



- 6 -
slight in the project area and the process of consolidation would be compli-
cated because of the predominance of established orchards of varying age,
productivity and value. Moreover, Greek law exempts orchard lands froim con-
solidation requirements, and it is neither recommended, nor considered essen-
tial for this project (Annex 1).
D. Land Use, Production and Yields
3.13      The cultivable land within the project is approximately 24,000 ha
net. Most of the area (18,400 ha) is presently irrigated but with in inade-
quate and unreliable water supply. The remainder is unirrigated (Annex 1).
3.14      About 73% of the irrigated project land is under established or-
chards, 12% under industrial crops, cotton and sugar beets, 9% under crops
for animal feed, alfalfa and maize, 5% under vegetables and food legumes,
and 1% under other crops, mainly table grapes and strawberries. The dryland
cropping is dominated by winter cereals with about 57% in wheat. About 12%
of the dryland is under orchards (apple, pear or cherry) and animal feed
crops. The remainder is planted with food legumes and cotton. Sugar beets
are grown on a small-scale but cultivation of this crop could be increased
with irrigation. Vegetables are produced mainly for family needs. Peaches
dominate the tree crops, occupying over 40% of the total land (Annex 2),
followed by apples on about 13% of the area. In 1974 the project area pro-
duced over a quarter of the total output of apples in Greece. Pears, apricots,
cherries, grapes and strawberries are of minor importance.
3.15      Livestock is also of minor importance within the project area.  A
number of households keep one or two family cows. Others, in the neighbor-
hood of the main urban centers, maintain small herds of 3 to 5 cows.
E. Credit Sources
3.16      The Agricultural Bank of Greece (ABG) is a large and well organised
institution covering the entire countrv and the whole spectrum of lending to
agriculture. It is the only significant source of credit for farmers. Short-
term loans, mainly production loans to farmers, are issued at an interest rate
of 7% to individual farmers or at 6-1/4% if obtained through a cooperative
society. Medium- and long-term loans are available for farm development or
the purchase of machinery and livestock at rates of 5-1/2 to 6% (Annex 1).



- 7 -
F. Subsidies and Support Prices
3.17      Agricultural policy in Greece is directed towards influencing the
pattern of production in response to market conditions, resource transfer
to the lagging agriculture sector and increased production through a complex
and extensive system of subsidies, grants and price supports. In 1973 the
level of support for each operational holding amounted to about Dr 5,600
(US$187 equivalent). These measures, by and large, have achieved their ob-
jective and because of the size and structure of the agriculture sector are
to be continued. Details are in Annex 1.
G. Supporting Services
3.18      Marketing and Cooperatives.  Agricultural produce is marketed both
in the local and foreign markets through the private trade sector and coop-
erative organizations. Central cooperatives play a large part in the mar-
keting of wheat and cotton, the other crops being handled mainly by private
traders. Private traders have tended to replace agricultural cooperatives
in a number of functions, particularly fruit-marketing. Fruit producers sell
their crops to packing establishments or to individual traders. This prac-
tice of private trading operates efficiently (Annex 1).
3.19      Agricultural Inputs.  The use of farm inputs is high and farmers
are skilled though yields are depressed by inadequate irrigation. Distribu-
tion of quality seeds and fertilizers is efficiently handled by the ABG.
Farmers can readily obtain supplies from ABG's depots or through cooperative
societies. Young fruit trees for orchard establishment are also readily
available from Government institutes and private nurseries under Government
supervision (Annex 1).
3.20      Insecticides and weedicides are distributed by ABG, and equipment
for their application is in good supply through the private trading sector.
The project area is well supplied with mechanical and hand-operated sprayers
and dusters, and the standard of plant hygiene is high.
3.21      Extension and Training.  Extension operations are efficiently con-
ducted within the limitations of manpower and transport, both of which are
deficient. Advisory work is supplemented by field officers of the ABG, and
the project area is fortunate in having an Agricultural Training Center which
offers short- and medium-term courses for farmers in a wide variety of prac-
tical subjects. In addition to the four general extension officers now serv-
ing in the project area, it will be necessary to appoint four more agricul-
tural graduates with training in extension to be supported by four techni-
cians and equipped with necessary vehicles and visual aids and office equip-
ment (Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6).



3.22      Research and Staff Training.  The region has a number of research
institutes and stations concerned with specific crops, agronomy, phytopath-
ology, mineral nutrition and livestock. A horticultural station, concerned
with deciduous fruit production lies within the project area. The Research
Stations are well staffed and equipped, or in process of becoming so. How-
ever, the LRS's experiment station at Thessaloniki. the only station specific-
ally concerned with plant water requirements and irrigation practice, needs
strengthening with additional staff, equipment and staff training. Two
additional agriculture graduate staff members and two supporting technicians
will be employed together with additional drivers and laborers. Two graduate
staff members of the institute would be sent for specialist training abroad
at research institutes equipped for irrigation and water management studies.
The training would be completed by the end of the project construction period.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The East Vermion Project would provide for rehabilitation and up-
grading of existing irrigation facilities to assure an adequate and stabil-
ized supply of irrigation water to about 18,000 ha of mostly peach producing
land and for new irrigation facilities for about 6,000 ha of currently un-
irrigated but highly productive agricultural land. The project would increase
agricultural production of high value crops for export and local consumption,
and facilitate rural development by reducing under employment and unemployment
and improving rural incomes.
4.02      Irrigation water for the project would be supplied by gravity from
local and nearby surface water sources - rivers and springs, and supplemented
by groundwater resources - deep wells. Alternative means of water supply and
distribution were examined and found less attractive, technically and economic-
ally (Annex 3).
4.03      In addition to irrigation development in the East Vermion Project
area, the project would include a study of surface and groundwater resources
in the Xanti-Komotini and neighboring areas, comparison of irrigation develop-
ment alternatives and preparation of an irrigation project which would opt-
imize use of the local resources. The area to be covered by the study is one
of the poorest areas in Greece and its population includes minority groups
which it Is Government's intention to assist. The area has potential for
both crop and livestock development.



-9-
B. Description
4.04      The Project consists of:
(a)  construction of 15 new concrete lined primary irrigation canals
with a combined length of about 140 km;
(b)  rehabilitation and concrete lining of about 42 km of existing
main irrigation canals and about 1,490 km of secondary and
tertiary irrigation canals;
(c)  rehabilitation of about 1,065 km of secondary and tertiary
drainage channels;
(d)  establishment of about 9 small regulating reservoirs and a
small diversion structure with flood bypass;
(e)  minor land leveling on about 4,800 ha;
(f)  installation of 5 irrigation pumping stations and 3 drainage
pumping stations;
(g)  construction of about 14 new deep wells equipped with electric
pumps;
(h)  installation of about 36 km of 15-20 kV power transmission
lines to serve the pumping stations and pump units;
(i)  construction of about 1,110 km of farm access roads;
(j)  supply of equipment as initially required for the operation
and maintenance of the facilities provided under the Project,
for the extension services in the East Vermion Irrigation
Project area, and for research,
(k)  consultant services, additional extension and research staff
and training abroad of agricultural research personnel of
LRS; and
(1)  a feasibility study and preparation of an irrigation project
to be located in the Xanthi-Komotini and neighboring areas.
4.05      LRS would supervise construction of the irrigation and drainage
works, and the PPC would construct and operate the electrical network. The
Local Farmers' Water Users Associations (TOEVs) would operate and maintain
the irrigation and drainage facilities with technical guidance and assistance
from LRS.



- 10 -
C.  Detailed Features
4.06      Project Canals.  Fifteen new concrete lined canals, totaling about
140 km in length, would be constructed replacing old inadequate canals for
distribution of new project water supplies. These canals would vary in cap-
acity from 0.25 m3/sec to 3.83 m3/sec.  About 42 km of the existing main
canals and 1,490 km of the secondary and tertiary canals would also be re-
habilitated and lined with concrete. The canal system would be equipped
with automatic level controls and gates to assure high conveyance efficiency
(about 90%) and proper distribution of flow between canals. Irrigation of
the Project lands would be by gravity, as in the past, but application effi-
ciency would be improved as a result of a properly sized, fully lined and
regulated distribution system, limited land leveling and improved irrigation
practices.
4.07      Regulating Reservoirs.  About nine small reservoirs would be con-
structed at critical locations to provide scheduled irrigation deliveries from
sources providing irregular supply flows. They would also make it possible
to limit pumping to 18-hour off-peak periods of the day to take advantage of
lower energy rates. The reservoirs would be located off-stream to protect
them from floods. They would be rectangular in shape, constructed of rein-
forced concrete, with capacities ranging from 3,000 m3 to 100,000 m3.
4.08      Pumping Stations and Wells.  About half of the water supplied from
the Aliakmon River to the Arapitsa and Tripotamos areas (Annex 4), would be
delivered to the low plain area by gravity flow and the remainder would need
to be pumped to the canals in the upper plain and foothill areas. Five pump
stations, each equipped with multiple pump units, would be required for this
purpose. These pump units would have a total installed capacity of 8,465 hp.
Three additional pumping stations would be required in the Arapitsa and
Tripotamos areas to lift drainage water accumulations into the existing
Interceptor Canal (para 3.01). These stations would also be equipped with
multiple pumnp units and would have a total installed capacity of 2,410 hp.
About fourteen new wells would be drilled in the lower part of the Edessa
area to supplement the irrigation supply. They woule each be equipped with
a 80 hp-pump unit. The wells would be about 150 meters deep with pump head
of about 60 meters.
4.09      Farm Roads and Drains.  About 1,110 km of farm roads would be re-
constructed or improved and about 1,065 km of secondary and tertiary drainage
channels would be rehabilitated, replaced or supplemented with new channels as
needed (Annex 3 paras 26 and 27).
4.10      Power Transmission System.  About 36 km of 15 to 20 kV transmission
lines would be constructed to provide electric energy for the pumping stations
and wells. The transmission facilities would be constructed by PPC and linked
to the network of transmission lines and substations existing in the area. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that PPC would be required to install
the power transmission lines included in the Project before the facilities to



- 11 -
be served thereby are completed for placement into service, and to provide at
all times power sufficient for the operation of such facilities.
4.11      Land Leveling.  Minor land leveling would be required on about 4,800
ha of non-orchard land to facilitate more efficient irrigation practices and
reduce local drainage problems and would be done by LRS (Annex 3, para 28).
D. Water Demand, Supply and Quality
4.12      Water Demand.  Allowing for effective precipitation, soil condi-
tions and types of crops grown in the area, the average net crop water require-
ment is estimated at 4,900 m3/ha or 118 Mm3 for the project. The gross re-
quirement at the source of supply would be about 163 Mt3 or 6,800 m3/ha allow-
ing a global efficiency factors of 68% (Annex 4).
4.13      Water Supply and Quality. Water currently available from the
Edessa River (averaging 5.0 m3/sec) will be reduced to about 2.5 m3/sec in
the future by additional diversions for power generation (Annex 4). The proj-
ect would replace this loss and provide additional water for the area by de-
veloping new pump wells and diversions from the Aliakmon River providing 5.5
Mm3 and 54.5 Mm3 respectively. The remainder of the gross requirement (103
Mm3) would be supplied from existing project area sources. Reliability of the
Aliakmon supply is assured by the existing 1,300 Mm3 Polyphytos storage
reservoir on the river just above the project diversion. All sources of
water are of high quality and an assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the Borrower would maintain a satisfactory quality of the irrigation
water supplying the Project Area through regular monitoring and analysis
and by requiring corrective action by industries if their effluents reduce
water quality to unsatisfactory levels.
E. Water Rights
4.14      Project water sources do noL involve any international streams.
Water rights for the project lands are granted by Government decree through
the Ministry of Coordination and Planning to the TOLVs. The Ministry of
Agriculture and PPC have agreed to reduce irrigation supplies from the Edessa
River from 5.0 to 2.5 m3/sec while increasing diversions from the Aliakmon
River by 11.0 m3/sec of irrigation in the Project Area. These increased
diversions would provide adequate supplies for Arapitsa and Tripotamos areas
and new wells to be constructed under the project additional water needed for
the Edessa area. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that to ensure
the regular supply of irrigation water required for the optimum cultivation
of the Project Area:



- 12 -
(a) a minimum flow rate of 15.5 m3 per second of irrigation water
would be provided during the peak-demand period, of which a
minimum flow rate of 7 m3 and of 2.5 m3 per second shall be
respectively extracted from the Aliakmon River and the Edessa
River; and
(b) in the event of a planned reallocation of water extracted from
the Aliakmon and Edessa Rivers, which would affect the Project
supply of irrigation water, the Borrower would inform the Bank
before such reallocation is made and provide an alternative
carrying the lowest economic cost to either replace or modify
Project facilities as necessary and to cover any cost increases.
F. Status of Engineering
4.15      Surveys, studies and investigations for the East Vermion Irrigation
Project, including hydrogeological studies, have been completed. Preparation
of final drawings and tender documents are underway and scheduled for comple-
tion by December 1975. The designs and specifications are being prepared by
Greek consulting firms acceptable to the Bank under LRS direction. The in-
vestigations have been done in adequate detail and the designs and construc-
tion specifications are adequate to proceed with tenders.
G. Flood Flows
4.16      None of the major project structures would be located on streams
subject to flooding. The regulating reservoirs would all be located off-
stream where they would be unaffected by flood run off. A small diversion
structure would be installed on a headwater tributary of the Tripotamos
River. It would incorporate a 50 meter long concrete overflow crest an-
chored to sound bedrock and would safely bypass anticipated flood flows
of the tributary.
H. Construction Schedule
4.17      Project construction is scheduled to start in the fall of 1976 and
be comp.leted by December 1979. The construction work would be scheduled to
minimize interference with irrigation and crop production. The construction
and expenditures schedule is shown in Annex 5.



- 13 -
I.- Cost Estimate
4.18      The total project cost is estimated at US$89.8 million, including
the Xanthi-Komotini study and site investigations, as well as physical con-
tingencies, expected price increases and interest during construction, but
net of taxes. The foreign exchange component would be about US$40.8 million
(45%). The foreign exchange component includes the estimated direct cost
of foreign purchases of equipment and materials and foreign consultants and
training, and indirect cost of imported capital assets and materials used in
the local manufacturing or assembly of project equipment. That portion of
PPC's costs for constructing transmission facilities chargeable to the project
are included in project costs. The cost estimates are summarized below and
shown in detail in Annex 6. Discrepancies are due to rounding.
Drachma Million          US$ Million       Foreign
Category                    Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total Exchange
A. IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Civil Works            799.0   538.9  1337.9   26.8   18.0   44.8    40
Equipment for Irri-
gation                 28.2   139.5   167.7    0.9    4.7    5.6-.  83
Electrical Network       7.5      7.5    15.0    0.3    0.2    0.5    50
Equipment for O&M,
Research & Extension   0.7    13.1    13.8        -     0.4    0.4    95
Land Acquisition       125.0       -    125.0    4.2      -      4.2     0
Administration          73.6       -     73.6    2.5      -      2.5     0
Consultants and
Training                6.6      5.4    12.0    0.2    0.2    0.4    45
Sub-Total        1040.6   704.4  1745.0   34.9   23.5   58.4    40
B. XANTIII-KOMOTINI STUDY
Civil Works and
Equipment              21.7    40.3    62.0    0.7    1.3    2.0    65
Consultants              4.2      7.5    11.7    0.1    0.3    0.4    64
Government Staff         7.0       -      7.0    0.2      -     0.2      0
Sub-Total          32.9    47.8    80.7    1.0    1.6    2.6    59
C. CONTINGENCIES
Physical Contingen-
cies                  107.0    73.4   180.4    3.6    2.5    6.1    40
Price Contingencies   283.8   193.8   477.6    9.5    6.4   15.9    40
TOTAL            1464.3  1019.4  2483.7   49.0   34.0   83.0    41
D. INTEREST DURING
CONSTRUCTION                   203.9   203.9    -        6.8    6.8   100



- 14 -
4.19      The cost estimates are based on bills of quantities prepared by the
consultants and unit prices maintained by LRS, updated at appraisal to reflect
current contract conditions. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added
for unforeseen expenditures. Allowance has been made for price increases as
follows:
1975   1976   1977--79
Civil Works                16     14       12
Equipment                  12     10        8
Price contingencies total US$16.0 million equivalent and represent about 24%
of the project base cost plus physical contingencies excluding interest during
construction.
J. Financing
4.20      A Bank loan of US$40.0 million is recommended to finance the esti-
mated foreign exchange component of civil works, equipment, consultants serv-
ices and training, applicable physical and price contingencies and US$6.0
million of interest during construction. The balance of the project costs
(US$49.0 million) and balance of interest and commitment charges (US$0.8 mil-
lion) would be financed through Government budget allocations to LRS and PPC.
K. Procurement
4.21      Three prime contracts, including civil works and project equipment
(Annex 7, Table 1), one for each of the Edessa, Arapitsa and Tripotamos areas,
and totaling about US$50.3 million, and supply contracts totaling about US$0.4
million for O&M and extension equipment exceeding US$25,000 in value, would
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines for Procurement (Annex 7, Table 2). Local manufacturers
would be allowed a 15% preference margin or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less. Contracts for material and equipment, costing less than
US$25,000 would be procured locally following regular government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, but limited to a total of US$300,000. Land leveling
would be performed by LRS forces and local contracts. The electrical network
would be constructed by PPC through local contracts and their own forces as
part of their overall development program. Both these organizations are
adequately staffed and equipped to undertake or supervise the work.
4.22      LRS would award contracts for works based on final designs prepared
by the consultants, and with consultants' assistance, would be responsible for
the preparation of all contract documents, and evaluation of bids. Plans, spe-
cifications and contract documents would when prepared be furnished to the Bank



- 15 -
for its approval. Procurement of major civil works under the project would be
limited to the three contracts of about US$15 to 25 million each to ensure
that such prime contracts would be large enough to attract wide competition.
Contracts of this size would be within the capability of several local con-
tractors.
L. Disbursement
4.23      The Bank loan would finance:
(i) 46% of the costs of civil works contracts;
(ii) full foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and materials
and 90% of the ex-factory costs of locally supplied equipment
if purchased through ICB;
(iii) 100% of foreign exchange costs of consultant services and
training; and
(iv) US$6 million of interest and other charges on the loan accrued
on or before July 31, 1980.
If the electric transmission system is constructed by contractors, disburse-
ment against works completed will be on the basis of (i) above, but if under-
taken by PPC forces, disbursement would be on the basis of (ii) above for
materials and equipment. Savings, if any, on completion of the project, would
be cancelled. An estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is presented in
Annex 8.
H. Environment and Health
4.24      The project would have no adverse effect on the environment or
health. The area is already under cultivation and is served by an outmoded
irrigation system. By reducing water losses and improving drainage, the
Project would reduce breeding of mosquitoes and other disease vectors.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      Project implementation, except electric supply works, would be tlie
responsibility of LRS, an agency within the Ministry of Agriculture, while
PPC would construct and maintain electric facilities for supplying power to
the irrigation and drainage pumps. LRS which was established under a 1958



- 16 -
legislative decree is in charge of groundwater exploitation, rehabilitation
of irrigation schemes, secondary and tertiary irrigation system construction,
surface drain and farm road construction and on-farm development throughout
Greece. LRS would conduct its operation through its regional office at
Thessaloniki and the field offices within the project area. The regional
office is headed by a Director and has 3 primary divisions: planning and
hydrogeological investigation, civil works design and construction, and admin-
istration and accounting (Annex 9). Corresponding sections of the LRS head
office at Athens would provide technical guidance and supervision. The Athens
office would prepare tender documents, review bids and award contracts. LRS
has had long experience in works of comparable size and of a similar nature
and in implementing a Bank financed project (Thessaly Groundwater Development-
Loan 754).
5.02      A senior official of LRS in Athens would be appointed as project
manager. He would be responsible for coordinating project operations with
those of various divisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, PPC and others
directly or indirectly engaged in the project (5.03) while the director of
the Thessaloniki Regional Office will manage day to day field activities.
The headquarter and regional staff of LRS are generally capable and adequate,
but the field staff is not large enough to effectively implement the project.
About 20 additional engineers and technicians, 6 additional administrative
staff and 4 additional drivers would be employed. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that Government would appoint a project manager and nec-
essary additional staff in time for the efficient execution of the project.
That the Project Manager had been appointed and had taken up his post would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
B. Project Coordination
5.03      Aside from LRS and PPC the project would require participation of
ABG, agricultural extension and research services, and water users associa-
tions. Coordination of their activities at the regional level is the respons-
ibility of the Inspector of Agriculture, a senior official of the Ministry of
Agriculture, with administrative control over all the regional agricultural
activities. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that he would con-
tinue to be responsible for such coordination and that the Project Manager,
Regional Director of LRS and the Inspector of Agriculture would cooperate
fully and exchange information as necessary to implement the project.
5.04      A steering committee headed by the Director General, Ministry of
Coordination and Planning, was created at Athens to oversee activities of
the Nestos and Yannitsa Irrigation Project. The committee comprises repre-
sentatives of the Ministries of Coordination and Planning, Public Works,
Agriculture, LRS, PPC and ABG. A committee with the same membership but
with the East Vermion Project Manager acting as Secretary (rapporteur)
would function for this project to:



- 17 -
(a) ensure consistency of project works;
(b) coordinate activities among different agencies;
(c) review project progress; and
(d) provide broad policy directions.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that such a Steering Committee
would meet at least once every six months, under the chairmanship of the
Director General concerned of the Ministry of Coordination and Planning, who
will be assisted by a Permanent Secretariat and that the chairman would report
to the Bank within one month after each meeting concerning the issues discussed
and recommendations made. That the Steering Committee had assumed its func-
tions would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
C. Operations and Maintenance
5.05      After completion, the project works would be maintained and admin-
istered by the three successfully functioning TOEVs with technical assistance
from LRS. Central workshop facilities of the General Farmers' Water Users
Association (GOEV) for the Salonica Plain would be used for ptumping plant
maintenance. The GOEV. assisted by LRS, would also coordinate water supplies
and relations between the three area TOEVs. The TOEVs would collect O&M
charges as they do at present. PPC would operate and maintain project electric
networks. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the irrigation and
drainage facilities serving farmers in the project area would be properly
operated and maintained by the responsible authorities.
D. Supporting Agricultural Services
5.06      Extension services would continue to be provided by the Inspector-
ate of Agriculture in Thessaloniki. The existing staff would be increased
and equipped to improve efficiency (para 3.21). Research programs of exist-
ing stations are being expanded and geared to meet project needs (para 3.22).
Agricultural credit would continue to be provided by ABG through its existing
offices. Credit arrangements are adequate and since the project's incremental
demand would be minimal, no special provisions would be necessary (Annex 1).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower would:
(a)  provide adequate agricultural supporting services in the
Project Area including an appropriately equipped agricultural
,extension service staffed with competent personnel in ade-
quate numbers;
(b)  ensure that the agricultural research and experiment institutes
and stations serving the Project Area will at all times be
appropriately equipped and staffed with competent personnel
in adequate numbers; and



- 18 -
(c) ensure the availability of an adequate volume of short-,
medium- and long-term agricultural credit to the farmers in
the Project Area.
During negotiations, understandings were reached on the number of additional
staff and quantity of new equipment which would be furnished for agricultural
research and the extension service and the quantity of equipment for O&M to be
procured under the loan.
E. Consultants
5.07      Consultants are currently employed by Government on the East Vermion
Project and an estimated 125 man-months of consultant time - over and above
a like amount already used - will be required to complete preparation of final
designs and specifications and to assist in bid evaluation. Consultants would
also be retained to prepare a feasibility study for an irrigation project
located in the Xanthi-Komotini and neighboring areas for the development of
surface and groundwater resources therein, based on the best economic use of
resources, and subsequently, select an area and prepare detailed designs and
cost estimates for a future project. Approximately 250 man-months of consult-
ant time, including 50 man-months of foreign expertise in hydrogeologic eval-
uation and pressure irrigation distribution system design would be required
for these Xanthi-Komtini studies and designs. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that engineering consultants mutually acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank would be employed on mutually satisfactory terms and conditions
to assist the Borrower in preparing designs and specifications and bid eval-
uation and to undertake the feasibility study and project preparation for the
Xanthi-Komotini area.
F. Recovery of Project Costs
5.08      At present, beneficiaries of existing irrigation facilities in the
project area pay an average water charge of Dr 807/ha (US$27) to meet O&M
costs (Annex 10). The payment is made on an area basis rather than water
volume. This system is simple and familiar to farmers, has been working ef-
ficiently and, therefore, merits continuation. Water charges have increased
annually by about 7% between 1965 and 1970 and by 10% annually between 1970
and 1974 demonstrating the practicability of increasing the water charges when
necessitated by rising costs. After implementing the project, the O&M costs
would increase to US$64!ha in 1975 values and their full recovery would in-
volve a larger increase than at any time in the past. Nevertheless, there
should be no difficulty in recovering full O&M costs because of the farmers
desire to get irrigation water as a means of improving their incomes. Since
O&M costs will be shared equally by all project water users the relatively
high operating costs for new wells to be installed to provide water for the
Edessa area will not place an excessive cost burden on the farmers of that
area.



- 19 -
5 .09     Rlecovery of full investment costs, however, is precluded under a
Greek law passed in December 1972 which exempts farmers from payment of most
of the capital costs of land improvement projects. Through negotiations with
Greece for the two earlier Ban', financed projects, a formula, acceptable to
the Bank and falling within the framework of Greek law, was derived. It pro-
vided for a partial recovery to account for depreciation plus full recovery
of O&M costs. For Nestos and Yannitsa Project (Irrigation II), total charges
in 1974 values amounted to about US$100/ha/year of which the level of partial
recovery was US$21/ha/yr or 27% of the O&M cost including cost of electricity.
For the first project (Groundwater I), the level of recovery was lower (US$17/
ha/year). For the East Vermion Project all farmers who cultivate land served
by the project's irrigation or drainage facilities would be charged an annual
fee per hectare of cultivated land. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that these annual charges would be established and collected through the TOEVs
and that they would be at levels sufficient to cover:
(a)  the actual O&M costs of the irrigation and drainage facilities
including the cost of power; and
(b)  as of the second year of supply of water under the project, an
additional amount, not less than the equivalent of Dr 500/ha
and to be adjusted annually from the (late of the Loan Agreement
in proportion to changes in the actual costs of O&M.
5.10      Present annual water charges to cover 0&M in the project area aver-
age Dr 807/ha (US$27/ha), which could be supplemented by the additional Dr
500/ha (US$17/ha) after the date of the Loan Agreement. Following implementa-
tion of the project O&M costs are estimated to rise to about Dr 1,910/ha
(USS64/ha) and with a corresponding increase in the additional amount, the
total water charge would be about Dr 3,100/ha (IJS$104/ha) in 1975 values.
This would represent about 10% of incremental farr income.
5.11      The proposed level of recovery, discounted over 40 years at 10%,
would result in 32% of project costs being recovered, or a corresponding sub-
sidy to farmers of 68%. This level of recovery is justified by the low per
capita income in the project area which presently averages about US$630 for
families cultivating typical farms of about 2 ha and would increase to about
US$1,080 with the project. These figures may be compared with the 1974
national per capita GNP (Atlas basis) of about US$1,780. The discounted
recovery would amount to Dr 558 million (US$18.6 million) out of a discounted
total cost of Dr 1,750 million (US$52.5 million). This 32% level of cost re-
covery compares with about 23% for the previous irrigation project (Nestos and
Yannitsa), but would maintain an adequate incentive for farmers to use project
facilities.
G. Monitoring of Project
5.12      In order to monitor project performance, the Borrower would furnish
the Bank with quarterly progress reports in which actual physical progress
would be compared with target performance and in which attention would be
focussed on problems encountered. Agricultural data would also be collected



- 20 -
on cropped areas, yields, prices and costs of production inputs and would
form the basis of a report at the end of each crop season. The reporting
requirements and the need to establish indicators by which performance can
be monitored was discussed during negotiations.
H. Accounts and Audit
5.13      Both LRS and the TOEVs concerned would maintain separate accounts
for the project, and in addition to the TOEVs would operate a central account
into which revenues from that part of the water charge over and above the
O&M cost would be paid. These accounts would be audited annually and the
Auditor General of the Ministry of Finance has sufficient autonomy to be ac-
ceptable to the Bank to perform this function. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that:
(a) the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
project execution and any GOEV or TOEV having jurisdiction
over any part of the project area would maintain or be re-
quired to maintain separate accounts in respect of the
project (including revenues generated by water charges and
expenditures for O&M); and
(b) the Government's auditing services of the Ministry of
Finance would audit the project accounts in any such GOEV
or TOEV and that audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank in respect of such accounts within six months at the
end of each fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      The cropping pattern in the project area in which orchards predomi-
nate is unlikely to change appreciably in the future. Without the project,
irrigation water availability is a major constraint on increased cropping
intensity. Even with the project, the scope for modification is limited by
farmers' preference for orchard crops and the fact that most of the area is
already under established fruit trees. The project, would however, stabilize
production, and improve fruit quality largely as a result of adequate and
timely availability of water. A small expansion in the area of peach orchards
is anticipated combined with substantial increase in production. A reduction
in area and production of winiter cereals, an increase in production of maize,
a decrease in area but small increase in output of cotton, and increases both
in area and production of sugarbeet, fodder crops and vegetables are also
forecast. The cropping pattern and intensity and incremental production at
present and at full development in 1987, would be as follows (Annex 1, Table 3):



- 21 -
Cropped Area          Production          Incremental
('000 ha)           ('000 tons)         Production
Present  With Project  Present  With Project  ('000 tons)
Wheat                  3.2          1.4          7.4         5.3          -2.1
Maize (main crop)      0.9          1.2          3.4         7.8           4.4
Maize (catch crop)      -          (1.2)          -          5.4           5.4
Cotton                 2.2          1.6          4.2         4.8           0.6
Sugarbeet              0.3          0.6         15.0        36.0          21.0
Food legumes           0.4          0.5          0.6         1.3           0.7
Vegetables             0.7          1.0         13.3        27.0          13.7
Alfalfa                 1.4         2.1         14.2        31.5          17.3
Peach                  9.6         10.8        147.8       216.0          68.2
Apple                  3.0          3.0         53.4        72.0          18.6
Other fruits           1.5          1.5         18.9        30.0          11.1
Other crops            0.2          0.3          1.6         3.0           1.4
Fallows                0.6           -            -           -             -
24.0        24.0
Cropping intensity   98%           105%
B. Market Prospects
6.02      Future produce to be marketed would comprise, in order of importance
by value, tree fruits (77%), fodder and industrial crops (17%), vegetables and
food legumes (4%) and other crops (2%).
6.03      Peaches.  With the project, peach production would increase by about
68 thousand tons; about 26% of the increase would come from young trees now
beginning to bear.
Future Production
Present            With             Incremental
Production        Project             Production
----------------'000 tons--------------------
Table Peaches               139.8            158.8                 20.0
Industrial Peaches            8.0             56.2                 48.2
147.8            216.0                 68.2
Processed fruit would require the development of export outlets, particularly
to Western Europe. Although there would be some competition from established
suppliers the export market prospects are reasonably good. By subsidizing
plantings of industrial peach varieties between 1966 and 1974, Government has
encouraged the production of canning peaches which are less affected by export
market constraints than table varieties. The Project area already has a
large canning capacity and this is being further expanded for large-scale
exports. Consumption of canned food, including fruit and vegetables, has



- 22 -
grown rapidly in the countries of the EEC during the past decade and imports
have continued to rise in spite of increasing domestic production. Fresh
table fruit, however, may face marketing problems, albeit surmountable due
largely to well organized marketing facilities and an elaborate sorting,
packing, storage, transport and intelligence system. The better irrigation
facilities combined with extension service would facilitate varietal changes
geared to industrial and off-season production as well as quality improvement
especially suited to export and domestic markets.
6.04      Apples.  The annual output of apples in Greece is about 230,000
tons. Due to competition and because varieties commonly grown are not pop-
ular in Europe, exports are negligible, usually only 2,000 tons of fresh fruit
and small quantities of juice each year. Present production approximates
to domestic demand and producer prices fluctuate widely with seasonal yield
and output, from Dr 2 to 18/kg. Apple production is shifting from plain
to uplands as "mountain" apples from the project area are preferred in Greece
and fetch higher prices than apples from the plains. In addition, varietal
changes now underway, would improve export possibilities. Even if the plant-
ed area remains static, project production would increase by about 19,000
tons with full irrigation. This is about 8% of present production in Greece
and such an increment will not aggravate the marketing problem, in view of
the time span of development and varietal policies.
6.05      Pears.  Production of pears falls somewhat short of domestic de-
mand. There is no export nmarket. The country's total production has aver-
aged 107,000 tons over the last five years, with a variation from 88,000
to 120,000 tons. There is scope for only limited increase in output as
the crop is not popular with farmers because of the wide fluctuation in
yield and quality from year to year. The small increase foreseen, equiv-
alent to about 4% of average annual production, would not create marketin-
problems.
6.06      Other Tree Fruits.  These are mainly cherries and apricots.  There
is a small export of the latter; about 11,000 tons for all Greece in 1973.
As cherries from the area are of high quality, black and firm, prospects
for increased production and marketing are good. Picking labor however is
the main constraint, as with all small fruit. Any increase in output of
these fruits would be readily absorbed by domestic demands.
6.07      Fodder and Feed Crops.  The production of alfalfa, maize and other
feed and fodder crops in Greece is well below the requirements of the gradual-
ly developing livestock subsector. Demand is high and prices are good. Al-
though livestock husbandry within the project is minor at present, it is
expected that all the increased production will be wholly and readily absorb-
ed within and around the project area, providing some increase in livestock
products, particularly milk.
6.08      Industrial Crops.  The demand for cotton, both for the domestic
industrv and for export. partly as finished materials, has been good. The



- 23 -
small expected increase in output of cotton would create no marketing prob-
lem. Sugar beet production would be expected to double, but Greece imports
about one-third of her sugar ;tiuirements. Considerable factory capacity
exists and further expansion is planned. In the meantime, the factory at
Plati, with a capacity in excess of 550,000 tons of beet, provides an out-
let for the crop from the project area.
6.09      Vegetables.  There is considerable local demand for vegetables in
urban centers and for processing. Demand from the processing plants is in-
creasing particularly for tomatoes, and there are firm plans for a large
expansion of cannning and dehydrated vegetable production. Exports of tomato
paste have increased steadily from under 12,000 tons in 1968 to over 62,000
tons in 1973. In 1974 production again reached a record level. A recent
development is the export of fresh tomatoes for canning to Yugoslavia. The
future for this outlet is uncertain. East Vermion is favorably situated to
take advantage of further developments.
6.10      Food Legumes.  The main food legumes are dry beans, chick peas and
lentils. Beans and lentils offer some scope for import substitution, though
imports are relatively small. In 1973, 7,400 tons of dry beans and 9,900
tons of lentils, with a combined value of Dr 212 million were imported. A
good white bean is also produced for which export markets exist.
6.11      Other Crops.  These are mainly table grapes and strawberries.  Al-
though the area is not particularly suitable for table grapes, vineyards
exist and with the project some increase in production may be expected. The
production would sell on the local market, especially if late fruit of suit-
able varieties is produced. Strawberry production is increasing in response
to regional demands. The present output finds a ready local market.
C.  Prices
6.12      Commodities.  Two sets of farmgate prices were used in the project
appraisal (Annex 11), one for economic analysis which is net of taxes and
duties and the other for the financial analysis of farm budgets and incomes.
The economic prices for grains, cotton and sugar beet (as derived from sugar
prices) were related to those forecast by the Bank's Economic Analysis and
Projections Department taking into account whether each commodity is imported
or exported. Freight and insurance expenses were estimated as US$25/ton and
local transport at Dr 3 ton/km. The prices of peaches were estimated by
updating 1973-74 average farmgate prices, and allowing for market prospects
as determined in consultations with farmers and Greek and FAO commodity ex-
perts. The effect of the project on peach prices through better fruit quality
and increased early and late production (Annex 2, Table 1), was also taken
into account. Prices of other less important crops were based on updated
average farmgate prices. Prices used for financial analysis were based on
current farmgate prices, including subsidies, as recorded by the Ministry of
Agriculture, and maintained during the project life since no change is anti-
cipated in Government's present policy of intervention through income supports
and input subsidies.



- 24 -
6.13      Farm Inputs.  The costs of seed, fertilizer, and contract machinery
used in the economic and financial analysis were based on current prices in
Greece and adjusted for taxes and subsidies for economic analysis.  Family
labor was costed at Dr 200/day and hired labor at Dr 200/day rising to Dr
250/day during the peak season. Electricity was costed at Dr 1/kWh, the
current tariff which is in line with the present fuel price of US$10 per bar-
rel in Greece. Electricity accounts for onlv 20% of the O&M costs and a
higher cost would not materially change the analysis.
D. Farmers' Income
6.14      At full development in 1987, the average net farm income for a ty-
pical family (average 4.5 persons) operating a holding of 2 ha., mainly under
orchards, is estimated at Dr 145,582 (US$4,869). A family with a 1 ha irri-
gated farm, mainly under annual crops, would have a farm related income of
Dr 56,944 (US$1,904). These incomes compare with Dr 84,781 (US$2,835) and
Dr 36,149 (US$1,209) without the project for average 2 and 1 ha farms, re-
spectively and represent an improvement in the net income of a family farming
2 ha by 72% and that of a family farming 1 ha by 58%. Detailed farm budgets
are given in Annex 12, Tables 1 through 3.
E. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
u.15      Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return, using the above cri-
teria, and costing all labor at market wages is estimated at 18.5%. Sensi-
tivity tests show that even with unfavorable prices and outputs, the rate of
return would not fall below 12.5% (Annex 13).
6.16      Least Cost Alternative.  The project consultants considered and
evaluated several alternative plans of development before selecting the proj-
ect plan. These alternative studies were reviewed at the time of appraisal
and the adopted plan was found to be the most economical and physically fea-
sible means of developing and utilizing the available water resources for
irrigation of the project lands.
6.17      Output.  The quantifiable benefits of the project would include
increased output, foreign exchange earning/saving and employment. Produc-
tion would begin to increase in 1977 and reach full development by 1987.
From that year onwards, the annual net value of production at 1975 economic
prices would be Dr 1,163 nillion (US$38.9 million) compared with Dr 626 mil-
lion (US$20.9 million) without the project; an increment of Dr 537 million
(US$18.0 million) before payment of project related charges of Dr 46 million
(US$1.5 million).



- 25 -
6.18      Foreign Exchange.  Export of fresh fruit and processed fruits,
vegetables and cotton would provide additional foreign exchange, and the
import substitution for maize and sugar would save foreign exchange. The
net impact on foreign exchange resources would be around US$10 million per
year, assuming 70% of the incremental production to be exportable or to sub-
stitute for imports, and 20% of incremental production costs to be in foreign
exchange.
6.19      Employment.  The project would provide employment opportunities
for 13,900 farm families which are currently underemployed and in some cases
unemployed. Family labor utilization would increase by 20% and hired labor
by 64% and the working season would be extended. The additional labor needs
are estimated as 3,200 man years, each of 225 work days, Details of direct
labor requirements and its seasonal spread are given in Annex 14, Tables 1
and 2. Moreover, additional jobs would be created in the project related
transport, distribution, processing and commercial activities.
6.20      The main project beneficiaries would be the farmers of the project
area and an unknown but substantial number of landless workers in and around
the area who would be employed directly or indirectly.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principle
issues:
(a)  in the event of a planned reallocation of water extracted
from the Aliakmon and Edessa Rivers, which would affect the
Project supply of irrigation water, the Borrower would inform
the Bank before such reallocation is made and provide an al-
ternative carrying the lowest economic cost to either replace
or modify Project facilities as necessary and to cover any
cost increases (Para 4.14); and
(b)  annual charges would be established and collected through the
TOEVs and that they would be at levels sufficient to cover:
(i)  the actual O&M costs of the irrigation and drainage
facilities including the cost of power; and
(ii)  as of the second year of supply of water under the
project, an additional amount, not less than the equiv-
alent of Dr 500/ha and to be adjusted annually from the
date of the Loan Agreement in proportion to changes in
the actual costs of O&M (Para 5.09).
7.02      With the appropriate assurances and subject to the conditions of
Loan Effectiveness described in paragraphs 5.02 and 5.04, requiring that the
Project Manager had taken up his post and the Steering Committee had assumed
its functions, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$40.0 million.
The loan would be repayable over 15 years including a 5-1/2 year grace period.
The Borrower would be the Government of the Hellenic State.
August 7, 1975






ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
GREECE
Agriculture
A. Project Features
1.        Topography and Soils.  The area, in general, slopes downward to the
east and south, from an elevation of about 450 m in the mountain section of
Edessa to 19 m in the south of Tripotamos. Much of it has a relatively flat
and even terrain, with slopes of 0.2 to 0.6%, but there is a considerable area
of semi-mountainous country in the Vermion foothills, mainly within Edessa and
Arapitsa. This upland region is dissected by mountain streams and has an un-
even relief with irregular slopes averaging about 5%, increasing locally to
15% and, exceptionally to 30%.
2.        The soils are mainly alluvial and young alluvial deposits, with
col'Luvial and residual soils in the semi-mountain zone, derived from cretaceous
limestone, travertine, schist and sandstone. They are of medium to heavy tex-
ture, ranging from medium or sandy and silty loams (27%) to clay loams (40%)
and clays (32%), commonly with some admixture of gravel. Reaction is neutral
to slightly alkaline (pH 6.8 to 8.0) and they are high in calcium carbonate.
3.        Water retention capacity is moderate to high.  Infiltration rates
are satisfactory for irrigation. Drainage is generally good, except in the
restricted areas of ponding in the south. All soils are free of excess salts.
Intrinsic fertility is moderate, with deficiencies of nitrogen and phosphorus
which can be remedied by appropriate fertilizer application.
4.        The land capability classification is shown in Table 1.  Over 60%
has been classified as "suitable for all crops" (Classes I, II and III). About
32% is Class IV, limited in use because of slopes, but suitable for fruit trees
with the use of well established techniques of contour furrows and terrace-
basin irrigation. The small area of Class V land (0.2%) is presently unsuit-
able for cropping because of poor drainage, but this can be corrected. The
1,600 ha of Class VI, unsuitable for any form of agriculture, has been ex-
cluded from the project.
5.        Population and Labor.  Population data for the project area are
shown in Table 2. In contrast with most of rural Greece, the population
of the project area is increasing. The total is estimated at 94,900 persons
of whom 32,700 (34.5%) are classified as urban dwellers in the larger towns
and 62,200 (65.5%) as members of rural farm families. The number of rural
families is reported to be 13,900, giving an average family of 4.5 persons,
of whom at least two are of working age. The rural labor population is



ANNEX 1
Page 2
approximately 29,900 persons half of whom are women who have household duties.
Work days in the field, restricted by weather, are normally 225 in the year.
Annual labor requirement estimated at 1.8 million man-days without the project
increasing to 2.5 million with the project, and seasonal labor demand for
agricultural operations, are shown in Annex 14, Tables 1 and 2.
6.        The project would increase the labor need by about 3,200 man-years
of 225 working days of 8 hours each. This would be met by increasing family
work output to the equivalent of 260 working days in the year and employing
64% more hired labor, mainly during July-September.
7.        Families with very small holdings have surplus labor available
for hire even at peak periods, but this would not meet the demand. The
supply is, however, augmented by unemployed and underemployed town dwellers
and by people from the pastoral mountain villages and seasonal workers from
the poor areas of East Macedonia and Thrace which represent a labor reserve
of unknown magnitude.
8.        The labor demand during fruit harvest is large, although only
about 20 to 25% of farmers (the larger growers, and those whose children
have emigrated) hire labor for picking. The normal current wage is about
Dr 200 per 8 hour-day, but demand from packing and grading plants forces up
the labor rate at fruit harvest time to about Dr 250.
9.        Climate.  There is some variation with altitude but the three areas
have similar climate of a Mediterranean-Continental character. No month is
wholly rainless. Total annual precipitation ranges from about 550 mm to 675
mm, of which about 30% occurs in winter, 25% in spring, 15% in summer and 30%
in autumn. The three dry months, when irrigation is most necessary, extend
from mid-June to mid-September. The mean annual temperature is about 15.8°C,
and monthly means range from 4.8°C in January to 27.6°C in July. Frosts
occur from October to March, but are rarely severe. Snow falls, on average
during 10 days of the year, usually in December-January, and hail on 2 days
a year.
10.       The project area is protected by the mountain barrier from the
strong, cold winds characteristic of the Thessaloniki plain. This protection,
combined with favorable temperatures, relatively high rainfall in comparison
with the Thessaloniki plain to the east, low incidence of hail and infrequent
occurrence of damaging frosts, makes the area one of the most suitable in
Greece for the production of deciduous fruits, given adequate irrigation in
the critical period.
i1.       Land Consolidation and Farm Enlargement.  In Greece the average farm
consists of about 7 parcels aggregating 3.3 ha with considerable regional
variations. This subdivided and fragmented structure is the result of a large
rural population dependent on land for a livelihood and of inheritance laws
which provide for an equal share by all children in the estate of the parents.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
12.       Many operated holdings include both owned and rented land.  There
are about one million farm holdings in Greece but only 712,000 operating
farmers, indicating more than a quarter of the holdings are owned by absentees.
13.       Government is conscious of the problems of farm structure.  Land
consolidation and enlargement of farms are regarded as basic requirements
for productivity improvement. With intensification of the long-established
program of land consolidation, holdings are being consolidated at a rate of
about 50,000 ha a year. Where land comes under public irrigation schemes
consolidation is compulsory (except in the case of established orchards) and
elsewhere is operated on a voluntary basis if a majority of farmers vote in
its favor. Of the 51,000 ha consolidated in 1973, 10,500 were voluntary and
30,500 compulsory.
14.       Prevention of refragmentation and enlargement of farms present
more formidable difficulties. Financial and institutional aids to encourage
transfers of land between farmers are under consideration, including credit
for land purchases additional to that now provided, establishment of an agency
to purchase and redistribute land and exemption from transfer taxes in certain
cases.
15.       The Land Consolidation Service has 250 survey teams in the field.
They are all fully engaged and there is an estimated need for at least 300
teams to maintain the present rate of progress.
16.       For reasons discussed in the text, land consolidation in East
Vermion is not urgently necessary and would present most formidable difficul-
ties. It is therefore proposed to exempt the area from this requirement.
17.       Land Use, Yields and Production.  Detailed estimates of the area's
current output and expected production by 1987 both without the project and
at full project development are given in Table 3.
B. Supporting Services
18.       Subsidies and Supports.  Government agricultural policy has been
directed towards a number of ends, including the betterment of rural living
conditions, increased output with adjustment of supply to changing demand,
and improvement of the balance of payments. To achieve these ends an elaborate
structure of income transfers (price supports), production grants and support-
ing services has been created. This complex of supports and services is
necessary to maintain some improvement of living standards for the working
agricultural population, and to contain the large and growing sectoral and
regional income disparity caused by land shortage and small fragmented
holdings. Support to agriculture totalled Dr 2,228.8 million in 1970 and Dr
3,996.8 million in 1973. Of this, income transfers (price support) accounted
for Dr 1,555.6 million and production grants and incentives for Dr 2,441.2
million. At that level, support amounted to Dr 5,613 for each operated farm
holding.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
19.       The greatest part of price support expenditure is accounted for
by traditional products, oriental tobacco, raisins, sultanas and grapes,
and incentives to expand newer products, mainly citrus, cotton, tomatoes
(for processing) and milk. Payments have also been made to encourage hybrid
maize as a second crop, and wheat and barley in mountain regions.
20.       Expansion of farm inputs has been greatly aided by subsidies.
Fertilizers are subsidized up to 30% and chemicals up to 50% of the cost.
Subsidies range from 20% to 55% of cost for farm machinery, 50% for establish-
ment of cattle units, and 30% of the cost for buildings and foundation
livestock. Subsidies have also been granted for seeds and nursery stock,
for livestock feed, veal production, rearing of heifers to first calf and a
wide range of other purposes.
21.       Agricultural Credit.  ABG with 181 branches throughout the country,
is the only significant source of credit for farmers. It is financed by
deposits from the public (Dr 9.6 billion as of November 1974) and by the Bank
of Greece. Bank of Greece funds are borrowed at 1% up to Dr 15 billion and
at 5% for drawings in excess of this.
22.       ABG extends short-, medium-, long-term  and special loans to
farmers and agricultural industries, participates as equity holder in
agricultural industries, administers Government subsidy programs for the
agricultural sector, handles inputs such as fertilizers, seed and plant
protection chemicals through the National Agency of Cooperatives, and gives
considerable supplementary advisory service to farmers through its field
staff. So wide are the ramnifications of the Bank's activities that they
affect virtually all farmers, 90% of then being borrowers. No security
other than note of hand is asked for loans up to Dr 300,000. For larger
loans, security in the form of land, buildings, livestock or cther assets
is required.
23.       The lending program for 1974 was Dr 37 billion.  Short-term loans,
two-thirds of which were production loans to farmers, accounted for Dr 20
billion.  These are normally for less tharn a year, and comnonly for six or
seven months. The current interest rate is 7% for individual farmers and
6-25% if obtained through cooperative societies which contract about 60% of
short-term loans.
24.       The ratio of long- and medium-term to short-term borrowing, which
had been increasing, fell back in 1973 and declined further in 1974, partly
owing to cost pressures but also because loans for housing and for production
of pork and poultry were discontinued. The purpose of borrowings in the
medium- and long-term categories were, in 1974, as follows: farm development
(61%); farm buildings (24%); agrictultural industry (9%); others (mainly
fisheries) (6%).
25.       Medium-term loans are, generally, for periods of 1 to 8 years and
long-term loans for periods of 8 to 20 years. In both cases current interest



ANNEX 1
Page 5
rates are 6% to individual farmers and 5-1/2% through cooperative societies,
but low-cost loans at a rate of 3% are available for a few specific purposes,
mainly irrigation development and the purchase of milk cows.
26.       The repayment record is satisfactory.  About three quarters of
short-term loans are repaid when due, and most of the remainder shortly
afterwards. Repayment of medium- and long-term loans is more variable, with
the success or failure of the farming year. In cases of default, field
agents of the Bank investigate and press for payment or make arrangements
for easy repayment. As a last resort, the Bank may sue the defaulters.
Interest on overdue loans in all categories is 9%.
27.       With branches of the ABG at Veria, Naousa and Alexandria, the
project is well served as regards credit facilities. Specific information
on the amount of loans to project farmers is not available, but the three
branches serving the project area increased their short-term lending from
Dr 0.7 billion in 1972 to Dr 1.0 billion in 1974. Medium- and long-term
loans, however, decreased from Dr 0.27 to 0.18 million mainly due to stopping
of loans for housing which previously accounted for a fourth of this total.
28.       The agricultural cooperatives have lost some ground, in the last
five years, to the private trading sector in a number of functions, particu-
larly marketing. The main constraint on the development of cooperatives
has been, and remains, their very small size at the local level. At inter-
mediate level, the Unions of Cooperatives and the Central Cooperative
Organizations still play a specialist role in marketing; while the Pan
Hellenic Federation exercises a coordinating function it has no executive
authority.
L9.       Farm Inputs.  The standard of farming is high in the project area,
particularly in regard to orchard practice. Fertilizers, improved seeds and
plant protection chemicals are readily available and almost universally used
for orchards and arable crops. Details of future fertilizer use with and
without the project based on preliminary results from ongoing fertilizer trials
in the project area are given in Table 4.
30.       Farm machinery, owned and hired, is extensively used, greatly reduc-
ing labor needs. With 1,100 tractors of over 25 hp, 510 light tractors of
under 20 hp and 34 combines, not to mention draught animals equivalent to
another 200 heavy tractors, the area is well provided with farm power and
ancillary equipment.
31.       Extension and Research.  East Vermion is in the Agricultural In-
spectorate of Thessaloniki, one of the seven major regional divisions of
the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for extension activities. Four ex-
tension sections cover and extend beyond the project area. Each has only
one professional officer, a university graduate in agriculture, but he
can call on the services of fourteen specialists, including fruit production
and marketing specialists. Out of 35 farmer's training centers in Greece,
one serves the project farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
32.       The situation in the project area reflects a general shortage of
field officers, but the level of efficiency is high.  Craduates from the
university schools of agriculture in Athens and Thessaloniki are now readily
available. The duties of the field worker are heavy. He may be responsible
for as many as 15 rural communities averaging 250 farm families per community,
and he has much additional routine work, including the collection of agricul-
tural statistics. Local staff of the ABC are also involved in extension
work, particularly with regard to fertilizer practice and the use of equip-
ment.
33.       The extension work would be further intensified in the project to
assist in the direction of varietal change in crops, to improve irrigation
practices for water economy, to refine fertilizer practices for optimal re-
sults, to rectify trace element deficiencies which mav result from increasing
yields, and to encourage diversification such as introduction of nectarines,
soft fruit, vegetables and small-scale dairying.
34.       Thessaloniki has one of the country's largest agricultural experi-
ment stations, and there are institutes and stations concerned with specific
crops, soils and fertilizers, phytopathology, livestock and general agronomy.
For the most part they are fairly well staffed and equipped. Impressive
series of fertilizer trials are being conducted throughout Greece, not only
on stations but on farmers' lands under farming conditions. They cover all
the major soil variants and principal crops including the nutrient require-
ments of fruit trees and the possibilities of applying foliar diagnosis
techniques in orchards. Two years of an initial five-year program have
been completed and significant indications are beginning to emerge.
35.      nTo of the stations are of particular importance to the project:
the horticultural experiment station at Naousa and the research station
of the Land Reclamation Service near Thessaloniki. The former is working
on tree fruits, particularly types capable of withstanding transport for
several days, while meeting the quality required by the European market.
Only the LRS station is specifically concerned with plant water requirements
and irrigation practices, but its work has been confined mainly to the
Thessaloniki plain and to arable crops. Additional research would focus
on water requirements of crops, the time of water application and irrigation
practices. Extension and research work would be augmented through additional
staff, essential transport and minor equipment, and the training abroad of
two specialists in irrigation and water management. Details are given in
Tables 5 and 6.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Capability Classification
Land Capability Class                               Area                    %
(ha)
Class I    -  Suitable for all crops                  600                   2.3
Class II   -  Suitable for all crops                6,050                  23.6
Class III  -  Suitable for all crops                9,100                  35.7
Class IV   - Slope limitation but
generally suitable for
tree fruits                          8,200                  31.9
Class V    -  Presently unsuitable for
crops due to poor drainage              50 /1                0.2
Class VI   -  Non-cultivable land                   1,600                   6.3
Total                                            25,60o                 100.0
/1   Will become Class III land after drainage under the project.
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Population Data
Area                                     Population                Economically Active Population             Number of Families               Mean Family Size
Urban      Rural      Total         Urban        Rural       Total       Urban      Rural      Total          Urban        Total
-(--------000)------------ ---------------('000) -----------------------------------------                    ------(No)------
Edessa Subproject                12.4        16.1       28.5          5.8           7.6        13.4        3.6         3.3        6.9           3.4         4.9
Arapitsa Subproject                7.7       20.1       27.8           3.6          9.5        13.1        2.3         4.5         6.8          3.4          4.5
Tripotamos Subproject            12.6        26.0       38.6          5.9          12.2        18.1        3.0         6.1        9.1           4.2          4.2
Project Area                   32.7       62.2        94.9         15.3          29.3        44.6       8.9         13.9       22.8           3.7         4.5
Source:  Compiled from consultants' reports and information supplied by the Directorate of Agriculture, Thessaloniki, local officials                                 H
and farmers.
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Areas Cropped. Yields and Production in the Project Area
Crop                                                     Cultivated Area                                                                           Yield LI                                                          Production /2
Present                                 Future LI                                 Present                                Puture /3                       Present                     Future /3
Without Project          With Project                                           Without Project         With Project                       Without Project         With Pro1ect
Pertially                         Partially                                        Partially                     Partially
Rainfed    Irrigated            Ramnfed       Irriated         Irrigated          Rainfed       Irrigated       Rainfed       Irrigated      Irrigated
('SEE______---------------('000 ho)-------------------------------                                                 (o/)'0 ts------------------------(to /ha)_--____________________  ----------------('OO0 ton.)-------------------
Wheat                               3.2            -                3.2              -              1.4                2.3             -             3.0            -              3.8                7.4               9.6                   5.3
Maize (noit  crop)                  0.4          0.5                0.5             0.4             1.2                2.6           4.8             2.6           4.8             6.5                3.4               3.2                   7.8
Maize (catch crop)                   -             -                 -               -             (1.2) /4             -              -              -             -              4.5                 -                 -                    5,4
Cotton                              0.3          1.9                0.2            1.9              1.6                1.2           2.0             1.2           2.3             3.0                4.2               4.6                   4.8
Sugrbheet                            -           0.3                 -             0.4              0.6                 -           50.0              -           50.0            60.0               15.0              20.0                  36.0
Food laguzsa                        0.1          0.3                0.2            0.1              0.5                0.9           1.7             0.9           1.7             2.5                0.6               0.4                   1.3
Vegetables                           -           0.7                 -              0.8             1.0                 -           19.0              -           19.0            27.0               13.3              15.2                  27.0
Alfalfa                             0.3          1.1                0.8             0.6             2.1                7.0          11.0             7.0          12.0            15.0               14.2              12.8                  31.5
Peach                                -           9.6                 -             9.6             10.8                 -           15.4              -           15.4            20.0              147.8             147.8                 216.0
Apple                               0.1          2.9                0.5             2.5             3.0               12.0          18.0            12.0          19.0            24.0               53.4              53.5                  72.0
Other tree frosts /5                0.6          0.9                0.6             0.9             1.3                9.0          15.0            10.0          15.0            20.0               18.9              19.3                  30.0
Other crops 16                       -           0.2                 -              0.2             0.3                 -            8.0              -            8.0            10.0                1.6               1.6                   3.0
Falloes                            0.6           -                                0.6               -                  --                                          -               -                  -                 -                     -
Total                             5.6         18.4                6.0           18.0             24.0
/1  Por perennial crops, average yield taken over life of the crop (i.e. 4 years for alfalfa, 25 years for peaches end pears, and 35 years for apples).
/2  Agricultural by-products  such as straw, sugarbeet leaves and pulp not included in the table wvre valued for project analysis.
/3  Projected for 1987 when project is expected to achieve full develop-ent.
L  Not included in total.
/5 Mainly pears and cherrie.
L6 Mainly strahberr-es and table grapes.
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Future Fertilizer Use With and Without the Project
Crop                                       Without Project                                        With Project
Ammonium   Ammonium       Super      Ammonium       Ammonium   Ammonium        Super      Ammonium
Nitrate    Sulfate    Phosphate   Phosphate         Nitrate    Sulfate    Phosphate   Phosphate
--------------------------------------- (Kg/ha/year) ----------------------------------------
Wheat                            -          200           -           200             -          300           -           250
Maize                           250          -            -            -            300           -            -            -
Cotton                           -          250           -           300            -          250            -           300
Sugarbeets                      150          -            -           350           180           -            -           400
Food legumes                     -           -           100          150            -            -           100          200
Vegetables                       -          100           -           200             -          100           -           200
Alfalfa                          -           -           500           -              -           -           600           -
Fruit Trees                     350         650           -            -            500       1,000            -            -
Other Crops (grapes
and strawberries)             -          100            -           200            -          100            -           200
/1   Projections for crop needs at full production.
A s  1
August 1975 



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Additional Staff Costs for Extension and Agricultural Research
Agricultural
Item                                                               Extension            Research               Total
Grade                     Salary      Number    Cost       Number    Cost       Number    Cost
(US$)                 (US$)                 (US$)              (US$)
Staff                    Agricultural Graduate       3,400        4      13,600        2        6,800       6      20,400
Technician                  2,400       4        9,600        2       4,800        6     14,400
Driver                      2,800       -          -          2        5,600       2      5,600
Laborer                     2,000       -          -          4        8,000      4       8,000
Field Allowances /1                                    -          8       4,800        6        3,600      14       8,400
/2
Vehicle Operation                                      -          4       12,800        2       6,400       6      19,200
Total                                                                  40,800                35,200              76,000
/1   Per diem costs for staff other than laborer calculated at the current rate of Dr 150/day on basis of
120 days/year.
/2   Calculated on basis of Dr 4/km for an average 24,000 km/year for each graduate staff.
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Capital Costs for Additional Equipment and Staff Training for
Extension and Agricultural Research
Item                                                        Extension        Agricultural Research         Total
Unit Cost      Number       Cost        Number        Cost          Cost
(us$)                    (uS$)                    (US$)          (US$)
Vehicles                                  8,000            4      32,000           2         16,000       48,000
Visual Aids Equipment (Lots)                250            2         500           -           -             500
Office Equipment (Lots)                     300            4       1,200           -           -           1,200
Research Equipment (Lots)                   -              -         -             1         68,000      68,000
Staff Training Overseas (Personnel)         -              -         -             2         34,400       34,400
Total                                                           33,700                    118,400      152,100
/1   Training for recent graduates in techniques for research in irrigation of tree fruits and field crops.
August 1975
ar-.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Peach Industry
1.        The peach industry is of paramount importance to the project and
accounts for nearly half of its area and, by value, of production. Its
development in the districts of Pella and Emathis, within about a decade,
has been largely influenced by Government policy, incentives and infra-
structural investment. Peach planting started in the 1950's on an extensive
scale, accelerated at the end of the decade and reached a high point in the
mid-60's when planting was subsidized. By 1966, most of the present area of
table peaches had been established and further planting was restricted by
irrigation water. Nevertheless, for reasons of marketing, a switch from
table peaches to industrial (clingstone) -peaches was subsequently encouraged
by subsidy. This subsidy was withdrawn in 1974, after it had fulfilled its
purpose with the establishment of an area sufficient to produce 100,000 tons
in the region at full bearing, with most of that being produced in the project
area. The young trees are now approaching the bearing point.
2.        Export of fresh peaches started in 1962 and, helped by an elaborate
sorting, packing, storage, transport and market intelligence system, gradually
increased. By 1974, exports, 90% to Western Europe, mainly to Germany,
reached a record of 103,000 tons, accounting by value for 5% of total agri-
cultural exports despite EEC restrictions and competition for mid-season
crop with Italy and France. Exports to other countries are small although
exporters to East Europe receive a small subsidy. Marketing outlook for mid-
season table peaches is uncertain even taking into account a rising tourist
trade and local demand., However, there is room for greater exports of early
and late varieties which, according to OECD studies, are currently two to
three times more profitable for exporters, and are easy to sell in Germany.
Also, there is demand for industrial varieties. Currently, only one-tenth
of the total output is processed - compared with 50% in North America, 66%
in South Africa and 75% in Australia - notwithstanding the availability of
unutilized canning capacity in Greece and sizeable unsaturated local demand.
3.       .Production and utilization of Greek peaches between 1961 and 1974
is shown by the following figures:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Apparent
Wastage        Exports                     Local
Year      Production          (20%)      (fresh fruit)  Processing  Consumption
----------------------------('000 tons)--------------------------
1961          75.0            15.0           26.4           1.0          32.6
1966         95.2             19.0           46.5           5.0          24.7
1971        207.0             41.0           73.2          20.0          72.8
1974        260.0             52.0          103.0          30.0          75.0
4.        With the project, there would be a shift towards late varieties of
table peaches and industrial varieties aiming at larger proportions in the
higher grades. This shift would be encouraged by provision of adequate irriga-
tion water, and extension services with the necessary varietal changes result-
ing mainly from replacement of existing trees after their economic lefe of
about 25 years and partly from new plantings. Without the project, season and
quality would shift in the wrong direction as water demend would increase and
irrigation supplies would decline due to diversion of water for electric power
generation use.
5.        Current and projected crop composition by grade and season for table
peaches are shown in Table 1. About 80% of the peach orchards are planted to
table peaches and the remainder to industrial peaches. With the project, the
higher yielding industrial peaches are expected to contribute 26% to total
peach production.
6.        Present seasonal producer prices for table peaches by grade are as
follows:
Season                                          Grade
A            B             C
------   (Dr/kg)----------
Early                               12.9         8.7           5.5
Mid-season                           5.1         3.3           2.9
Late                                 5.8         4.0           3.5
Prices of industrial peaches remain constant at about Dr 6.0/kg.



ANNEX 2
Table I
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table Peach Production according to Grade and Season
Season                                          Grade
A              B             C            Total
-________________-   _(%-)-______________________
Present Production
Early                           0.25            2.50          2.25            5.00
Mid                            11.80           35.40         11.80           59.00
Late                           10.80           19.80          5.40           36.00
Total                        22.85          57.70          19.45          100.00
Future Production,
Without Project
Early                           0.25           2.50           2.25            5.00
Mid                             2.95           29.50         26.55           59.00
Late                            1.80           18.00         16.20    -      36.00
Total                         5.00          50.00          45.00          100.00
Future Production,
With Project
Early                           5.00          12.00           3.00           20.00
Mid                            11.25           27.00          6.75           45.00
Late                            8.75          21.00           5.25           35.00
Total                        25.00          60.00          15.00          100.00
August 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Description
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project Plan
1.        One of the principal means of agricultural development in Greece
is land reclamation and water management through irrigation. Because of
inadequate precipitation during the growing season, irrigation is necessary
for increased and sustained crop production and diversification. Despite a
rapid increase in public investments in a large number of new irrigation proj-
ects in recent years, only half of the potential 1.6 million ha of irrigable
land is irrigated. Slow progress in the past has been due failure to con-
centrate investment, lack of project preparation and slow implementation,
leading to long gestation periods.
2.        In the East Vermion Project area agriculture, mainly fruit produc-
tion, is the main occupation. The output and quality of fruit is limited,
however, by available water supplies. Irrigation of the area has developed
over a long period, with progressive extension of a simple, low cost system
in which efficiency of water delivery was not crucial. Minor improvements
have been undertaken on parts of the system from time to time but there had
been no concerted effort to improve the whole system before the current project
plan. A serious deficiency of water has resulted from continuai enlargement
of the area under irrigation. Irrigated agriculture began in the higher
eastern part of the area where farmers are given priority over downstream
water users. Development in the lower plain area has resulted irn crop demand
outstripping water supply.
3.        The existing project distribution system is practically all unlined.
The channels are tortuous and, in some areas, deeply eroded due to the steep
gradients and absence of protective works. There are few measuring and con-
trol devices and turn-out to farms is usually effected by partially blocking
the channel with stones with no means of regulating the flow. Trhe capacity
of many tertiaries is too small resulting in excessively long irrigation
cycles. Frequent breakouts from the unlined channels necessitate constant
patrolling. The leakage and seepage losses from the unlined channels waste
much of the scarce water supply and cause drainage problems in the low areas.
4.        Water shortage is most critical for fruit production.  In the case
of peaches, the one prepicking irrigation which markedly improves quality,
usually cannot be given. Apples with a longer irrigation season than peaches
suffer particularly in late seasons from insufficient irrigation. Farmers in
Arapitsa and Tripotamos therefore have sizeable areas devoted to rainfed crops.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        In the Edessa area most of the irrigation water has been supplied
from the Edessa River which is fed by the upstream Agra and Karkagia springs.
The water available from these sources will be reduced from 5 m3/sec to
2.5 m3/sec due to an existing agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture
and the PPC.to provide cooling water for a 1,800 MW thermal electric power
plant now under construction near Edessa. This plant, consisting of 6-300
MW units has been under construction for 3 years at a total estimated cost
of US$600 million. Two of the 6 units are now complete and work is continuing
on the other 4. Expenditures to date amount to about US$400 million. In the
context of energy requirements this plant is essential to Greece, and there-
fore has priority over irrigation.
6.        The agreement between PPC and the Ministry of Agriculture assures
the delivery of a minimum of 2.5 m3/sec in the river below Edessa for ffuture
irrigation and also provides for the use of an additional 11 m3/sec for irriga-
tion from PPC's 1,300 million m3 Polyphytos storage reservoir on Aliakmon
River. Only 7 m3/sec out of the 11 m3/sec would be needed initially for the
proposed project. This would leave uncommitted 4 m3/sec for future irrigation
needs (Annex 4).
7.        The Project plan is based on the most economical and physically
feasible means of developing and utilizing these available water resources.
Local surface water sources in Aprapitsa and Tripotamos are fully utilized
while the groundwater supply in these areas is approaching full utilization.
Therefore, an increase of the water supplies for these two areas would be
achieved through increased diversions from the Aliakmon River and savings of
water through rehabilitation and lining of the existing distribution system.
These methods of increasing the water supply are economically justified as
indicated by the project's economic rate-of-return. Since about half of the
water diverted from the Aliakmon River will need to be pumped to the points of
use, the water saved from conveyance losses through rehabilitation and lining
of facilities would be the more economical. Considering this, along with the
savings in maintenance costs and reduction in drainage problems, the investment
in rehabilitation is justified. The pumping of diversions from the Aliakmon
River, is limited to the amount needed to meet the remaining demand.
8.        In the Edessa area, groundwater resources are not fully exploited.
Surface water sources in the area are now fully utilized and future require-
ments for PPC's new power plant will reduce the quantity available for irri-
gation. Since outside surface water sources, if utilized, would need to be
conveyed from great distances, development and pumping of additional groundwater
becomes the most feasible solution, following water savings from rehabilitation
of facili.ties. New groundwater wells will be located at the lower apex of a
funnel shaped hydrogeologic formation along the lower reaches of the Edessa
River. Groundwater studies indicate that more water than is needed for the
project could be developed from this source. It, therefore, provides a margin
of safety against unforeseen future power or industrial water uses in the area.
The hydrostatic pressure on the groundwater would raise the level of water in
the boreholes reducing the pumping head to an average of 60 meters.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
9.        C.-Osideration was i,'en to several internal alternative methods of
water delivery and distributi-i in order to select the most feasible plans of
development. The alternative of one large pumping plant at Amos, with a larger
canal to irrigate the Arapitsa area, versus the two smaller pumping plants at
Amos and MIonospita was considered. The comparative costs and operation
relationships between the Tripotamos TOEV and the Arapitsa TOEV favored the
two smaller pumping plants.  Installation of a pressure sprinkler system as a
means of saving water was also considered but not pursued because the fruit
farmers in the area found that the fruit trees restrict the operation of
sprinklers, and the additional capital costs and pumping energy costs related
to the sprinkler system were high. The selected project plan appears to be
the best of the available alternatives, technically and economically.
10.       The subproject in the Xanthi-Komotini area was proposed by Government
for development along with East Vermion. However, the appraisal mission found
that preparation work on Xanthi-Komotini was not advanced enough for appraisal
and implementation. Government's limited financial resources also indicated
that it would not be prudent to undertake developme-t of both projects simul-
taneously. Slow progress by the Government on the previous Bank financed
Groundwater I and Nestos-Yannitsa projects illustrate this point. Therefore,
only the development of the East Verr.ion Project and studies and completion
of preparation of the Xanthi-Komotini Project are reco.mmended for Bank fi-
nancing.
B. General Description
11.       The project area is divided into three separate sub-areas:  Edessa,
Arapitsa, and Tripotamos, each managed by a separate TOEV (Map IBRD-11530).
12.       The Project has a gross area of 28,400 ha (including built up areas)
of which 24,000 ha net is irrigable. About 6,575 ha are in the Edessa area,
9,780 ha in the Arapitsa area, and 7,645 ha in the Tripotamos area. The cur-
rent water supply for the whole area is inadequate. It is particularly poor
for about 5,600 ha which without the project are classified as non-irrigated.
After the project, the 24,000 ha net would receive full irrigation.
13.       Water for project lands in the Edessa area would be supplied by
diversions from the Edessa River and its tributaries and feeder springs, and
supplemented by pumping from 26 existing wells and 14 new project wells.
Water for the Arapitsa and Tripotamos areas would be supplied by diversion
from the local Arapitsa, Koutiena, and Tripotamos Rivers and their tributaries
and source springs, and by diversions from the Aliakmon River (Annex 4).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Existing pump wells in the Arapitsa and Tripotamos areas would be abandoned
because of their undependable yield and the high cost of operation and main-
tenance. About half of the required diversions from the Aliakmon River would
be delivered by gravity to the lower plains area and the other half would
be lifted by pumps to the higher land areas along the foothills.
C. Project Works
14.       East Vermion project works would consist of; constructing 15 new
main canals and rehabilitating and lining all of the existing main, secondary
and tertiary distribution canals that are presently unlined; installing level
control and measuring devices in all canals; constructing 9 small daily regula-
tion reservoirs, 4 irrigation pumping stations, 3 drainage pumping stations,
and one diversion dam; 14 groundwater wells with pumps and a collection canal;
an electric distribution system to supply power to the pump stations; and
improvement of the existing drainage and road system (see Map 11530). A small
amount of 0 & Ml equipment would be purchased to supplement equipment now on
hand, and additional equipment would be provided for the LRS Research Service
and Project Extension staff.
Edessa Area
15.       Canal System.  A new canal 9 km in length, with an initial capacity
of 683 lit/sec (2D) would be constructed to replace an old deteriorated canal
near the city of Edessa. This canal would collect water from the Edessa Falls
and convey it to lands south of Fdessa. Existing canals ID, 3D and 4D, with
capacities of 450 lit/sec, 163 lit/sec, and 2,500 lit/sec, respectivelv, q'r7
a total length of 21 km, would be rehabilitated and concrete lined for most
of their length.  Other main canals in the area are in good condition but most
of the secondary system will need to be rehabilitated. Canal 1D would serve
lands above Edessa and canals 3D and 4D would serve the lands in the lower
part of the area.  Automatic level control regulators woluld be installed in the
canals to standardize the hydraulic head for turnout gates and measuring
devices.
16.       Regulating Peservoirs.  Three small regulation reservoirs would be
constructed to facilitate a uniform 18 hour operating prograr. One reservoir
with a capacity of 12,000 m3 would be installed below PPC's Agra-hydroelectric
plant to stabilize the irregular flow in the plants tailrace for use in canal
1D.  A similar reservoir with a capacitv of 100,000 m3 would be constructed
off-stream just below PPC's A-ias Triados hydroelectric powerplant to regulate
that plant's releases for diversion by canals 3D and 4D. The third reservoir
in the area, with a capacity of 8,000 0n3, would be located below the
Sevastiana Spring to control the spring's discharge for scheduled irrigation
by canal D4.7. The reservoirs would be rectangular in shape, constructed of
reinforced concrete with sloping lined sides and flat bottoms.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
17.       Pump Wlells.  Fourteen new wells would be drilled near the community
of Skydra in the lower part of the area. They would be located in a line
across the narrow part of the Edessa River basin, and perpendicular to the
river channel, where the natural hydrogeographic formation channels the
underground water flows to the well location. Each well would be equipped
with a Pomona type 80 hp pump and motor capable of lifting 250 m3/hr from a
60 m depth. The boreholes would be drilled 150 m deep but the hydrostatic
pressure on the groundwater would bring it to within 60 m of the surface. The
14 wells would have a capability of delivering about 1,000 lit/sec but this
full amount would be needed only in very dry years. A project canal would
deliver the well water to either (or both) canal D4.4 or D4.7 for downstream
delivery.
Ara itsa Area
18.       Canal System.  Six new main canals:  ID, 5D, 6D, 7D, 8D and 9D, with
a total length of 60 km and capacities ranging from 410 lit/sec (9D) to 2,800
lit/sec (7D), would be constructed. Five existing main canals, with a combined
length of 21 km, and most of the secondary distribution system, would be
rehabilitated and lined. Canals 1D through 4D would distribute local water
supplies in the upper foothills area. Canals 5D through 9D would distribute
local waters, supplemented by water conveyed to the area from Aliakmon River,
to lands in the lower foothills and plains area. All canals would be equipped
with level control regulating facilities and adequate turnout and measurement
devices.
19.       Regulating Reservoirs.  Five regulating reservoirs, similar to
those in Edessa area, would be required.  A 3n,0oo m3 reservoir would reVulate
the discharge of Honas Nero spring for delivery to canal 1D. A 25,000nm
reservoir would regulate the discharge of Ag Nicolaos Spring and a tributary
of Arapitsa River for diversion by canals 2D and 3D. Two reservoirs with
capacities of 3,000 m3 and 14,000 m3, respectively, would be constructed to
smooth out the discharge of Atsi Spring and Isvoria Spring for regulated
delivery by the 4D canal.  A 65,000 m3 reservoir would be constructed at the
end of the 6-1D canal to serve as a pump bay for pumping station A and to
limit the pumping to 18 hour off-peak periods.
20.       Pumping Stations.  Two pumping stations would be required in the
Arapitsa area to lift part of the water diverted from Aliaknon River to canals
in the lower foothills and central plains area. The main station Al would
lift water at a maximum rate of 1,105 m3/hr from the reservoir at the end of
canal 6-1D to a height of 34 meters to canal SD, and 2,790 m3/hr to a height
of 62 meters to canal 7D. It would be equipped with 3-220 hp pumps and 5-340
hp pumps. Pumping station A2 with 2-220 hp units and 4-270 hp units, would
further lift part of the water from canal 7D) to canals 5D and 6D. A maximum
of 900 m3/hr would be lifted 47 meters to canal 6D and 560 m3/hr lifted (34
meters to canal 5D. A drainage pumping station, D1, would be constructed near
Poliplatanos to lift accumulated drainage water in the loWer plains into the
Interceptor canal. It would have 2-60 hp units and 2-20 hp units, capable of
lifting 3,420 m3/hr into the interceptor canal.



ANNFX 3
Page 6
Tripotamos Area
21.       Canal System.  Eight new main canals, about 70 km, would be required
in the Tripotamos area to replace old inadequate canals and to provide an
adequate system to distribute the new water supply from the Aliakmon River.
The largest canal, 6--lD, which would also convey 3,010 lit/sec to the
Arapitsa area, would have an initial capacity of 3,830 lit/sec. Th other
canals would range from 1,420 lit/sec to 250 lit/sec. Canals 5-1D, 5-2D and
6-1D would be served directly by gravity from the existing Aliakmon-Salonica
Plains canal and local water sources. Water supplied from Aliakmon River to
the other canals would need to be pumped. The secondary distribution system
for the area would need to be rehabilitated and lined. All canals would be
equipped with automatic level control devices and turnout and measuring
facilities.
22.       Regulating Reservoir.  A small diversion structure would be
installed on the Tripotamos River near Veria to divert up to 1,170 lit/sec
into a 32,000 m3 regulating reservoir. The reservoir, constructed of re-
inforced concrete, would also collect water pumped from 3-1D canal. The
reservoir would regulate the two sources of water for even distribution to
lands in the upper area through the 1-1D, 1-2D and 2-1D canals. It would
also enable limiting the pumping to 18 hour daily off-peak power demand
periods.
23.       Pumping Stations.  Three irrigation pumping stations and two
drainage pumping stations would be consttucted in the area. Pump station Al
would lift water from the Aliakmon-Salonica Plains canal 45 meters and 21
meters, respectively, to canals 3-1D and 4-1D. A maximum of 1,620 m3/hr will
be pumped to canal 3-1D and 1440 m3/hr to canal 4-1D. The plant would be
equipped with 6-430 hp units and 4-180 hp units. Pump station A3 would lift
part of the water from canal 3-1D to the regulating reservoir explained in
para. 22 above for the 1-1D and 1-2D canals. It would be equipped with 3-270
hp pumps capable of lifting 960 m3/hr 45 meters. Pump station A2 with 3 - 125
hp pump units would further lift 400 m3/hr an additional 45 m to canal 2 - 1D.
The two drainage pumping stations, B1 and B2, would lift a maximum of 18,000
lit/sec of surplus accamulations of surface water into the Interceptor Canal.
Station B1 wqould be equipped with 4-340 hp pumps and 2-100 hp pumps. Station
B2 would contain 2-270 hp units and 2-75 hp units.
Project Common Features
24.       Power Transmission System.  There is an adequate network of high
tension power lines in the area now but some service lines would be constructed
by PPC td connect project pumping facilities with the network. A line would
be constructed from the existing Agias powerplant substation east of Edessa
to serve the new pump wells in the Edessa area. Lines would be constructed
from the existing substation at Kopanos to serve two of the three pumrping
stations in the Arapitsa area while the third station would be served directly
from the existing Poliplatanos substation. Low tension lines would be con-
structed from the new Veria substation, planned to be completed in 1976, to
serve three of the project pumpstations in the Tripotamos area. The fourth



ANNEX 3
Page 7
pump station in that area is located at Kouloura and -would be served directly
from the ex-sting Kouloura substation. A total of 36 km of new connecting
power lines w3uld be required to serve the project pumping facilities. The
lines and -,-nnecting and trano -ormation facilities would be provided by PPC.
25.       Foundation Strength&ilnn.  Natural sub-foundation conditions
throughout the area are stablc, generally composed of cobble and gravelly
alluvium overlain with sandy clay topsoil. Considerable erosion has taken
place along the old canal lines and distribution system because of steep
slopes, lack of control structures, and generally unregulated flows. Rehabi-
litation and lining of the canal svstems will require considerable work in
filling and shaping the eroded areas and providing a stable base for the
concrete lining and new structures and level control equipment. Much of this
will be accomplished with rock and gravel fill. mass and block concrete, and
overlain with mats of gravel and sand shaped to receive the lining and
superstructure concrete.
26.       Drainage Facilities.  Natural drainage conditions in the upper part
of the area are good as a result of the generally porous topsoil and founda-
tion conditions and the many dissecting natural deep channels of rivers and
torrents. In the lower parts of the plains area, however, the soil are less
permeable and surface escape channels become shallow with restricted outlets
due to low elevation differentials. Artificial drainage channels have been
constructed in the problem areas but their effectiveness is restricted by
the lack of adequate escape routes. The project provides for rehabilitating
the existing facilities, constructing additional interceptor channels where
needed, and installing the three drainage pumpstations.
27.       Farm Access Roads.  The existing road network is generally adequate
for existing conditions. Most of the roads are ungraded and unsurfaced,
however, and some become impassable during rainy seasons. Construction of
the new canal ssystem will require rearrangement of parts of the old road svytc-
to provide access to farms. The total road system averages about 5-to 6 meters
per stremma 1/ of land. The project would provide for the relocation of some
roads and grading and gravel surfacing of most of the existing road system.
28.       Land Leveling.  Most of the cultivated lands have been levelled in
the past but only to the extent necessary for rudimentary spreading of irriga-
tion water. Irrigation efficiency would be improved and many local drainage
deficiencies corrected by additional land leveling. About 20% of the total
land area, approximately 4,800 ha mostly in undeveloped areas, would require
minor leveling involving about 500 m3 of earth movement per ha. No land
leveling will be required in the fruit producing areas.
29.       Land Acquisition.  New right-of-way affecting about 600 ha, will be
required for the project facilities. The right-of-way will be acquired by the
TOEVs with project funds provided by LRS. The cost of purchasing the right-
of-way for the project is determined by the District Judge with advice from a
3-man committee of local specialists.
1/   A Greek measure of land area equivalent to 0.1 ha or 0.247 acres.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
D. Xanthi-Komotini Studies
30.       Studies in the Xanthi-Komotini region, which are included in the
project, are aimed at providing a feasibility study for the development of
water resources in the region. Specifically, consultants would be retained
to evaluate available water resources using existing information and data,
together with field studies, and compare irrigation development opportunities
to determine the optimum economic use of the water resources. On the basis
of these studies, consultants would then select an area in the Xanthi-
Komotini and neighboring areas for an irrigation project, and in consultation
with the Government, prepare final designs, specifications and tender docu-
ments for the project. About 250 man-months of consultants time including
about 50 man-months of foreign expertise in hydeogeologic evaluation and
pressure irrigation distribution system design, would be required for the
studies and designs.
31.       The contract for provision of consulting services for the study
would require the consultants to undertake:
a)   a review of existing data and studies already in progress on
the water resource potential and irrigation development oppor-
tunities in the study area.
b)   additional field studies as necessary to inventory all surface
and groundwater resources in the area.
c)   a comparison of irrigation development alternatives to deter-
mine the optimum economic use of available water resources and
the optimum phasing of their development within the constraints
imposed by other resource development limitations.
d)   preparation of a first phase irrigation project based on the
results of the above studies in accordance with accepted
practices and to a standard suitable for presentation for
possible Bank financing.
e)   preparation of final designs, specifications and tender docu-
ments for the works to be undertaken and goods and services
to be procured under the first phase irrigation project.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Requirements, Supply and Quality
A. Water Requirement
1.        Rainfall is inadequate during the growing season and supplemental
irrigation is necessary. Irrigation requirements would vary with crop,
amount of effective rainfall, temperature and wind velocity.  The weighted
average net crop irrigation demand, using the Blaney-Criddle method, would
be about 4,900 m3/ha or a total of 118 Mm3/year. The gross project irrigation
requirement allowing for losses would be 163 Mm3 (Table 1). The peak delivery
requirement would vary from 0.57 liters/sec/ha in the Arapitsa area to 0.65
liters/sec/ha in the Edessa area, averaging about 0.61 liters/sec/ha on a 24
hour delivery basis. Project facilities would be designed however, to provide
for 18 hour operation (about 0.80 liters/sec/ha).
2.        With the lining and improvement of all the canals and distribution
system, conveyance losses would be reduced under the project to about 8 to
10%. Project land leveling, regulated and metered turnouts, scheduled water
deliveries, and improved irrigation practices would reduce on-farm losses to
about 20 to 25%. Since the canal systems are relatively short and the irriga-
tion runs on the small private farms (1 to 2 ha) are also short and well
controlled, the mean global efficiency with the project would be about 68 to
69%.
B. Water Supply and Quality
3.        Water for the project area has been in short supply and various
sources of irrigation water have been investigated. These sources include
increased pumping from groundwater, and pumping from the interceptor canal,
and nearby streams such as the Aliakmon River. Except in the Edessa area,
groundwater reserves, although of excellent quality, are nearing maximum
utilisation. The variable flows in the interceptor canal are principally of
drainage water, low in quality as well as unreliable in quantity. Diversions
from the' Aliakmon River, exploitation of more groundwater in the Edessa area,
and better use existing water supplies through rehabilitation of project
works and improved irrigation practices, would be the most feasible means of
improving the overall water supply situation.
4.        Flows in the Edessa River below the existing PPC hydro electric p
plants are made up of regulated hydro plant releases and local spring dis-
charges. During 1968-1971 the river flow averaged 5.44 m3/sec, 5.41 m3/sec,
and 5.25 m3/sec respectively during the critical months of June, July and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
August. Although all this flow was not beneficially utilized for irrigation,
much was used in peak seasons. Through an agreement between LRS and PPC,
these flows from Edessa River will be reduced to 2.5 m3/sec (3.5 m3/sec in
high runoff seasons). This would be offset by development of additional
pump wells, construction of additional regulation reservoirs, and other proj-
ect related measures. Additional groundwater can be developed in the Edessa
area if unforeseen industrial needs develop.
5.        In the Arapitsa and Tripotamos areas rehabilitating and lining all
canals, installing automatic canal control structures and measuring devices,
and constructing six new regulating reservoirs will result in higher effi-
ciency in water use. Additional requirements would be diverted from the
Aliakmon canal below the Polyphytos storage reservoir. The agreement between
LRS and PPC referred to above, grants LRS the rights to use an additional
11 m3/sec from the reservoir power releases. Only about 7 m3/sec of this
11 m3/sec is needed during peak months for the proposed project and the re-
maining 4 m3/sec is reserved for future needs. The 11 m /sec releases are
compatible with the hydroelectric generation pattern and would not effect
power production. The Aliakmon River water is of high quality and the storage
regulation provides a dependable flow.
6.        There are no international rivers involved in the project water
supply. Water rights for the project are held by the operating TOEVs and
protected by government decree. Sources of water supply and their monthly
utilization are illustrated in Table 2.



EAST VERMIOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Water Requiremoents L
Subproject                                                                      ~~~~~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~April  Ma  juneMot        July              August         Septesiber       Annual Total
Cropped         Water                               Per               Per               Per               Per               Per               Per               Per
crop                       Area         Allocation                             ha.   Total    ha.   Total    ha.   Total    ha.   Total               ha.   Total       ha     Total      ha.    Total
(ha)---------------------                                      -      -      -      -      -      -     ('000 -7   -----------------------
Edessa Area               Wheat                          470       Crop water use                         0.4      188      0.3      236       -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       0.9        424
Maize (main)  /2300                     Crop water use                          -        -       0.8      240      1.1      330     1.3       390     1.3       390      -        -       4.5      1,350
Maize (catch) /2              (440)     Crop water ue-                                   -        -       -        1.1      484     1.3       572     1.3       -        -        -       3.7      1,628
Cotton                        300       Crop water use                          -       -        0.7      210     1.1       330     1.2       360     1.2       360      -        -       4.2      1,260
Food Legumes                   105      Crop water use                          -       -        0.7       74     1.1       115     1.2       126     0.6        63      -                3.6        378
Vegetables                     150      Crop water use                         0.3        45     0.8      120      1.2      180     1.4       210     1.3       195     0.8       120     5.8        870
Alfalfa                        800      Crop water use                         0.5       400     1.1      880      1.3    1,040     1.6    1,280      1.5    1,200      1.0       800     7.0      5,600
Orchards                    4,450       Crop water use                         0.2       890     0.6    2,670      1.0   4,450      1.2   5,340       1.1   4,895       0.7    3,115      4.8   21,360
TtlCopdArea        6,575        Total Crop Water Usc                         1,523            4,430             6,929             8,278             7,673             4,035      4.    3T2,7
on-Farn Looses (25%)                           381             1.107            1.732             2.070199109827
Requirement at Farm Outlet                   1,904            5,537             8,661            10,348             9,594             5,044             41,087
Conveyance Losses (10%)                        190               554              866             1,035               959               504    __        4,108
Gross Irrigation Requirement                 2,094            6,1091            9,527            11,383            10,553             5,548      6.7   45,196
Arapitsa Ares              Wheat                          530      Crop water use                         0.4       212     0.5      265           -        -        -        -        -        -            -       0.9        477
MaIze (main)   /2      400      Crop water use                                   -       0.9       360     1.1      440      1.3      520      1.2      480       -       -        4.5     1,800
Maize (catch)  -               30/rpwae2s                                                    -                     1.1      429      1.3      506     1.2       468       -       -        3.6     1,403
Cotton                        600       Crop water use                          -        -       0,8      480     1.0       600     1.2       720     1.2       720      -        -       4.2      2,520
Food Legumes                  200       Crop water use                          -       -        0.8      160      1.1      220     1.2       240     0.6       120      -        -       3.7        740
Vegetables                     450      Crop water use                         0.3       135     0.8      360      1.0      450     1.2       540     1.2       540     0.7       315     5.2      2,340
Alfalfa                        200      Crop water use                         0.4        80     1.0       200     1.3      260      1.5      300     1.3       300     0.9       180     6.6      1,320
Orchards                    7,150       Crop water use                         0.5   3,575       0.7   5,005       0.9    6,435     1.1   7,685       1.1   7,865       0.6   4,290       4.9   35,035
Other Crops                    250      Crop water use-   -                                       -        -       0.7      175    0.9        225       -   -        -        -           1.6        400
Total Cropped Area         9,780        Total Crop Water Use                         4,002             6,830             9,009           10,916            10,493             4,785      4.7   46,035
On-Farm  Losses (25%)                        1,000             1,707            2,252             2,729             2,623             1,196             11,508
Requirement at Farm outlet                   5,002             8,537           11,261            13,645            13,116             5,981             57,543
Conveyance Losses (10%)                        500               854            1,126             1,365             1,312               598    __        5,754
Gross Irrigation Requirement                 5,502             9,391           12,387            15,010            14,428             6,579      6.5   63,297
Tripotamos Area           Wheat                          400       Crop water use                         0.4       160     0.5       200      -   -        -        -        -        -        -            -       0.9        360
Maize (main)                   500      Crop water use                          -        -       0.9       450     1.1      550      1.3      650      1.2      600       -       -        4.5     2,250
Maize (catch) L2              (370)     Crop water use                          -        -        -        -       1.1      407      1.3      481      1.2      444       -       -        3.6     1,332
Cotton                         700      Crop waler use                          -        -       0.8      560      1.0      700     1.2       840     1.2       840       -       -        4.2     2,940
Sugarbeets                     600      Cr00 water use                         0.7       420     0.9       540     1.1      660      1.3      780     1.3       780     0.8       480      6.1     3,660
Food Legumes                   195      Crop water use                          -        -       0.8      156      1.1      214     1.3       253     0.6       117       -       -        3.6       740
Veletal,les                    401      Crop water use                         0.4       160     0.8       320     1.1      440     1.2       480     1.7       476      0.7      280      5.4     2,158
Alfalfa                      1,100      Crop water usc                         0.4       440     1.0   1,100       1.3    1,430      1.5    1,650      1.5   1,650       0.9      990      6.6     7,260
Oroh.rd.                    3,700       Crop water usc                         0.5    1,850      0.7    2,590      0.9    3,330      1.1   4,070       1,1   4,070       0.6    2,220      4.9    16,130
Other Crops                     50      Crop valtr use                          -        -        -        -       0.7       35    0.9         45       -       -         -       -        1.6         90
Total Cropped Are.         7,643        Tote]  Crop Waler lls,                       3,030             5,916             7,766             9,249             8,979             590        51     3,1
On-Fern Losses (125%)                          757             1.479             1.942            2.312             2.245                992972
Requirement at Fern Outlet                   3,787             7,395            9,708            11,561            11,224             4,962             48,637
Conveyance tosses (10%)                        454               887            1,165             1,387             1,347                595             5,836
Cross Irrigation Requirement                 4,241             8,282           10,873            12,948            12,571             5,557      7.1   54,473
TOTAL SUBPROJECTS           TOTAL, CROPPED AREA       24,000        CROSS TRRIGATION REQLjCREFN'T               11,837            23,764            32,787            39,787            37,552            17,684      6.8  162,965
/1   Discrepancies duc to ro-ording.
/?   Secondary crop followinG wheel.
Auagust 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sources of Irrigation Water Supply to meet Project Needs
Area                                                                              Quantity Abstracted for Project L/
Source                           April           May          June         JUlY3         August           September          Total
-------------------------------------('000 m )---------------------------------------------
Edessa             Edessa River                     1,291          5,153        6,480         6,695           6,695            4,745            31,274
Sevastiana Springs                 803            938          965           965             938              803            5,412
Existing Wells                     -              -            803         1,340           1,071              -              3,214
New Wells                          -              -          1,279         2,383           1,849              -               5,296
Subtotal                       2,094          6,091        9,527       11,383           10,553            5,548           45,196
Arapitsa           Arapitsa River                   4,428          7,311        5,811         6,529           5,118            5,100            37,017
Upper Area Springs                 174            187          129           163             145              140               938
Lower Area Springs                 900            985          844         1,178           1,189            1,339             6,435
Aliakmon River (Gravity)           -              908        2,678         2,678           2,678              -               8,942
Aliakmon River (Pumping)           -              -          2,925         4,462           5,298              -              12,685
Subtotal                       5,502          9,391       12,387       15,010           14,428            6,579           63,297
Tripotamos         Tripotamos River                 2,678          3,348        3,294         3,133           2,437            2,142            17,032
Lower Area Springs                 670            736          803           803             735              770             4,517
Aliakmon River (Gravity)           893          3,125        4,070         4,070           4,070            2,645            18,873
Aliakmon River (Pumping)           -            1,073        2,706         4,942           5,330               -             14,051
Subtotal                       4,241          8,282       10,873        12,948          12,572            5,557           54,473
Total                         11,837         23,764       32,787        39,341          37,552           17,684          162,965
M
/I   Additional water is available from Edessa River during non-peak months and from Aliakmon River and the Edessa wells in all months.                          4 
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
ITEM                            1974                        1975                         1976                         1977                         1978                        1979                         1980
Land Acquisition
Issue Tenders_                             Award Initial Contracts
Designs & Tender Prep.                                Initiate Construction
Designs, Tenders & Contracts
Construction by Contract:
Main Canals, Drains, Reser.,
and Pumping Stntions
Secondary Distr. Network
Tertiary Distr. Network
Boreholes with Pump Equip.
Roads & Gravel Paving
Electric Transmission Network
Land Leveling
Procurement of
Operation & Maint. Equip.
Procurement of                                                                                                                        _
Extension & Research Equip.                                                                                        %                                                                                                         100%
80                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24,000 ha
COMPLETION OF                                                62
LAND DEVELOPMENT
40  /r13,500 ha
20 ~~~~~5,000 ha
World Bank-9700(R)



ANNfl 6
Table 1
GREICE
EAST VERMION IREIGATION PROJECE
Cost Estieate
Category                                                Loca          Pein           Totl                Local         Foraigo         Total
--- ----(Dr Million) ------                 ------ (118$ Million)  -----
Irrigation Develowoent
Civil Works
Excavation and EIbankent                              96.1           41.2          137.3               3.22           1.37          4.59
Concrete                                             451.7          193.6         645.3               15.10           6.47         21.57
Steel                                                 39.6          118.7          158.3               1.32           3.97           5.29
Concrete Pipee                                        15.0            6.4           21.4               0.51           0.21          0.72
Steel Pipes                                           36.0          107.9          143.9               1.21           3.61          4.82
Asbeetos Coeat Pipes                                   0.6            0.8            1.4               0.02           0.03           0.05
Wells (including casing and screen)                    2.9            2.9            5.8               0.10           0.10           0.20
Punp Hoooeo                                           12.9            5.5           18.4               0.43           0.19          0.62
Foundation Strengthening for Canale                   60.5           25.9          86.4                2.02           0.87          2.89
Road.                                                 67.2           28.8           96.0               2.25           0.96           3.21
Land Levelling                                        16.5            7.2           23.7               0.56           0.24          0.80
S.btotal                                           799.0          538.9       1,337.9               26.74         18.02          44.76
Price Contingency                                  228.7         155.4          384.1                7.65          5.20          12.85
Total                                            1,027.7         694.3        1,722.0               34.39         23.22          57.61
Eouieni nt for Irrigation
Autonatic Level Controle                              12.9           51.6           64.5               0.43           1.73           2.16
Ponpo and Motore                                       7.9           31.5           39.4               0.27           1.05          1.32
Electro-Mechanical Eqoipnent                           1 .8          33.7           35.5               0.06           1.13           1.19
Transfor-ere for Punp Stations                 |       0.4            6.9            7.3               0.01           0.23          0.24
Gales and Valvee                                       5.2           15.8           21.0               0.17           0.53          0.70
Sobtotal                                            28.2         139.5          167.7               0.94           4.67           5.61
Price Contingency                                    3.2           15.9          19.1               0.10           0.53           0.63
Total                                               31.4          155.4          186.8               1.04           5.20          6.24
Electrical Network                                       7.5            7.5           15.0               0.25           0.25          0.50
Price Contingency                                    1.3            1.3            2.6               0.04          0.04           0.08
Total                                                8.8            8.8          17.6                0.29          0.29           0.58
Eggionet for Operation and Maintenance,
Re..arch and Eotension                                   0.7           13.1           13.8               0.03           0.42          0.45
Price Contingency                                    0.1            1.5           1.6                 -            0.05           0.05
Total                                                0.8           14.6          15.4                0.03          0.47           0.52
Land Acouisition                                       125.0            -            125.0               4.18            -             4.18
Price Contingency                                   17.4                         17.4                0.58                         0,58
Total                                              142.4            -           142.4               4.76                          4.76
Adnini.tration                                          73.6            -             73.6               2.45            -             2.45
Price Contingency                                    6.0            -             6.0                0.20            -            0.20
Total                                               79.6            -             79.6               2.65            -            2.60
Coneultanto and Training                                 6.6            5.4           12.0               0.22           0.18          0.40
Price Contingency                                    0.5            0.4            0.9              0.01           0.01           0.02
Total                                                7.1            5.8           12.9               0.23           0.18          0.42
Phynical Continoenceie                                 104.1           70.4          174.5               3.50           2.36          5.86
Price Contingency                                   25.1          17.4           42.5                0.84          0.38           1.42
Total                                              129.2           87.8          217.0               4.34           2.94           7.28
TOTAL FOR IRRIGATION DEVELOPKENT                 1.427.0          966.7       2.393.?              47.73           32.31         80.06
tanthi-Konotini Study
Civil Works and Egoio nt
Inve-tigation Welle                                   10.5           19.5           30.0               0.35           0.65          1.00
Pilot Plote                                           11.2           20.8          32.0                0.37          0.70           1.07
Subtotal                                            21.7          40.3           62.0                0.72          1.35           2.07
Price Contingency                                    0.9            1.7            2.6               0.03          0.06           0.09
Total                                               22.6          42.0           64.6                0.75          1.41           2.16
Encineerino 0 tudiog
Con-oltanta                                            4.2            7.5           11.7               0.14          0.25           0.39
Goveronent Staff                                       7.0             -             7.0               0.23            -            0.23
Subtotal                                            11.2            7.5          18.7                0.37          0.35           0.62
Price Contingency                                    0.5             -            0.5
Total                                               11.7            7.5          19.2                0.37          0.25           0.62
Physical Contingency                                     2.9            3.0            5.9               0.10           0.10          0.20
Price Contingency                                   0o1             0.2           0.3                 -            0.01           0.01
Total                                                3.0            3.2            6.2               0.10          0.11           0.21
TOTAL FOR STUDY                                     37.3           52.7           90.0               1.22           1.77          2.99
G0AND TOTAL                                     1,464.3         1,019.4       2,483.7               48.95         34.08          03.05
Total Physical Contingency                         107,0           73.4          180.4               3.60           2.46          6.06
Total Price Contingency                            283.8          193.8         477.6                9.45          6.48          15.93
Angsgt 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Distribution of Investment Expenditures during Construction Period
Category                                        1974       1975     1976      1977     1978      1979      Total
------------------------(Dr Million)-------------------------
Irrigation Development
Civil Works                                    -           -      61.6    484.0    566.3    226.0    1,337.9
Equipment for Irrigation                       -           -                68.0     70.7      29.0       167.7
Electrical Network                             -           -       -         -        4.0      11.0        15.0
Equipment of Operation and Maintenance         -           -       -         -        4.0       6.3        10.3
Equipment for Research Extension               -           -       -         2.4      0.9       0.2         3.5
Land Acquisition                               -           -      65.0      50.0     10.0       -         125.0
Administration                                12.0        9.5     12.6      14.0      13.0     12.5        73.6
Consultants and Training                       3.0       3.0       4.0       2.0      -         -          12.0
Xanthi-Komotini Study
Civil Works and Equipment                      -          6.0     40.0      16.0      -         -          62.0
Engineering Studies                            -          4.0      7,0       7.7       -        -          18.7
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                         -          -       10.4      70.0     70.0      30.0       180.4
Price Contingencies                            -          -       14.0    125.0    217.6    121.0         477.6
Total                                       15.0       22.5    214.6    839.1    956.5    436.0    2,483.7
Au    >1
August 1975 



ANNEX 7
Table 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Equipment Furnished by Contractor
Itemr                                              Costs                    % Foreign
Local         Foreign        Total        Costs
-------------('000  Dr)-----------
Supplied from foreign sources
Motors for Pumps                  1,053           20,030      21,083           95
Electric Control Panels             464            8,798       9,262           95
Transformers                        365            6,925       7,290           95
Measuring Instruments,
Control Valves and Syphons      1,312          24,938       26,250          95
Copper Power Transmission
Lines                             150           2,850        3,000           95
Subtotal                      3,344          63,541       66,885
Assembled Locally
Pumps                             6,824          11,476       18,300           63
Gates and Valves                  2,078            8,310      10,388           80
Steel Apertures                   3,178            7,459      10,637           70
Neyrpic Measuring Instrument      3,541           14,162      17,703           80
Control and Level Regulators
Amil type                       6,493           25,973      32,466           80
Avio type                       1,882            7,530       9,412           80
Avis type                         980           3,920        4,900           80
Steel Transmission Lines,
Poles and Fittings              6,300           4,200       10,500          52
Subtotal                     31,276          83,030      114,306
Total                        34,620         146,571      181,191
/1 Assembled locally from foreign parts, material and patents.
August 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 2
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance, Extension and Research Equipment
to be Procured through International Competitive Bidding
Item                                                         Unit
Number             Price             Value
----------------(Dr '000)--------
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Hydraulic Excavators - 400 liters          2                1,500             3,000
Hydraulic Grass Cutting Implements         8                 400              3,200
Tractors - Wheeled                         8                  250             2,000
Grader                                     1               1,000              1,000
Dump Trucks - 8 m3                         2                 400                800
Automobile                                 1                  150                150
Miscellaneous Office Equipment             -                  -                  150
Subtotal                                                                   10,300
Extension and Research Equipment
Vehicles                                   6                  240             1,440
Visual Aids                                2                    8                 16
Miscellaneous Research Equipment           -                  -               2,000
Miscellaneous Office Equipment             -                                      44
Subtotal                                                                    3,500
Total                                                                      13,800
August 1975



ANNEX 8
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter                                         Cumulative Disbursements
at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
1975/76:
September 1975
December 1975
March 1976                                                    0.6
June 1976                                                     1.0
1976/77:
September 1976                                                1.6
December 1976                                                 2.6
March 1977                                                    3.8
June 1977                                                     5.3
1977/78:
September 1977                                                7.6
December 1977                                                10.6
March 1978                                                   15.0
June 1978                                                    19.0
1978/79:
September 1978                                               22.5
December 1978                                                25.5
March 1979                                                   28.4
June 1979                                                    30.4
1979/80:
September 1979                                               33.5
December 1979                                                36.1
March 1980                                                   38.3
June 1980                                                    40.0
Source: Mission Estimates.
August 1975



ANNEX 9
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of
Agriculture
(Minister)
Agricultural                        Land Reclamation
Development                           Service (LRS)
IDirector       _                      (Director)
Planning &                                             Planning Agro-
Regional Devpt.                                     ecnmc_Hdo                    m
geologic Studies
Land Distrib. &                                     Civil Work Studies   |
Consolidation                                       Execution &                -
Maintenance
|   |            l                            [   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agric. Machinery | 
_E_              Extension                                          & Mechanical         __
Construction 
*                                                                                                  I
>_"          ~~~Research       _ 
c                                                                          |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a~~~~~~~~
.S                       l nspectorata of                        East Varmion                        I li
R                         Agriculture              m         Project Coordinator.
s                        (Thesalonikl)                         (Project Manager)
Planning &                                  Regional Director
r       1        Programs           r                          (Theelonkl)onk
Extension                                            Design &
Service                                              Construction
1Civil Works)
General                                               Mechanicl |c
Administration                                        Cultivation     __F         d
IL              Adminitration                                         I(Well Drilling)             I
Administratlon
I        & Maintenance
Fmininmininrniinin._mum                 Project Operation   L-               -----m
Farmern Water Users
AssocIltions
ITOE Va)
World Bank-3701



ANNEX 10
Page 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs
1.        Project facilities in the three areas of East Vermion-Edessa,
Arapitsa, and Tripotamos are operated and maintained by three existing TOEVs.
Tnese associations are well organized and equipped and operate in a semi-
autonomous manner, receiving only technical advice and assistance from LRS
and the Extension Service. They receive no government subsidy and are fi-
nanced through the collection of water charges. Existing laws provide for
an annual inspection by LRS of the TOEV's accounts and O&M practices to assure
proper maintenance of the project facilities, equitable distribution of water
and assessment of charges. The TOEVs are members of the regional association
of water users organizations (GOEVs) and contribute to their operating ex-
penses and administration.
2.        The new project facilities, and project land areas formerly main-
tained by private individuals, will be incorporated into one of the three
respective TOEVs for operation and maintenance purposes. As a result of
the project, cost savings will be realized by the TOEVs in the operation
and maintenance of canals. However, the additional personnel required for
operating the new pumping stations, pump wells, regulating reservoirs, etc.
and the additional electrical energy for operation of the pumping stations
and pump wells will add to the O&M expense. Similarly, the Extension Service
and LRS research facilities would also add to O&M costs.
3.        The incremental project O&M costs are summarized in Table 1.  The
maintenance costs are based on the estimated life of project facilities and
amount to 1.0% per annum for the canals and distribution systems, 3.5% for
pumping facilities, 5% for the upkeep of roads and drains, 2% for the electrical
network, 5% for Operation and Maintenance equipment and Extension and Research
equipment. The annual costs would increase from US$27 to US$64/ha; the in-
crement being US$37/ha.



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Operation and Maintenance Cost
I tem                                                                                                                                                                      Unit
Tripotaws Area                Arapitsa Area                  Edessa Area               Total Units          Cost             Total Cost             Cost/ha
(SIr)~     (Dr '000)  (US$'OOO)        (Dr)   (US$)
Future With Project                                           7,650 ha Irrigated           9,780 ha Irrigated           6,570 ha Irrigated
Administration and Operation
Watermasters                                            25 men for  5 mnths           32 men for  5 months         21 men for  5 mnths          390 man months         6,000        2,340
Irrigation Technicians                                   4 men for  5 months           5 men for  5 months          3 men for  5 months          60 man wnths          9,000          540
Shop Master Technician                                   1 man for 12 mnths            1 man for 12 months          I man for 12 months          36 man months        14,000           504
Mechanics                                                 8 men for 12 months          6 men for 12 months          10 men for 12 months        288 man months        10,000        2,880
Assistant Mechanics                                       8 men for  5 months          6 men for  5 months           7 men for  5 months        105 man months         7,000           735
Administrative Staff                                      2 men for 12 months          2 men for 12 months           2 men for 12 wnths          72 man months         7,000           504
Office Expenses                                               Dr 376,000                   Dr 395,000                    Dr 388,000                                                 1,159
Share of GOEV Expenses                                                                                                                                                                426
Extensive Service Costs                                                                                                                                                             1,172
LRS Research Station Costs                                                                                                                                                             550
Energy Consumption
Irrigation                                               2.168 x 106 kWh               2.840 x 106 kWh              1.492 x 106 kWh          6.500 x 106 kWh             1        6,500
Drainge                                                  1.600 x 106 kWh               0.773 x 106 kWh                     0                  2.373 x 1o6 kWh            1        2,373           664
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                       19,683
Maintenance
Irrigation Network (1% of investt)                                                                                                                                                 12,160
Pump Units for Irrigation amd Drainage
(3.5% of investment)                                                                                                                                                              3,888
Drainage Systems and Roads (5.01 of inveastent)                                                                                                                                      8,927
Electrical Network (2.07. of inett)                                                                                                                                                    300
Equipment (5.0%)                                                                                                                                                                       700
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                       25,975           869
Total                                                                                                                                                                          45,658         1,527      1,902    64
Present
TOEV Operated Areas                                                3,500 ha                     4,800 ha                       3,000 ha               11,300 ha          1,000        11,300
Privately Operated Areas                                                                                                                               7,100 ha            500         3,550
Total                                                                                                                                                                          14,850           497        807    27
Net Incremental Cost With Project                                                                                                                                              30,808         1,030      1,095    37
August 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I



ANNEX 11
Table 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices Used for Project Analysis
Crop                                       1975                                 1975
Farmgate Price                       Economic Price
---------------------(Dr/kg)---------------------
Wheat                                      5.00                                  4.50
Wheat straw                                 -                                    1.00
Maize                                      5.00                                  4.30
Cotton                                    15.50                                 15.00
Sugarbeet                                  1.20                                  0.78
Sugarbeet pulp                              -                                    2.50
Food legumes                              16.00                                 16.00
Vegetables                                 2.00                                  1.80
Alfalfa                                    2.80                                  2.80
Peach /1                               4.30 - 5.30                           3.10 - 3.90
Apple                                      6.00                                  6.00
Other fruits (pears and
cherries)                                8.00                                  7.50
Other crops (strawberries
and grapes)                             10.00                                  7.50
/1   Wide variation in quality of fruit from inadequately and adequately irrigated
orchards is reflected in the price range.
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Farm Incomes With and Without Project
Item                                              1 ha Farm                             2 ha Farm
(Dr)      (US$)    M%               (Dr)       (US$)    (%
Net Farm Income
Without Project                         36,149      1,209     -               84,781     2,835
With Project                            56,944      1,904     -              145,582     4,869
Increment                                 20,795       695      57             60,801      2,034      72
Increment (per ha)                        20,795       695      -              30,400      1,017      -
Incremental Water Charge (per ha)          2,242         75     -                2,420        81
Incremental Water Charge/
Incremental Income                        -                   11                -          -         8
A-3
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for a Typical Small Farm (2 ha)
Crop                                     Area per                              Gross Value of        Variable            Net Value /2   Fixed
Farm       Yield        Price        Production       Production Costs    of Production    Costs         Net Farm Income
(ha)      (ton/ha)    (Dr/ton)    -----------------------------(Dr)---------------------------          (Dr)         (US$)
Without Project
Wheat                                    0.40         3.0         5,000           6,000              2,158                3,842          --          --          --
Maize (main)                             0.08         3.6         5,000           1,440                543                  897          --          __          __
Cotton                                  0.08          2.2        15,500           2,728              1,184                1,544          --         --           --
Food Legumes                            0.01          1.2        16,000             192                 78                  114          --         --           --
Vegetables                               0.02        19.0         2,000             760                161                  599          --          --          --
Alfalfa                                  0.10         9.1         2,800           2,548                859                1,689          --          --          --
Peach                                   0.88         15.4         4,300          58,274             17,829               40,445          --         --           --
Apple                                    0.28        17.8         6,000          29,904              5,704               24,200          --          --           --
Other Tree Fruits                        0.14        13.0         8,000          14,560              2,443               12,117          --          --          --
Other Crops                              0.01         8.0        10,000             800                 87                  713          --          --          --
Total                                  2.00                                   117,206             31,046               86,160         1,379     84,781       2,835
With Project (at full development)
Wheat                                    0.16         3.8         5,000           3,040              1,007                2,033          --          --           --
Maize (main)                             0.16          6.5        5,000           5,200              1,237                3,963          -_          __           __
Maize (catch crop)                      (0.15)         4.5        5,000           3,375              1,088                2,287          __          __           __
Food Legumes                            0.01          2.5        16,000             400                 84                  316          --          --           --
Vegetables                               0.04        27.0         2,000           2,160                342                1,818          --          --           --
Alfalfa                                  0.20        15.0         2,800           8,400              2,085                6,315          --          --           --
Peach                                    0.98        20.0         5,300         103,880             24,321               79,559          --          --           --
Apple                                    0.28         24.0        6,000          40,320              6,838               33,482
other Tree Fruits                        0.14         20.0        8,000          22,400              3,082               19,318          __          __           __
Other Crops                              0.03        10.0        10,000           3,000                290                2,710          --          --           --
Total                                  2.00                                   192,175             40,374              151,801         6,219    145,582        4,869
gaI-
/1   Before deducting fixed costs.                                                                                                                                             s0~
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for a Typical Small Farm (1 ha)
Crop                                       Area per                               Gross Value of         Variable            Net Value /    Fixed
Farm       Yield        Price          Production       Production Costs    of Production    Costs    Net Farm Income
(ha)      (ton/ha)     (Dr/ton)                    ___________-----(Dr)--------                              (Dr)    (US$)
Without Project
Maize (main)                               0.07          3.6         5,000            1,260                475                  785          --           __       __
Cotton                                     0.30          2.2        15,500          10,230               4,440                5,790          --           --       --
Sugarbeet                                  0.11         50.0         1,200            6,600              1,550                5,050          --          --        --
Vegetables                                 0.03         19.0         2,000            1,140                242                  898          --           --       --
Alfalfa                                    0.08          9.1         2,800            2,038                688                1,350          --           --       --
Peach                                      0.30         15.4         4,300           19,866              6,078               13,788          --           --       --
Apple                                      0.10         17.8         6,000           10,680              2,037                8,643           --          --       --
Other Crops                                0.01          8.0        10,000              800                 87                  713           --          --       --
Total                                    1.00                                     52,614              15,597               37,017          868       36,149   1,209
=                                =~~                          ~~~~~~~ =  =
With Project (at full development)
Maize (main)                               0.10          6.5         5,000            3,250                 773               2,477           --          __       __
Cotton                                     0.10          3.0        15,500           4,650               2,190                2,460                       --
Sugarbeet                                  0.20         60.0         1,200           14,400              3,053               11,347           --          --       --
Vegetables                                 0.04         27.0         2,000            2,160                342                1,818           --          --       --
Alfalfa                                    0.15         15.0         2,800            6,300              1,564                4,736           --          --       --
Peach                                      0.30         20.0         5,300          31,800               7,445               24,355           --          --       --
Apple                                      0.10         24.0         6,000           14,400              2,442               11,958           --          --       --
Other Crops                                0.01         10.0        10,000            1,000                  97                 903           -_          __       --
Total                                   1.00                                     77,960              17,906               60,054         3,110       56,944   1,904
/1   Families often have additional income from off-farm employment.                                                                                                        S3
/2   Before deducting fixed costs.                                                
August 1975                                                                                                                                                                 w 



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs of Crop Production
Variable Costs                                                      Total Production Costs
Crop                                                                                   /
Fertilizer               Machinery -
and                      and       Hired        Family 3                      Fixed
Seeds    Chemicals    Subsidy    Transport    Labor /2    Labor -         Interest -       Costs       Economic -   Financial /
_______________________--_--_--------------------------- (Dr/ba) -------------------------------------------------------------
Without Project
Wheat (grain)                           1,100       1,460         200        2,750         -            150           86             -            5,660          5,396
Wheat (straw)                             -            -          -            300        -             200           -              -              500            -
Maize (main)                              360       1,930         295        3,500        880         4,444          116             440         11,849          7,226
Cotton                                    460       3,490         260        2,600      8,000         8,457          251             900         24,167         15,701
Sugarbeet                               2,000       5,020         290        3,900      2,930        15,600          241           1,000         30,740         15,091
Sugarbeet Pulp                            -            -          -            300        -             -             -              -              300            -
Food Legumes                            1,500       1,700          75        1,900      2,500         2,133          129             300         10,138          8,059
Vegetables                              1,500       2,010         130        1,900      2,500         2,400          145           1,000         11,440          9,055
Alfalfa (baled)                           350       1,350         150        6,750        -           2,286          144             430         11,316          9,024
Peach Trees                               420       9,050         875        3,450      7,000         8,100          340           1,000         29,895         21,260
Apple Trees                               280       9,050         875        3,450      7,250         9,227          339             830         30,962         21,199
Other Tree Fruits                         410       9,050         875        3,450      4,250         6,400          289             600         25,035         18,049
Other Crops                               600       2,010         130        1,900      4,000         4,000          155           1,000         13,640          9,665
With Project (at full development)
Wheat                                   1,100        1,940        285        3,150         -            229          101             -            6,704          6,291
Wheat (straw)                             -            -          -            300         -            200           -              -              500            -
Maize (main)                              360        2,110        360        3,900       1,238        5,200          124             -           13,168          7,732
Maize (catch crop)                        360        2,110        360        3,900         700        3,467          116             -           10,967          7,256
Cotton                                    460       3,485         265        2,600     15,000         6,800          350             -           28,610         21,895
Sugarbeet                               2,000       5,340         342        4,000      3,680        15,467          244             -           30,829         15,264
Sugarbeet Pulp                            -            -          -            300        -             -             -              -              300            -
Food Legumes                            1,500       1,910          90        1,900      3,000         3,200          135             -           11,600          8,445
Vegetables                              1,500       2,010         130        1,900      3,000         3,200          137             -           11,740          8,547
Alfalfa (baled)                           350       1,520         180        8,390         -          2,514          167             -           12,954         10,427
Peach Trees                               420      10,550       1,300        3,450     10,000        10,992          397             -           36,712         24,817
Apple Trees                               280      10,550       1,300        3,450      9,750        11,200          390             -           36,530         24,420
Other Tree Fruits                         410       10,550      1,300        3,450       7,250        8,573          352             _           31,533         22,012
Other Crops                               600       2,010         130        1,900      5,000         4,267          155             -           13,907          9,665
/1   Includes cost of machine operator.
/2   Hired labor costed at Dr 250/day in peak season and at other times Dr 200/day.
/3   Costed at Dr 200/day.
/4   Short term loans charged interest of 7½:% per annum.  Interest costs are computed on 50% of direct costs borrowed for six months.                                             4 -
/5  Weighted average water charges for irrigated and rainfed crops in without project situation.  Irrigation charges with project not included.
/6   Excluding interest on credit.
/7   Exciduing cost of subsidies and value of family labor.
August 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return of the project, with all labor costed
at market rates, was estimated to be 18.5% on the basis of the following
assumptions.
2.        Prices.  Economic prices for grains, cotton and sugar beets were
derived from world market prices as forecast for 1975 by the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department by taking into account whether a commodity
is imported or exported. Peach prices were estimated from updated 1973-74
farmgate prices. Consultations were made with farmers and Greek and FAO, com-
modity experts to determine the effect of the project on the production of
better quality fruit and greater proportion of the crop being harvested early
or late in the season, when prices are higher in the EEC markets. For the
other crops, 1975 farmgate prices net of taxes and subsidities were used. A
schedule of prices is given in Annex 11.
3.        Project Costs.  All costs were estimated at 1975 prices net of
taxes and subsidies. Details of the Project costs are given in Annex 6.
4.        Production Costs.  1975 prices net of taxes and subsidies were used
for fertilizers, seeds and chemicals. Family labor was priced at Dr 200/
working day, as was labor employed in other than peak harvest seasons.
During peak labor demand periods, hired labor was costed at Dr 250/day. The
project area is well supplied with tractors and harvesters and the custom
rates charged were used for the analysis.
5.        Net Value of Production.  Without the project, no yield increase
from current levels was assumed because of increasing water shortage due to
further diversion of water for power generation (Annex 3); which would reduce
irrigated area under annual crops (Annex 1, Table 4). Fruit production data
were based on yields averaged over the life of trees in the orchard, 25 years
for peach and pears and 35 years for apples.
6.        Development Period.  Construction of the project was assumed to
start in 1976 and be complete by June 30, 1980 (Annex 5). With this construc-
tion schedule, 21% of the project area would be fully irrigated in 1977, 56%
in 1978, 83% in 1979 and 100% (24,000 ha) in 1980. Full project benefits
would be realized in 1987, 11 years after commencing construction. Since
project farmers are skilled and use inputs, annual crops would reach 75% of
full production in the first year of adequate irrigation, 90% in the second
year, and 100% in the third year. Orchards would fruit in the fourth year,
but come into full production 8 years after planting. For young orchards



ANNEX 13
Page 2
already established, a slightly longer development period was allowed because
of early water shortages. The large area of industrial peaches (clingstones)
due to begin production in 1975, was allowed 5 years to come into full pro-
duction, or slightly longer for those plantings in areas where adequate
irrigation would not be available in initial years.
7.        Net Benefits.  Project benefits were evaluated over a 40-year
period. Net annual benefits would be Dr 491 million (US$16.4 million) when
the project reaches full development in 1987 as illustrated in Table 1.
8.        Sensitivity Analysis.  Estimated rates of return under various
alternative conditions are as follows:
Assumptions                               Rate of Return (%)
(a)  Fruit prices decreased by 20%                  14.5
(b)  Project benefits decreased by 20%              15.1
(c)  Project investment costs increased
by 20%                                       16.1
(d)  Project delayed by 2 years                     17.0
(e)  (a) and (c) combined                           12.5



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Costs and Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
Year                                  Annual Costs                                      Annual              Annual
Operation and Maintenance                           Incremental         Net Project
Investment               and Replacement                Total            Benefits            Benefits
-----------------------------(Dr Million)-------------------------------------------
1975             29                                                     29                                   (29)
1976             93                           -                         93                                   (93)
1977            632                           9                        641                59                (582)
1978            726                          26                        752                75                (677)
1979            314                          38                        352                81                (271)
1980             -                          46                          46               220                 174
1981             -                          46                          46               365                 319
1982             -                          46                          46               440                 394
1983             -                          46                          46               446                 400
1984             -                          46                          46               451                 405
1985             -                          46                          46               489                 443
1986             -                          46                          46               516                 470
1987-2014        -                          46                          46               537                 491
Rate of Return  -  18.45%
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Effect of the Project on Employment in Agriculture
Type of                                                     Without Project                                      With Project                                             4
Cultivation                                   Cropped              Labor Input                     Cropped               Labor Input
Area         Family     Hired      Total            Area          Family      Hired      Total          Incremental Employment
(ha)        ------('000 man-days)-----              (ha)          -----('000 man-days)------        ('000 man-days) (man-years) a
Wheat                                          3,200            3         14          17            1,400             2          7           9             (8)           (35.5)
7
Maize (main)                                     900           25         13          38            1,200            39         20          59              21            93.3
Maize (catch)                                    -             -          -           -            (1,200)           26         22          48             48            213.3
Cotton                                         2,100          111        171         282            1,600            68        200         268            (14)           (62.2)
Sugarbeet                                        400           39          7          46              600            58         13          71             25           111.1
Food Legumes                                     300            4          9          13              500            10         16          26             13            57.8
Vegetables                                       800           12         24          36            1,000            20         33          53              17            75.5
Alfalfa                                        1,400           20         19          39            2,100            33         29          62              23           102.2
Peaches                                        9,600          486        396         882           10,800           607        743       1,350            468         2,080.0
Apples                                         3,000          173        135         308            3,000           173        210         383              75           333.3
Other Fruits (pears and cherries)              1,500           59         39          98            1,500            82         59         141              43           191.1
Other Crops (strawberries and grapes)            200            5          4           9              300             8          8          16               7            31.1
Fallow                                           600           -          -           -               -              -          -          -                -              -
Total                                       24,000          937        831       1,768           24,000         1,126      1,360       2,486            718         3,191.0
/1   Assumed 225 man-days/man-year.
August 1975



GREECE
EAST VERMION IRRIGATION PROJECT
Seasonal Labor Requirements of Crops
Crop                                    January-March      April-June       July-September       October-December       Total
--------------------------------(Man-hours/ha)--------------------------------
Without Project
Wheat                                          7               13                  9                   13                 42
Maize (main)                                   5              120                175                   38                338
Cotton (hand picked)                           0              224                508                  344             1,076
Sugarbeet                                     16              460                326                  108                910
Food legumes                                  10              140                200                    5                355
Vegetables                                    10              140                200                    5                355
Alfalfa (baled)                               14               87                120                    2                223
Peaches                                     170               100                425                   40                735
Apples                                       150              130                295                  245                820
Other fruits (pears and cherries)            130               90                270                   30                520
Other crops (strawberries and grapes)         10              140                200                    5                355
With Project (at full development)
Wheat                                          7               20                 10                   13                 50
Maize (main)                                   5              125                203                   62                395
Maize (catch crop)                             0               44                136                  140                320
Cotton (hand picked)                           0              224                624                  492              1,340
Sugarbeet                                     16              468                342                  114                940
Food legumes                                   5              150                260                    5                420
Vegetables                                     5              150                260                    5                420
Alfalfa                                       14               93                128                    2                237
Peaches                                      170              220                550                   60              1,000
Apples                                       150              130                410                  330              1,020
Other fruits (pears and cherries)            130              160                430                   30                750
Other crops (strawberries and grapes)          5              150                260                    5                420
Source:  Based on results of studies in the project area by the University of Thessaloniki.                   
August 1975



IBRD 11530
MAY 1975
,.  ULGA  liA 
Xoi  f  >.'^l    'i'      t th7 n4a'                                                                           GREECE
4:e0ye n so Sub- Pr ecr .                    w                                                   EAST VERMION  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
'AL BAN AI                          irf         ee         b
0Ar;; U, E7l*'    Vela=4\.-tThcssconiSl  2l ;  <AREAS OF TRIPOTAMOS -ARAPITSA - EDESSA
GREECE            -      \-.
Si                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $       i >   tohrs    d&s+iG;°2f
a a s . d> ness .a     T   |I   ;Z
Rachl  /                 M      &.t°. Ag   Nra g                                                                     AgraPoepl-t
Cro /d W./"                                                                                            N   /                                               S
SEA                                                                                                                                                                           S A
APHENIi -.                                                                             Giann   hoinor                                                                              A0ios Triodos
7>   - ;              -_         Nrokrochsoior .g                                                                                                                                                              Poweroorit &4 Poreboy 1_2_3    4    5    6    7    - . -    E x    p &F b
I|ONMAIN                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                    R rvoir Pump sting)
0
SiF A                                         d          .                                                                                                                      Powerplonr & PensrtP                                            a
-     ~     ~ i           -_ z_   T   hscoilPoet                                                                                        e                                            -= Pesr   l
IV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
To  regnn            i        <              kOhrIBDFnn                                                                           rjcs        ~        3 Lo, eohorh,o    o    ndLnngo                               Lve
The Ooaesss trs  I',  rp di                              Vi T C ThE                                                                                 E o                       Rsps                      N
" ~      ~       R --P =i                                                              --  -    nerRETF           oudresO                              Spi
T,dof                                                  Charresso h.                                                           sluy 
Geo,ran     - oMr,It  ~
Tr ~~~~~~~~~ ~Parris
,erO    Diversion, Door   9                                        E     A091                                                                 LipochroI
/                    ~~~~~~~Ag. Geor:! As~                                                 oggioIatosor
o  Ag Mar na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~  ~           ~SUB AREAS                                                                         Boreiroles
Ap. Borbora                                                                                                Tnipotassras                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESERVOIRS
sAms    Mok,ochorin  .                                                    0          2    3    4    5    6    7                  4      Arapitso                                    *         Evistr,rr
Ahiakmo  Dae1~Nioir                                                                                                  I                            I                     Edess                                                 No
es,                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMeTERS                                                                  4         Ne
MAIN  CANALS                                          DriaePopStations
IN SET                                                  E.ishirg                                    A         lr.gg.ioir  Parmp Station,s
To Thessl-nin                                  Proiecr                                              New                                                   Pressure Pipes
T. vecg'r,a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Other IBRD F--rcd  P-ojects                                                                             Rehvorhtloto   .nd  L -rsr  rf         -----    Lex-s
r5    9,        ~~~To Tiressolon ki                                                                                            Existin,g  C-anls
- -  Roads                                                                                                       Roads
p )iKoeIoera                      -+--i----i--  ~~~Railroads                                       Exist aig Streams                       - - 4±--   Ra roads
V                                       -   In~~~~~~~~~~~~~rternational Boun,dares      B        Sprigs
ToT/slk



