         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



                                                                                                                   Report Number : ICRR0020217


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P090768                                                 IN: TN IAM WARM

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 India                                                   Agriculture



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-48460,IDA-42550                                   31-Mar-2013                                                              566,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  23-Jan-2007                                            30-Jun-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            485,000,000.00                                                              0.00

  Revised Commitment                                             439,565,044.77                                                              0.00

  Actual                                                         443,919,346.32                                                              0.00




 Sector(s)
 Irrigation and drainage(60%):Sub-national government administration(19%):Crops(15%):Agricultural extension and research(4%):Animal
 production(2%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural services and infrastructure(33%):Water resource management(33%):Rural policies and institutions(17%):Other rural
 development(17%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Hassan Wally                        J. W. van Holst Pellekaan            Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The statement of objectives in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 4) was:
    "The proposed project development objective is for selected sub-basin stakeholders to increase irrigated agriculture productivity in a
    sustainable water resources management framework."

    The statement of objectives in the Financial Agreement (FA, p. 4) was:
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



     "The objective of the Project is to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of irrigated agriculture in the State of
     Tamil Nadu within an integrated water resources management framework."

     This review evaluates the project against the objectives as stated in the Financial Agreement.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The project had five components as follows:
     A. Irrigation systems modernization in a sub-basin framework (appraisal cost US$282.83 million, revised cost: US$395 million, actual
     cost: US$364 million). This component would aim to improve bulk water delivery to irrigation systems through modernization of irrigation
     systems and service delivery in schemes in about 63 selected project sub-basins. Activities would be carried out under two sub-
     components:
      Sub-Component A1. Tank Systems Modernization. This sub-component would focus on reviving traditional water bodies (tanks) that
     are an integral part of most irrigation systems networks in the state. Special effort would be made to consider tanks in a multi-disciplinary,
     holistic framework to yield sustainable benefits to the farmers of such systems.
     Sub-Component A2. Other Irrigation Systems Modernization. This sub-component would focus on the few sub-basins where tanks are
     not part of the larger canal-irrigated systems. These irrigation systems would also be modernized in a shared-vision sub-basin perspective.

     B. Agricultural Intensification and Diversification (appraisal cost US$166.23 million, revised cost: US$115 million, actual cost: US$103
     million). This component would build on the improved bulk water delivery of the previous component to increase the productivity of
     agriculture-related activities through improved agricultural intensification and diversification in about 63 selected sub-basins.
     This component would also be implemented as two sub-components:
     Sub-Component B1. Tank Systems. This sub-component would focus on intensification and diversification of tank-dependent ayacuts
     (the area served by the tank).

     Sub-Component B2. Other Systems. This sub-component would focus on the intensification and diversification of the larger canal-
     irrigated systems.

     C. Institutional Modernization for Irrigated Agriculture (appraisal cost US$52.69 million, revised cost: US$22 million, actual cost:
     US$15 million). This component seeks to improve the institutional capacity for modern, efficient, and accountable irrigation service
     delivery. The scope of this activity would be state-wide. Under this component funds (for civil works, training, consultancies,
     goods/equipment, and incremental operating expenses) would be provided to assist Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN) to improve
     training and sourcing of additional skills relevant to modern irrigation systems management, facilitate systematic change management
     efforts to modernize the functioning of the WRO, building upon good practice expenses in India and abroad. Funds would be provided to
     assist in the formation and capacity building of about 2500 water users associations and Cluster WUAs (about 10 WUAs clustered on a
     hydraulic basis to serve as a focus for extension and information technology efforts) in the 63 sub-basins under the project. An Irrigation
     Research Fund (IRF) with a corpus of about US$3.0 million (to be revised during project mid-tern based on implementation progress)
     would be set up and used to foster research in irrigation development and management.

     D. Water Resources Management (appraisal cost: US$5.00 million, revised cost: US$1.00 million, actual cost: US$1.00 million). This
     component aimed to improve the institutional arrangements and capacity for sustainable water resources management in the State. This
     would include the creation of a State Water Resources Management Agency, amalgamating the existing Institute of Water Studies and the
     State Surface and Ground Water Data Center. Financing would be provided for expert consultants, incremental operating expenses, civil
     works, training and equipment required to provide additional multi-sectoral expertise (especially on economics, environmental and social
     aspects, basin analysis and modeling, GIS and remote sensing, planning future water uses, stakeholder communications).

     E. Project Management Support (appraisal cost: US$8.32 million, revised cost: US$8.00 million actual cost: US$6.00 million). This
     component would support the management and coordination efforts related to this project. Support would include key consultancies (such
     as for the project Monitoring and Evaluation, internal audit capacity building, specialized multi-disciplinary contract staff), and the
     necessary civil works (to house the Multi-Disciplinary Project Unit to be combined with the Water Resources Organization), and goods
     (including computer hardware, software, connectivity, video/audio conferencing, project library, vehicle purchase and hire, etc.), and
     operating costs to facilitate inter-agency coordination, project monitoring, adaptive project management, and effective reporting.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost. The total appraised project cost recorded in the PAD was US$566 million. Actual project cost as reported by the ICR
    (Annex 1) was US$489 million. The difference between the appraised and actual cost was US$77 million. This resulted in an overall
    disbursement rate of 86.40%.

    Financing. The project was financed through a variable spread loan worth US$485.00 million equivalent (US$150 form IDA and US$335
    from IBRD). Actual cost amounts from IDA and IBRD contributions reported by the ICR (Annex 1) were US$153 million for IDA and
    US$287 million for IBRD representing 103% and 86% of the appraisal amounts, respectively. The total amount disbursed amount was
    US$440 million. At closure, US$45 million of undisbursed funds were cancelled. There were four main reasons that led to this
    cancellation according to the ICR (para 1.7.1): "(i) foreign exchange savings (the INR/USD exchange rate increased from 44 to 64 during
    implementation while most expenses were in local currency); (ii) some savings on civil works contracts; (iii) the downsizing of the micro-
    irrigation activities, and; (iv) low disbursement of Component C due to over-budgeting for certain expenditures."

    Borrower Contribution. The Government of Tamil Nadu was expected to contribute US$56 million of counterpart funds. Also, farmers
    were expected to contribute US$25 million. Actual amounts reported by the ICR (Annex 1) were US$49 million for the Government
    representing 87% of the expected appraisal amount. However, the ICR provided no information on farmers' contribution.


    Dates. The project was expected to close on March 31, 2013. The actual closing date was on June 30, 2015 -- 27 months later than
    expected. This delay was due mainly due to the slower than expected implementation of Component A due to procurement difficulties
    and delays in obtaining Government sanctions for a number of civil work contracts. Also, the cumbersome compliance of both
    Government and World Bank procurement rules, which were not always consistent, contributed to implementation delays.
    The project was restructured twice. Both were Level Two restucturings. The first was on February 1, 2013 (cumulative amount disbursed
    was US$252.02 million) in order to extend the closing date from March 31, 2013 to September 30, 2014. The second was on September
    23, 2014 (cumulative amount disbursed was US$384.62 million) in order to extend the closing date from September 30, 2014 to June 30,
    2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   High.
   The Indian State of Tamil Nadu is home to about 62 million people living in 17 river basins. Many of these basins continue to be water stressed
   due to a limited supply and competing demands for water use. About 61 major reservoirs, 40,000 tanks (traditional water bodies that are
   central to the state’s water and irrigation systems) and 3 million wells help irrigate over 2 million hectares (out of 5.5 m ha of cropland). These
   also supply water to an increasingly urbanized and industrialized population, and attempt to meet other demands such as hydropower,
   fisheries, environmental flows and community uses. The irrigation infrastructure is in considerable need of modernization including
   rehabilitation of irrigation canal systems at all levels, restoration and revival of tanks, improving the flexibility of systems to deliver water as
   required for different crops, introduction of measurement devices, promotion of piped, and sprinkler systems, and automated information
   systems and control. This needs to not only be accompanied by capacity-building of irrigation-related institutions, but also providing a new
   paradigm for operation and maintenance or irrigation infrastructure.

   At appraisal objectives were highly relevant to the government of Tamil Nadu's priorities to achieve sustainable growth and contribute to
   poverty alleviation. The management of water and irrigated agriculture continue to be closely linked to the performance of the economy and
   creation of employment opportunities. Objectives were also in line with the World Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy for India (CAS,
   September, 2004 for the period FY05-FY08). The CAS (p. 19) emphasized three priorities: improving Government effectiveness; investing in
   people and empowering communities; and promoting Private-Sector led growth. Under the second priority the Bank was expected to scale up
   its support to improved rural livelihoods, particularly through state level interactions. The Bank would also aim to improve the productivity of
   water and the better management of watersheds, while enhancing the livelihood opportunities of the rural poor.

   At project completion objectives remained highly relevant to the National Water Policy issued by the Ministry of Water Resource in 2012. The
   Policy prioritized demand management and water use efficiency through water saving technologies in agriculture systems by introducing
   maximum efficiency in the use of water and avoiding wastage. Objectives were also in line with the Government of India's strategic objective of
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



       strengthening irrigated water resource management in its 12th Plan. Objectives were also in line with the World Bank Group's Country
       Partnership Strategy (CPS) for India (2013-2017) which calls for increasing agricultural productivity in targeted areas through: "(i) inclusive
       agricultural and rural growth; (ii) technology development and low-carbon and climate-resilient agriculture; (iii) food and nutrition security; (iv)
       agricultural markets; and (v) water and natural resources management" (CPS, p. 34).




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       Substantial.
       The project's design included a clear and focused statement of objectives. However, the Results Framework did not provide clear links between
       inputs, outputs and expected outcomes. Nevertheless, the detailed project description (PAD, Annex 4) reflected logical connections between
       inputs, outputs and expected outcomes. To achieve the stated objective the project's design followed a comprehensive approach that aimed to
       address the hardware and software side of irrigation combined with support of a diversified spectrum of agriculture interventions. Specifically,
       design called for physical rehabilitation of infrastructure (hardware), improvement of water management both at State and community levels
       (software), and support to a diversified set of agricultural interventions to ensure the most effective and efficient use of water. In addition, design
       would support institutional reforms to achieve a modern, efficient, and accountable irrigation service delivery. This approach was reflected
       through the supported activities under components A, B, C and D of the project. Project management was under component E which aimed to
       coordinate and ensure the integration of all activities. Design was relevant and activities were well aligned with the stated objective.
       Design was challenging and the coordination between nine participating agencies involved in implementation was expected to be complex.
       There were also some shortcomings including the development of agricultural marketing plans without adequate private sector involvement or
       commercial expertise. Also, attempts to leverage an irrigation/agriculture project to address ambitious economy-wide water management issues
       (e.g., establishment of sub-basin boards) was beyond the scope of the project.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of irrigated agriculture in the State of Tamil Nadu within an
     integrated water resources management framework.
     There were three elements (with different outputs) contributing to this objective :

     (a) irrigation rehabilitation and modernization to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of irrigated agriculture;
     (b) intensification and diversification of agriculture to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of irrigated
     agriculture; and
     (c) integrated water resources management framework to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of irrigated
     agriculture.

    Rationale
    (a) irrigation rehabilitation and modernization to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of irrigated
    agriculture.
    Outputs
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



(i) irrigation Rehabilitation

   • By project completion 1069 out of 1070 civil works packages (irrigation schemes) were completed within the revised budget allocation
   and implementation plan (target achieved, ICR , p. viii).
   • By project completion conveyance efficiency of the Parabmikulam Aliyar Project main canal was improved from 69% to 92%, an
   improvement of 31-33% compared to a target of 25%. Also, fully irrigated area in the project sub-basins increased from about 365
   thousand ha to about 508 thousand ha (39.3% increase compared to a target of 40%). This represents a 98% completion rate of the
   target (ICR, p. ix).


(ii) irrigation modernization

   • 5,260 tank systems were modernized compared to an original target of 5,700 tanks. While target was not fully achieved the command
   area was the same (404,055 ha compared to an original target of 400,000 ha, Target surpassed, ICR, p. viii). The difference was due to
   an adjustment of the sub-basins participating in the Project at the time of the Mid-Term Review. After rehabilitation, tanks storage
   capacity was increased, irrigation area restored, and water delivery improved. A field survey at 141 tanks in 55 selected sub-basins
   conducted showed that removing silt from the tank beds for bunds strengthening resulted in an additional storage of 2.15 million cubic
   meters of water.
   • By the end of the Project, the area under micro-irrigation (drip and sprinkler) had increased by 53,901 ha., including 47,922 ha under
   the Agriculture Engineering Department interventions and 5,979 ha under the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University precision farming
   interventions compared to a target of 100,000 (target not achieved, ICR, p. 17).
   • 61 sub-basin plans were developed and implemented compared to a target of 63 plans and a baseline of 9 integrated sub-basin plans
   drafted (ICR, p. ix).


(b) intensification and diversification of agriculture to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of
irrigated agriculture.
Outputs
(i) intensification

   • Intensification efforts focused on promoting the System of Rice Intensification (SRI is an advanced rice management protocol
   developed by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University) through large scale demonstrations on farmers’ fields. SRI demonstrations were
   conducted on 18,956 ha, with an impact area of 68,111 ha (ICR, p. 39). Tamil Nadu Agriculture University also promoted the
   Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative (SSI) which has potential of increasing sugarcane productivity by about 35% and potentially reducing
   water requirement by 30-55% as well as improving fertilizer use efficiency and sugar recovery.
   • By project completion System of Rice Intensification (SRI) reached a total area of 272,703 ha compared to a PAD target of 66,500,
   maize reached 81,977 ha compared to a PAD target of 28,400, oilseeds reached 63,514 ha compared to a PAD target of 29,000 ha,
   Horticultural crops (fruits and vegetables) reached 49,579 ha compared to a PAD target of 12,000 while sugarcane ended at 902 ha
   compared to a PAD target of 10,800 ha (ICR, p. 18).
   • The project promoted Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and organic agriculture. 314
   beneficiaries received training on INM and IPM while 200 beneficiaries received training on good agriculture practices (ICR, p. 40). In
   addition, 9,265 farmers received training by Tamil Nadu Agriculture University on the production and use of vermicompost using silpaulin
   bags (ICR, p. 40). INM approaches promoted by the project included the use of green manure (e.g. Dhaincha and sun hemp) crop
   rotation with pulses, increased use of cattle manure in SRI, application of bio-fertilizers containing nitrogen fixing bacteria such as
   Azospirillum or Phosphobacteria, as well as humic acid fertilizers and micronutrient sprays. Another innovation in SRI was the use of so
   called Leaf Color Charts (LCC) by which the farmer can assess the timing and quantity of nitrogen fertilizer application.


(ii) diversification

   • To support diversification the project promoted hybrid maize demonstrations on 1,624 ha with an impact area of 8,487 ha (ICR, p. 39).
   The project also promoted improved production technologies for pulses on 21,655 ha with an impact area of 66,404 ha. The project also
   promoted improved production technologies for groundnuts on 3,365 ha with an impact area of 13,559 ha (ICR, p. 39).
   • By project completion there were 831 farm ponds brought under aquaculture, each 0.1 ha in size, producing at an average rate of
   4.5mt/ha compared to a target of 6mt/ha. Expansion in the area of farm ponds was constrained by drought conditions in the latter half of
   the project (ICR, p. 43). The project also covered 804 tanks representing a WSA of 64,418 ha of irrigation tanks by stocking with fish
     Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
     IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



  seed/fingerlings compared to a target of 77,880 ha, however, only 65,700 ha were found suitable for fisheries and actual implementation
  was done on 64,418 ha (ICR, p. 44).
  • 5,000 agriculture farmers in the sub-basins were trained on scientific aquaculture techniques of them 2000 are women (ICR, p. 45).
  To strengthen capacity of the staff at the Department of Fisheries 10 departmental staff were sent to Vietnam and 9 departmental
  officials were sent to China for training program in various new fish production technologies.
  • To support livestock, the project performed 2,061,515 artificial inseminations over a period of 7 years with an overall conception rate
  of 51.7% (1.9 AI / pregnancy) against the pre-project conception rate of 42% and the national average of 35%.
  • To reduce the gap between the requirement and availability of green fodder in the project area, the project carried out a large scale
  promotion of fodder cultivation including annual varieties like Maize, Sorghum, Cow Pea and perennial fodder species like Napier hybrid,
  hedge Lucerne and Sesbania tree fodder. Fodder cultivation covered about 14,477 ha (against the target of 6,500 ha, ICR, p. 45).
  • Livestock activities supported by the project included de-worming of 2,846,500 sheep and 367,800 heifer calves were de-wormed. To
  overcome the infertility problem 16,010 infertile animals were treated under an oestrus synchronization protocol with a success rate of
  74%. 117,300 animals were provided with mineral mixture to further improve fertility, and 55,790 calves which were deficient in minerals
  were provided with mineral licks (ICR, pp 45&46).
  • To improve animal husbandry the project conducted 4,981 “farmers’ interactive meetings” and about 81,000 farmers received advice
  on improved animal husbandry (ICR, p. 46).
  • The project conducted 14,948 training events and meetings including training of 750 DOA Field Officers on improved crop production
  technologies (ICR, p. 40).
  • The project supported scaling up of the extension model known as e-Velanmai which combines both personal and ICT based advisory
  services by using Field Coordinators (FC) and ICT tools (internet, tablets, mobile phones, etc.). This model reduced the time lag in
  dissemination from research to client. The turnaround time taken to disseminate the technologies ranged between 0.5 - 2.0 hours on the
  same day. e-Velanmai was successfully upscaled in 26 sub basins of Tamil Nadu during 2011-2013 with about 10,500 farmers joining
  as paying members (ICR, p. 41).


(c) integrated water resources management framework to assist selected sub-basin stakeholders in increasing the productivity of
irrigated agriculture.
Outputs

  • 320 training programs have been conducted providing training on technical topics, Information Technology use, Participatory Irrigation
  Management and Water User Association support to 5,782 Water Resource Department staff (ICR, p. 47).
  • The project supported the development and operationalization of an enterprise-wide information management system of 32 modules
  for the Water Resource Department. However, by project completion the information management system rollout was not completed
  and it was expected to require government financing (ICR, p. 49).
  • The project supported computerization of the Water Resource Department and established an IT enabled environment in its offices
  various equipment were procured under the project including desktops, laptops, fax machines among others (ICR, p. 50).
  • To support research the project helped set up an Irrigation Research Fund with a corpus of US$ 3.00 million. Research was expected
  be conducted by private sector, academia and department staff on a competitive grant basis. However, only $0.34 million were used to
  fund seven studies. Under-spending in this category was attributed to the lack of quality proposals coming forward (ICR, p. 51).
  • By project completion a total of 2,775 Water User Associations (WUA) were formed, trained and effective (compared to a target of
  2,500 WUA) commanding a total area of 669,154 ha. Out of the total number of WUAs formed under the project, 94% had set up a WUA
  sub-committee and 74% had opened a bank account. However, the ICR (p. 53) reported that the term of WUA management committees
  expired and no new WUA elections were conducted.
  • By project completion Community Collaborative Water Management (CCWM) was carried out in 400 villages. CCWM provided an
  approach to sensitize communities about the water situation and enable them to draw up a community level action plan for sustainable
  use of water in their village for all water uses such as agriculture, domestic and others.
  • The project supported the creation of the State Water Resources Management Agency.


Outcome

  • The project sought to improve the productivity of irrigated agriculture through a comprehensive approach that included interventions
  related to physical rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure (hardware), support to a diversified set of agricultural interventions to ensure
  the most effective and efficient use of water, improvement of water management both at State and community levels (software)
  combined with project-supported institutional reforms. These activities were expected to result in productivity improvements through
   Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
   IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



increasing cropping intensity, providing farmers with better technologies; and better water management.


• Rehabilitation of tank systems-which involves silt removal, resulted in improved water storage; irrigation system modernization in a
sub-basin framework improved bulk water delivery to irrigation systems; and canal rehabilitation improved conveyance efficiency and
meant more water availability at the tail end of tertiary irrigation canals. These activities also carry important implications for increased
cropping intensity and higher yields in project areas. As a result of project achievements the fully irrigated areas increased by 39% from
364,000 ha in 2008 to 508,000 ha in 2014, and partially irrigated area was stabilized at 102,850 ha compared to 158,770 ha in 2008 and
against a PAD target of 92,500 ha. According to the ICR (par 3.2.3) the target of total ayacut area modernized of 669,000 ha exceeded
the PAD target of 617,000 ha.
On the down side, the project achieved only 53% of its original target for modernization of irrigation systems through micro-irrigation
due to lack of farmer demand. The ICR (p. 17) reported that at the MTR stage the target for micro-irrigation was reduced to 40,000
ha. According to the ICR (p. vii) the project achieved between 51% to 64% increase in value of crop production per unit of irrigated water
(compared to without the project), however the methodology for measuring this result was not defined. .


• Intensification efforts were focused mainly on rice where the project promoted the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and on a
smaller scale the Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative (SSI). By project completion System of Rice Intensification (SRI) reached a total area
of 272,703 ha compared to a PAD target of 66,500 while sugarcane ended at 902 ha compared to a PAD target of 10,800 ha (ICR, p.
18).


• Diversification efforts promoted by the project included introduction of new hybrid varieties for maize, improved technologies for
pulses and groundnuts; and promoting INM, IPM and organic agriculture. While the impact on value chains, value of marketable surplus,
INM, IPM and organic agriculture was unclear, the project was successful in its diversification efforts with the introduction of non-
traditional crops including bananas, tomatoes, brinjal, bhindi and chillies in project areas. By project completion maize reached 81,977
ha compared to a PAD target of 28,400, oilseeds reached 63,514 ha compared to a PAD target of 29,000 ha, Horticultural crops (fruits
and vegetables) reached 49,579 ha compared to a PAD target of 12,000 ha. The project also supported livestock and fisheries
production and promoted new fodder crops and led efforts to improve animal husbandry through capacity building activities.


• Finally, the project sought to improve the productivity of irrigated agriculture through the improvement of water management both
at State and community levels (software) combined with project-supported institutional reforms. Under the Project a total of
2,775 WUAs were established which exceeded the target.. An assessment of WUA capacity carried out toward the end of the Project
showed that about 50% had achieved a strong level of functionality in accordance with the Tamil Nadu Farmers Management of
Irrigation Systems Act, about 40% had achieved a middle level of functionality, and 10% were in need of substantial additional capacity
building.


• The ICR provided the following direct evidence on increased productivity in irrigated areas:
                • Implementation of SRI increased the average productivity of paddy rice by 26% (1,265 kg/ha) when comparing
                average yields of impact areas (6,192 kg/ha) with average yields of control plots (4,927 kg/ha).
                • The Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative (SSI) introduced improved technologies with the potential for increasing
                sugarcane yields by about 35% and while reducing water requirements by 30-55% and improving fertilizer use
                efficiency and sugar recovery. The ICR (p. 39) reported that farmers achieved 30-40% increase in the yield of
                sugarcane under SSI (125- 140 mt/ha compared to 90-100 mt/ha under conventional method).
                • By project completion milk production in the project area reached 705,510 metric ton compared to a target of
                590,000 metric ton (119% achievement rate, ICR, p. 46), and fish production reached 14,686 metric ton compared to a
                target of 25,000 metric ton (59% rate of achievement).
                • For horticultural crops the PAD projected an average 40% increase in yield, however, this was only achieved for
                tomatoes and chili, and partially met for brinjal (egg plant), bhendi (okra) and banana. The data showed that tomatoes
                yield increased by 47% from 13.8 t/ha to 20.2 t/ha, and dried chili yield increased by 42.6% from 1.9 t/ha to 2.7 t/ha;
                while bananas yield increased by 15.1% from 39.2 t/ha to 45.2 t/ha, bhindi (okra) yield increased by 22.2% from 7.0
                t/ha to 8.6 t/ha, brinjal (egg plant) yield increased 22.2% from 12.1 t/ha to 14.8 t/ha, (ICR, p. 18).
                • Hybrid maize promoted by the project led to an increase in average yield of maize by 31% (1,467 kg/ha)
                compared with average yields for the project area (6,259 kg/ha) and average yields of control plots (4,792 kg/ha).
                • Improved production technologies for pulses resulted in an average productivity increase of 24% (118 kg/ha)
                compared with average yields of impact areas (615 kg/ha) with average yields of control plots (497 kg/ha).
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



                     • Improved production technologies for ground nuts resulted in an average productivity increase of 21% (443 kg/ha)
                     compared with average yields of impact areas (2,595 kg/ha) with average yields of control plots (2,152 kg/ha).
                     • By project completion the overall conception rate following artificial insemination for cows reached 51.7% against
                     the pre-project rate of 42% compared with the national average rate of 35%. Overall, the project supported artificial
                     insemination services which resulted in total births of about 950,000 calves (ICR, p. 45).




Rating
Substantial



5. Efficiency

Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex ante

   • Detailed sub-basin wise analysis was done for a representative sample of nine sub-basins spread over three major agro-climatic zones
   of the state to capture the non-homogeneous production and resource environment in the project area. The analysis covered major
   investment activities including irrigation system modernization and agriculture intensification and diversification including livestock and
   fisheries, accounting for 87% of the project costs.
   • The main project benefits quantified were expected gains from agriculture intensification and diversification (including livestock and
   fisheries). The following had been quantified: area expansion, increased productivity and market-led shift into higher-value crops in
   irrigated agriculture; increased milk productivity as a result of sub-basin specific integrated breed-health-feed management programs; and
   increased fish productivity as a result of comprehensive fish seed-stocking-feed-management programs.
   • The analysis did not quantify benefits due to forward and backward linkage effects of modernized, intensified and diversified agnculture
   in the project sub-basins, nor policy and institutional reforms designed to improve sustainable water resources management and irrigation
   service delivery, and to that extent understates the likely economic impact of the project.
   • The estimated financial rate of return (FRR) for the project was 23% with Net Present Value of US$276 million at 2006 prices. The
   economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 20.4% for the project. For individual sub-basins, the ERR varies from 13 to 30.2%. The
   project was expected to yield net present value of US$276 million in 2006 prices over a 25-year project cycle.
   • Sensitivity analysis, performed for lower benefit levels (20%) or higher cost levels (20%) as compared to the base levels resulted in
   lower ERR (15.4 to 16.3%) but still remained sufficiently above the opportunity cost of capital.


ex post

   • The project’s ex-post economic and financial analysis focused on assessing benefits accrued from irrigation modernization and
   rehabilitation, and from agriculture intensification and diversification activities state-wide, based on actual aggregated data for the entire
   project area (61 sub-basins) made available by the participating departments.
   • Key assumptions related to the main sources of benefits remain the same as in the PAD. The time frame used for both financial and
   economic analyses was 25 years, including 7 years of project implementation and 18 years of future projections.
   • The project Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was 30% (6% over appraisal values). Net Present Value was about US$ 251 million. Overall
   Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was 21%, slightly above the appraisal estimate of 20.4%.
   • Sensitivity analysis showed that an unexpected increase of 30% in future recurrent costs would maintain ERR rates at almost the same
   levels (20.5%). However, a two year delay in the generation of benefits (e.g. in the case of drought) or a 20% decrease in these benefits
   would bring the ERR near the opportunity cost of capital.


Administrative Efficiency
The IBRD credit saw a cancellation of US$45 million, project expenditures reached US$489 million, equivalent to 86.4% of the appraisal
estimate of US$566 million. According to the ICR (p. 23) this cancellation resulted primarily from: "(i) foreign exchange savings and (ii) cost
savings on civil works procurement packages as reported by Multi Disciplinary Project Unit." Despite the cancelled amount, the project
achieved most of its major quantitative outputs and targets were largely achieved. Therefore, it is plausible to assume that cost effectiveness
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



 was at least equal to the amounts planned.
 The implementation of Component A and Component C suffered from implementation delays. The M&E contract was only awarded after
 considerable delays on 11 January 2010, almost three years into implementation. The delays and shortcomings in putting in place the M&E
 arrangements added to measurement difficulties for some important PDO indicators. Financial management also suffered from delays.
 Efficiency is rated substantial despite some administrative weaknesses.



Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              87.00
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              0
 ICR Estimate                                                               0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objectives was rated high while relevance of design was rated substantial. Efficacy was rated substantial because by project
completion there was considerable evidence to demonstrate that project activities contributed to increasing productivity of irrigated agriculture
through tank rehabilitation, improving conveyance efficiency, promoting intensification and diversification in project areas. Although it was too
early to assess the full impact of developing an integrated water resources management framework on increasing the productivity of irrigated
agriculture in the project area, the results so far make it likely that the rate of progress already achieved will continue. Efficiency was rated
substantial despite some weaknesses on the administrative side.



a.      Outcome Rating
        Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating


     • There are two primary risks to the sustainability of the development outcome. First, the lack adequate O&M of the irrigation rehabilitation
     work; and second, the concern with the State Government's commitment to continue institutional capacity building for water management
     beyond the project.
     • By project completion most Water User Associations were not yet able to contribute the required financial assets to undertake the O&M
     functions that are their responsibility. An assessment of Water User Associations at project completion against 12 performance criteria
     indicated that only 48% were performing well, while 42% were performing moderately and 10% were performing poorly. Water User
     Associations will require further capacity building which according to the ICR (p,. 27) was expected to happen under the follow-on project. The
     state budget in Tamil Nadu allocates US$7.5 million for O&M of the 14,000 tanks in the state. However, the 5,260 tank rehabilitated under the
     project were going to receive a lower share of O&M funds given their current good condition. The identification mission of the follow-on project
     agreed with the Government of Tamil Nadu on establishing functional maintenance norms, with reliable benchmarking of costs for conducting
     the set of required maintenance measures, determining the necessary plan of work for all tanks in the State on an annual basis, and
     allocating necessary budgetary funds for this purpose (ICR, p. 27).
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



     • The Government needs to sanction follow up elections for Water User Associations whose terms for elected representatives have expired.
     Also the process of conferring the permanent legal status of the State Water Resources management Agency needs to be completed.
     • Secondary risks to the sustainability of the development outcome include: the concern that the project introduced quality enhancement and
     quality control measures for rehabilitation of both tanks and canal systems will not be continued beyond project completion. Also, the
     successful cooperation established under the project between Tamil Nadu Agriculture University and various line departments in providing
     agricultural extension services to farmers would need the allocation of sufficient Government resources to ensure its continuation beyond the
     project. Finally, the project outcomes might be impacted in the future due to events related to climate change. Therefore, the
     Government needs to adopt a water management policy at the basin and sub-basin level that would be able to address and mitigate the risks
     associated with climate change.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry

        • The Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN), one of the most water-stressed states in India, requested the assistance of the World Bank to
        strengthen its institutional capacity to better manage its scarce catchment, river, and groundwater resources, of which agriculture is the
        largest user.
        • The project was financed through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) to support GoTN’s efforts in enhancing irrigated agriculture and
        improving overall water resources management in the state.
        • Design benefitted from a background analysis of the water situation in the state which revealed the over-use of water compared to
        available resources, and the consequent need to enhance efficiencies in agriculture’s use of water. Design also benefitted from the
        experience and lessons of the IDA-financed Water Resources Consolidation Project as well as other World Bank-funded irrigation projects
        in India. Most notable include: investments in irrigation rehabilitations need to be combined with a substantial focus on agriculture and an
        investment in improved water management and institutional development in order to achieve the anticipated benefits. Lessons also
        emphasized the importance of stakeholder participation, institutional reform, and implementation effectiveness.
        • Design featured a comprehensive approach that combined infrastructure, water management, institutional development, and agriculture
        intensification and diversification in a single project. It included physical infrastructure (Component A), water management capacities
        (Component C), and institutional reforms (Component D), all in support of a diversified spectrum of agriculture interventions (component
        B). Project management, (component E), aimed to coordinate and ensure the integration of all activities. However, coordination between
        nine implementing agencies might be challenging.
        • Design suffered from a number of shortcomings. First, it included 13 covenants applicable to project implementation, some of which had
        tight deadlines related to the establishment of institutions (State Water Resources Management Agency, Participatory Irrigation
        Management cell in Water Resource Department, and a pre-defined number of Water User Associations to be established). Some of these
        covenants were not respected, for example, institutional development was a long-term process that required ownership by those involved.
        Second, design included the development of agricultural marketing plans without adequate private sector involvement or commercial
        expertise. Third, design attempted to leverage an irrigated agriculture project to address an ambitious economy-wide water management
        issues (e.g. establishment of sub-basin boards).
        • At the appraisal stage nine risks were identified, four were rated substantial, 4 were moderate and one was negligible. Most notable risks
        were: the complexity of coordination across implementing agencies (rated substantial), lack of continued government priority for
        institutional reforms (rated substantial); and shortage/frequent turnover of field staff leading to time/cost overrun (rated substantial). The
        PAD included relevant mitigation measures for the identified risks. One risk that might have been overlooked was the risk associated with
        unanticipated drought in project areas which happened in 2012/2013 and had a negative impact on agriculture productivity.
        • M&E design and implementation suffered from some weaknesses including discrepancies between the PAD and the Results
        Framework, as well as implementation delays (see section 10a & 10b).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   According to the ICR (p. 29) the World Bank provided regular and insightful advice and guidance to the implementation team through biannual
   implementation support missions. Missions were well staffed and most included technical expertise on water engineering, Participatory
   Irrigation Management, agriculture extension, livestock and fisheries. Implementation of activities under component A benefitted from the
   presence of a senior engineer who oversaw quality standards, trained local engineers in quality supervision, provided guidance, guidelines and
   templates for quality control. The project also benefited from procurement and financial management training provided by the first mission to
   Multi-disciplinary Project Unit staff. Missions also provided valuable assistance to enhance project effectiveness through the monitoring of
   Water User Associations' capacity building, assessing Water User Associations performance, their impact on the adoption of technical
   improvements beyond demonstration plots, the implementation of the model villages initiative to institutionalize coordination and convergence
   of all involved departments at the village level as well as the process of community water budgeting.
   However, there were a number of supervision shortcomings including: the lack of attention to water management issues early on, for example,
   the provision of water management expertise, e.g. at a broader scale such as basin and State levels was insufficient. Also the support to the
   agri-business sub-component during the initial implementation period suffered from "flawed ideas in project design" (ICR, p. 30), including the
   establishment of the Agri-Business Knowledge Centers despite the lack of experience at the Department of Agricultural Marketing. Finally,
   more attention should have been given to M&E issues in the initial phase of the project including timely implementation of the M&E system and
   a more clearly defined Results Framework.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government of Tamil Nadu demonstrated strong commitment to the project through the provision of timely counterpart funding and
   respecting fiduciary aspects. Government support to implementation was also demonstrated through early establishment of the Multi-
   Disciplinary Project Unit, and mobilizing appropriate departmental staff to implement the project as part of their regular work activities
   including reallocation of staff within Departments to respond to the needs for agriculture diversification and value addition under the project.
   However, Government performance suffered from some shortcomings including: institutional and administrative delays relating to issuing
   some administration sanctions, the establishment of State Water Resources Management Agency, and the establishment of three Water
   Resource Department cells for Participatory Irrigation Management, Training, and Information Technology. In addition, the Water Resource
   Department did not incorporate the Participatory Irrigation Management as one of its mainstream departments which was necessary to
   ensure effective and sustained WUA strengthening. This action was tied to the follow-on project (ICR, p. 30). There was also non-
   compliance in meeting schedules related to legal covenants in a timely fashion.
   .



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The project was implemented by 8 agencies of the Government of Tamil Nadu: Water Resources Organization, Agriculture Engineering
   Department, Agriculture Department, Horticulture Department, Agriculture Marketing Department, Animal Husbandry Department, Fisheries
   Department, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The Multi Disciplinary Project Unit (MDPU) coordinated activities between these eight
   agencies. The project benefitted from the strong and stable leadership of one Project Director for the duration of the project who oversaw
   64 MDPU staff. All departments involved in implementation deployed the necessary staff on a state wide level. The MDPU successfully
   coordinated and integrated project activities under the eight implementation agencies. Also, according to the ICR (p. 31) MDPU was
   responsive to the Bank's recommendations and provided timely progress reports to the Government and to the World Bank.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



   However, there were a number of shortcomings including: weak M&E capacity at the MDPU and the absence of an M&E officer as well as
   the late recruitment of the M&E Consultancy Firm negatively impacted M&E activities. Also, during the first half of the project MDPU
   provided insufficient support for the water management, Participatory Irrigation Management and Water User Association development.
   Finally, the MDPU could have put more effort towards outreach activities to improve farmers' demand to micro-irrigation systems.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The Results Framework (RF) included six outcome indicators to assess the achievement of the PDO, however, there was no clear methodology
   on how to measure the values for these especially for the first indicator which aimed to measure the percentage increase in the value of crop
   production per unit of irrigated water. The RF also included twenty intermediate outcome indicators, however, some were vaguely specified
   indicators such as "percentage area covered by IPM or INM or organic farming” or “number of new agricultural value chains developed” and
   “number of information kiosks” or “percentage of staff trained” or "percentage increase in value of marketable surplus." There were
   discrepancies between the PAD and the Results Framework, for example indicators 2, 4 and 7 in the RF were absent from the main PAD
   document while indicators 1, 3, 6 and 8 were worded differently (ICR, p. 2). The PAD also provided two targets for the increment in fish
   production, the Economic and Financial Analysis cited a figure of 22,500 m.t., while in the RF the figure was 25,000 m.t. Also, the indicator on
   value chains was not defined, instead values in the RF were marked “to be determined". According to the ICR (p. 46) such value was never
   determined.




b. M&E Implementation

      • The contract for the implementation of the project’s M&E system was not awarded until 11 January 2010, compared to a PAD deadline
      of March 31, 2007. The delay stemmed from complex procurement steps, lengthy discussion between Bank and MPDU on a shortlist of
      potential M&E contractors, and an appeal by a bidder which led to renegotiating the awarded contract. This delay affected the impact
      assessment studies where the first study was undertaken in late 2010 and published in April 2011, but provided limited coverage.
      • The baseline, mid-term and final impact assessment reports were concentrated in less than three years (2011, 2012 and 2014,
      respectively) for a project that lasted eight years. Impact assessment activities suffered from other shortcomings including: absence of an
      M&E specialist at the MDPU to oversee activities by the private M&E consultancy firm and coordinate monitoring activities by various
      departments, the private M&E consultancy firm initially focused on implementation issues rather than systematic reporting on key
      performance indicators, and field interviews with farmers were conducted in 2013 during a drought; against the advice of the Bank
      supervision mission on September 2012 to postpone the field investigations for final impact assessment in 2014 in anticipation of a project
      extension (ICR, p. 10).


   Implementing agencies provided regular and systematic monitoring of activities and data was aggregated by the MDPU. However, MDPU
   reporting included a large amount of information on the Government’s Detailed Project Reporting indicators which focused on inputs and
   preliminary results. M&E benefitted from an effective Management Information System which enabled the creation of an MDPU operated
   website containing all relevant project information. A Geographic Information Systems specialist was hired to produce a set of maps for each
   sub-basin that was used to support project planning and monitoring activities. Implementation support missions emphasized that
   MDPU needed to provide a clear methodological explanation of reported data and deal more effectively with project indicators that were more
   difficult to measure.



c. M&E Utilization
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



  The private M&E consultancy firm provided independent feedback to implementation and management teams about field activities,
  achievements, stakeholder perceptions, challenges leading to recommendations on potential corrective measures. Quarterly reports tracked
  the firm's progress in achieving its terms of reference and project interventions were systematically reviewed in annual and biannual reports.
  M&E information was critical in order to formulate recommendations to the MDPU. Based on these recommendations MDPU took immediate
  action with contractors and the Water Resources Department when the design and quality issues were identified in construction work.
  Also, MDPU introduced requirements under Component B to progress beyond demonstration plots into impact areas.




  M&E Quality Rating
  Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
  The project was classified as a category “A” Full Assessment. It triggered the following safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment
  (OP/BP 4.01), Pest Management (OP 4.09), Cultural Property (OPN 1 1.03, being revised as OP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP
  4.12), and Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37).
  Environmental Assessment. According to the EA there was no significant negative environmental impacts and risks were identified in
  connection with the physical works for the rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation schemes. There were also no forestry or
  biodiversity issues raised by the environmental impact assessment carried out during preparation. MDPU appointed an environment expert
  to ensure that the Social and Environment and Social Management Framework was implemented in contract works. This involved ensuring
  that all sub projects had the necessary environmental safeguards and that construction contracts also had the requisite Environmental
  Management Plans. According to the ICR (p. 11) "there was generally satisfactory compliance with the environmental safeguards."

  Pest Management. The project promoted integrated pest management (IPM) and integrated plant nutrient management (IPNM). It
  supported trainings and demonstrations to encourage farmers to use fewer and lower levels of agricultural chemicals while promoting
  organic and biodynamic farming approaches including the use of green manures, crop residues, vermi-compost, bio-fertilizers, and bio-
  pesticides.

  Cultural Property. According to the ICR (p. 11) there were no issues raised during the project affecting physical cultural property.


  Involuntary resettlement. According to the ICR (p. 11) the implementation of the project required no involuntary resettlement.

  Safety of Dams. A number of sub-projects were subjected to dam safety review as per State Dam Safety guidelines. The Dam Safety
  Review Panel carried out periodic inspections of these dams to investigate the hydrological and geological status as well as the structural
  stability of these dams. Critical identified issues were incorporated in all the sub-projects and relevant mitigation measures were proposed
  to address these issues. Also, the Water Resources Department conducted pre- and post-monsoon dam inspections and assessments
  were reflected in sub-projects as needed. The World Bank-funded Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project is currently under
  implementation with Tamil Nadu as one of the benefiting states. According to the ICR (p. 12) "the project was in compliance with the Dam
  Safety policy programs for each dam were implemented satisfactorily."




b. Fiduciary Compliance
  Financial Management. Financial management arrangements were mainstreamed around state public financial management systems. Bank
  funds were channeled through the state treasury, creating dedicated budget lines (by sub-basins) within GoTN’s existing budget framework,
  internal controls, payments and accounting. This arrangement involved using the state’s treasury and accountant general’s financial reporting
  systems and external audit by the auditor general. For internal audit, a chartered accounting firm was used to validate internal controls, including
  sample physical verification of assets. Financial management benefitted from having a stable core team of finance staff in the MDPU, headed by
  a professionally qualified finance official, who was on loan from the state’s Directorate of Treasury and Accounts. While financial management
  arrangements were adequate overall, audit reports were sometimes filed with three to four months delay. According to the ICR (p. 12) Issues
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



   raised by the audit reports were addressed by the MDPU in coordination with line departments. There were also three areas of concern that
   required close monitoring by: "(i) periodic reconciliation of project expenditures reported by the treasury with those of the accountant general,
   with adjustment for any differences; (ii) delays in the settlement of advances for project activities, especially those related to departments of
   agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry; and (iii) delays in reconciliation expenditures reported by the Drawing and Disbursement Officers
   and treasury with the accountant general in case of agriculture department (ICR, p. 12).
   Procurement. Procurement benefitted from training opportunities in procurement management during the implementation period. The bidding
   and selection process was conducted in a fair and transparent manner (ICR, p. 12) with very few complaints that were promptly addressed. The
   initial phase of the project experienced procurement delays that slowed the progress of civil works. In addition, the procurement for M&E
   consultancy was delayed considerably which negatively impacted M&E activities. Procurement of phase iii civil works suffered from delays due
   to rebidding of 55 work packages and the prolonged delays in the issuance of administrative sanctions for procurement packages. Contracts
   management was also weak and contributed to the time overruns in several cases. The ICR (p. 13) stated that several post-procurement
   reviews reported that at times not all Bank procurement procedures were strictly followed. These shortcomings were addressed through regular
   training and capacity building.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   Positive nutritional impact. The project generated initially unintended, but significant positive nutritional impacts on consumers through: (i)
   diversifying crops from rice into pulses, grain millets, sorghum, which provide high level of fiber, protein, and minerals especially iron and
   zinc, and (ii) increasing production of fruits, vegetables, milk, and fish products which are rich in vitamins and minerals such as vitamin A,
   calcium, magnesium, and proteins.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                       Substantial                        ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR included six lessons. The following are emphasized with some adaptation of language:

   • Monitoring and Evaluation, design, and implementation are critical not only for practical feedback to implementing agencies and
   managers, but also as an important means to document results. During the design stage, define a set of specific indicators well placed in
   the results chain, while avoiding vaguely specified indicators such as “percentage area covered by IPM or INM or organic farming” or
   “number of new agricultural value chains developed” and “number of information kiosks” or “percentage of staff trained,” as outcome
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         IN: TN IAM WARM (P090768)



     indicators.
     • Projects investing in irrigated agriculture can contribute to enhanced nutrition. This could be achieved through (i) diversifying crops,
     especially non-rice cereals such as millets, and other low water consuming staples, improving consumers’ access to vitamin A, iodine and
     iron-rich and plant- and animal sourced foods and other products rich in micronutrients previously lacking in the diets of targeted populations,
     especially women and scheduled tribes; (ii) focusing interventions on more vulnerable groups such as women, by providing access to
     gender-sensitive care services and equitable access to resources and income-generating activities (mindful of their workloads); (iii) education
     and awareness raising on healthy diets, hygienic food preparation techniques, specific food needs of pregnant and lactating women and
     young children, and healthy processing methods, in part through cooking demonstrations; (iv) introducing nutrition-sensitive indicators into
     the results framework.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is well written, provides thorough coverage of project activities and reports candidly on most shortcomings and difficulties
encountered. The supporting annexes are excellent and accord with the main report. The lessons reflect the project’s experience. The ICR
provides a logical discussion of project outcomes. However, the ICR provides limited information on the methodology for measuring the
important first outcome indicator and no information on farmers' contributions.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
