Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22161 ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.85 MILLION (US$ 9.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
FOR AN
ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
May 16, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 23, 2001)
Currency Unit = LEK
146 Lek = US$1
USSI = 146 Lek
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF - Albania Development Fund
ASP - Agriculture Services Project
CGP - Competitive Grant Program
CGS - Competitive Grant Secretariat
EMP - Environmental Mitigation Plan
FIG - Farmer Interest Group
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
IPRS - Immovable Property Registration System
GoA - Government of Albania
MAF - Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOU - Memorandum of Understanding
NSI - National Seed Institute
OECD - Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
PIP - Project Implementation Plan
PMR - Project Management Report
PMU - Project Management Unit
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
PSC - Project Steering Committee
PVP - Plant Variety Protection
SCA - Savings and Credit Associations
UPOV - International Union for the Protection of New Plant Varieties
VCA - Village Credit Associations
VCU - Value in Cultivation and Use
WUA - Water User Associations
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph R. Goldberg, Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    V. Roy Southworth



ALBANIA
ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         3
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    6
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                         9
3. Benefits and target population                                                       10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             20
2. Financial                                                                            22
3. Technical                                                                            22
4. Institutional                                                                        24
5. Environmental                                                                        26
6. Social                                                                               27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       30
2. Critical risks                                                                       30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       32



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             32
2. Other                                                                               32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          68
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    69
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                76
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        86
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      97
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    99
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  100
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            102
MAP(S)
IBRD 28467R



ALBANIA
ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Enviromnentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Date: May 16, 2001                                Team Leader: Van Roy Southworth
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg, Kevin M.
Cleaver
Project ID: P054736                               Sector(s): AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing, AY - Other
Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    t1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.9 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5 % on undisbursed balance      Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.20           0.20           1.40
IDA                                                             4.87           5.03          9.90
MUNICIPALITIES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             0.40           0.00          0.40
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                              0.50           0.00          0.50
Total:                                                          6.97           5.23          12.20
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Address: 'Skenderbeg' Square, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Arben Molla, Director, Agriculture Program Office
Tel: +355-42-28355                 Fax: +35542-28355                 Email: molla@moaf.tirana.al
Other Agency(ies):
Agricultural Service Project Preparation Unit
Address: Rr. M. Gjollesha No. 56, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Agim Shehu, Director
Tel: +355-42-35494              Fax: +355-42-35494                  Email: Asproject@Interalb.Net
Ministry of Local Government, Selected Municipalities, Land Registration Offices, Soil Research Institute, Seed Research
Institutes, Agricultural University



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY  :;2j02002-00 ;920030; i2004     2005       2006        2007       2008
Annual     1.00        2.00       2.50        2.30       1.00       0.90       0.20
Cumulative     1.00        3.00       5.50        7.80       8.80      9.70        9.90
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/15/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS PAD FA,,, R1  .U,cD. 2(l                          -
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (sec Anncx 1)
The proposed Albania Agricultural Services Project (ASP) aims to create an environment conducive for
rural income growth by addressing key constraints faced by Albania's emerging small-holder farmers in
agricultural production, trade, and the functioning of land markets.It will pursue these objectives by: (i)
improving access of smallholder farmers to quality seeds through an improved seed regulatory framework,
an enhanced role of the private seed sector, and the strengthening of public seed related training and
research; (ii) supporting the establishment of a functioning land market through improved land registration
and pilot initiatives for land consolidation; (iii) improving participation of smallholder farmers in market
activities through the development of selected market infrastructure and active demonstration and
facilitation of market linkages; and (iv) improving access of smallholder farmers to adapted technologies
and increasing opportunities for diversified production, processing and marketing through community
based technology pilots. A key design feature of the project will be the dual emphasis on creating an
improved policy environment for private agriculture and on private-based initiatives at the community level
to enhance productivity and improve marketing. A unifying theme of the activities supported by the project
is the focus on market development, including markets for seed and land, as well as physical rehabilitation
of market infrastructure, and community-based initiatives aimed at improving the marketability and market
value of rural production.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators of the development objective would include the following:
>     Increased access to improved seed supplies and planting materials as measured by the number of
varieties available and the increased availability of high quality seeds;
>     Increased production of breeder seeds and multiplication of basic seeds by seed research stations
up to 25%.
>      Successful piloting of land consolidation initiatives as measured by an increase in security of
ownership of land, the reduced fragmentation of farms in pilot areas and increases in land transactions;
>     Improved efficiency of land registration process for arable land, forest and pastures as measured in
the decrease of time to register land transactions and the increase of the number of clients served by the
land registration offices by 50%;
>     Improved access to market facilities, improved quality of market facilities and increased import
substitution with Albanian produce in areas where markets have been rehabilitated, and increase in
revenues of municipalities through market operation;
>     Increase of the volume of goods traded in the developed or rehabilitated markets by around 20%
and an increase in the diversity of products available;
>     successful organization of community groups to promote productivity and marketing enhancements
as measured through the implementation of at least 100 grant proposals and outreach to at least 2,000
farmers through demonstrations and workshops and a broader audience through printed material and mass
media.
-3 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-20/1           Date of latest CAS discussion: 3/21/2000
The strategic priorities of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy are: (i) improving governance
and institution building; (ii) promoting sustainable private sector growth; and (iii) poverty alleviation.In
addition, the CAS specifically calls to sustain agriculture growth by maintaining an appropriate incentive
framework, supporting the development of a land market, devloping rural infrastructure and improving
access to quality plant genetic material. The CAS Progress Report, approved in March 2000, confirms the
importance of these strategic priorities and places increased emphasis on poverty reduction and social
cohesion, especially using community-driven approaches.The proposed Agriculture Services Project would
directly contribute to achieving the strategic objectives outlined in the CAS and the CAS Progress Report
and expand community-driven approaches in Albania.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
With a contribution ranging between 50 to 55 percent of GDP over the past years, Albania's agriculture
sector has been, and continues to be, an important contributor to economic growth since the transition in
1991. Agriculture provides a direct livelihood for a major share of the population (around 40 - 45 percent
out of a population of roughly 3.5 million) and generates secondary employment and growth effects
through linkages with the upstream and downstream agribusiness sector. Albania is one of the few
economies in transition to have experienced positive agricultural growth throughout the reform process,
while most Central and Eastern European countries saw their agricultural sector contract for several years.
The sector has experienced dramatic changes since 1991. Important progress has been made in land reform,
the privatization of former collective farms and agro-processing enterprises, the establishment of a
distortion free incentive framework, the emergence of private markets, and the rehabilitation of the
extensive irrigation infrastructure. Today, Albanian agriculture is dominated by hundreds of thousands of
smallholder farms producing for home consumption and a market serviced by private traders,
agro-processors, and input suppliers. An important development in the transition process has been the
emergence of private groups and associations including water user associations which manage rehabilitated
irrigation infrastructure, trade and producer associations and more recently savings and credit associations.
These community based groups are increasingly assuming responsibility for providing services to the rural
sector.
Agricultural growth has been impressive since 1991. The early double digit growth rates (13 percent in
1995) gave way to lower rates (one percent in 1997) during the turmoil associated with the collapse of the
pyramid schemes.With stability gradually restored over the last two years growth has resumed hitting 9%
in 1999 and agriculture amounted to roughly 53 percent of the GDP in 1999. Despite this growth a
persistent negative agricultural trade balance represents a major component of the overall trade deficit
(US$663 million in 1999) and local farmers face stiff competition from imports from Italy, Greece and
other nearby countries. Five key areas for the development of the agriculture sector are being addressed
under the agriculture program of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC, 1999) currently being
implemented by the Government of Albania with IDA support, and in part under on-going or proposed
investment projects supported by IDA and the donor community. These are: (i) maintenance of an
appropriate incentive framework; (ii) support to agricultural productivity by addressing constraints
associated with irrigation and drainage; farm inputs, in particular seeds; and support services (e.g.
technology transfer/extension); (iii) institutional development regarding land market development,
- 4 -



marketing and agro-processing, and rural finance; (iv) support to rural development with regard to
non-farm income growth, rural infrastructure and rural poverty alleviation; and (v) improved management
of natural resources.
Moreover, the Government is formulating its first comprehensive Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy (GPRS). The GPRS, due out in June 2001, will provide the basic framework for continual
concessional lending from the IMF and IDA as well as for aid programs from other donors. A key area of
emphasis in the GPRS will be on initiatives to spread growth and poverty alleviation in the rural sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Seed Sector: poor quality of seeds and overly restrictive seed regulatory framework. Seeds are a key
determinant of plant potential and product quality. Access to locally produced and imported improved
planting material is therefore critical for increased agricultural productivity. Farmer-produced seed is
currently the main source of seed (estimated at around 90 percent of seeds used). However, farm-produced
seeds are of poor quality, contaminated with weeds (in alfalfa) and prone to diseases (in wheat, maize,
beans). Improving local seed quality and liberalizing import markets for seed would significantly impact the
overall seed quality in the country. Strengthening public sector seed enterprises and maintaining strict
public control of seed was considered in project design but a choice was made to emphasize a competitive
and diversified private seed supply system based on an improved and liberalized regulatory environment
that allows easy access to improved imported material. The public role in the seed sector will be limited to
voluntary seed registration, and basic seed-related research and training.
Land Markets: constraints to a functioning land market andfarm fragmentation. Most Albanians
have been allocated and given title to land plots but they are small and widely dispersed. The Land Market
Action Program supported by the EU and USAID have established a nation-wide system of 36 land
registration offices which are systematically registering plots in over 3,000 cadastral zones. By the end of
1999, first time registration had been completed in over 1,000 zones and titles for over one million parcels
had been issued and registered. The action program is expected to complete all cadastral zones and register
over three million parcels of land by the end of 2001. Besides the initial registration of titles the registry
offices will be responsible for maintaining the registry and recording land transactions of all types. The
emphasis so far in the design of the system has been the establishment of a simple, paper-based system.
However, a need has emerged to automate the regional offices with computer systems to manage the land
market data base. In the design of the project, a choice has been made to make the design of the system
simple and inexpensive while at the same time allowing for effective automation of the data base.
Another issue in the land reform process is the small size and badly fragmented holdings of the
typical small holder farm that has emerged from the privatization. The average size small-holding is about
1.1 hectares consisting of two to five land plots. Surveys indicate that the average farmer would have to
travel 5 to 7 km to reach his dispersed plots. Many farm holdings are so small that they can support
subsistence production only. There is a wide-spread belief in Govemment and among many land holders
that land consolidation would lead to the establishment of more productive farms and higher rural incomes.
The land component will include a pilot land consolidation initiative. In the design of this sub-component, a
choice was made to test voluntary, market-based mechanisms to foster consolidation through swaps, land
sales, or leases that would lead to larger more contiguous holdings, and to eschew proposals to strongly
support group farming initiatives with little successful experience intemationally and a negative
connotation in the Albanian context.
-5 -



Agriculture Marketing: deteriorated market infrastructure and weak market institutions. MAF's
"Green Strategy" (December 1998) identified the deteriorated marketing infrastructure and lack of
supporting institutional mechanisms as two of the main constraints to increasing incomes of private
farmers. Presently, fann producers face high marketing costs because existing market infrastructure is
inadequate and has deteriorated due to years of neglect. Market information is lacking, untimely and often
inaccurate making it difficult for farmers to adjust their production to changing market conditions and to
penetrate new markets. The proposed marketing component aims to address these constraints and builds on
the initiatives of various donors in the development of supporting institutional mechanisms and market
infrastructure. In the design of the project, a choice was made to rehabilitate key public market
infrastructure but to use public/private partnerships in the management of the rehabilitated markets.
Another was to omit an intermediate node for rural collection of produce for transport to town markets, due
to the relatively short average distance between farms and towns.
Demonstration and Transfer of Improved Technology and Business Practices: farmers lack
information about improved techniques, varieties, practices and opportunities. The project emphasizes
public/private partnership to encourage community-based approaches to the adoption of improved
techniques in the production, marketing and processing of farm commodities rather then a pure public
sector approach, or, on the other hand, to exclusive reliance on individual entrepreneurs. The project
design builds on the experience with Government programs in support of water user associations to manage
and maintain rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure, community-based provision of basic infrastructure and
rural financial services, and the development of a large network of trade, agro-processing, and producer
associations. Many small-holder farmers are benefiting from improved irrigation infrastructure but now
face second-generation constraints in the production and marketing of agricultural commodities. The
proposed approach is to encourage farmers and farmer groups as well as NGOs, associations or other
private entities to work with local groups of producers to develop proposals to address priority problems or
opportunities and to finance adaptive research, pilot programs and demonstrations of new technology,
agro-processing, and -marketing initiatives. The proposals would be evaluated and the winning proposals
financed through a competitive grant scheme.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises the following five components: (i) seed market development; (ii) land market
development; (iii) agricultural market rehabilitation; (iv) a community-driven rural productivity and
marketing improvement component; and (v) project management. Project preparation has been financed
through a PHRD grant and a project preparation facility which will have to be refinanced during project
implementation. Total project costs are estimated at US$ 12.2 million of which US$ 9.9 million will be
financed through IDA resources and US$ 2.3 million constitute government, municipality and beneficiary
contributions. If additional financing through other donors can be secured over the coming months,
activities under the market and community-driven rural improvement component have the potential to be
expanded. The components are described below:
Seed Market Development (US$ 1.3 million). The objective is to ensure farmer access to a full range of
seed technology that is equal to what is available to farmers in developed countries and to foster
establishment and development of public and private seed-related institutions (including especially private
seed companies) suitable for developed market economies and able to work with similar institutions in the
EU, US, and other countries. The project would support the improvement of the seed regulatory framework
and strengthen public institutions related to seed training and research. Improving the access of Albanian
- 6 -



farners to a wide range of new varieties from public and private foreign research allows farmers to gain
access to new markets including, for example, the Albanian national market for wheat with high milling
qualities, EU markets for fresh and processed vegetables and fruits, and EU and world markets for
vegetable and other high value seeds (for which Albania has suitable climate and supporting agronomic and
scientific skills). The following activities will be supported:
(i) Improve seed regulatory framework and institutions:
* Adjusting seed regulations to international standards by supporting passage of new seed legislation
that promotes voluntary seed registration and liberalized seed certification; preparation of a plant
variety protection (PVP) law consistent with UPOV (Union for the Protection of Plant Breeders'
Rights); reviewing phytosanitary controls and taking steps towards membership in OECD Seed
Schemes;
* Supporting VCU (Value in Cultivation and Use) test for a new list of recommended cultivars;
* Training on regulatory systems and electrophoresis testing ; and
* Logistical and budget support to the National Seed Institute to coordinate seed and variety testing
and germplasm collection.
(ii) Strengthen public institutions for seed-related training and research:
*   Providing logistical and budget support for surveying, collecting, evaluating, and in situ
preservation of wild germplasm for medicinal plants, wheat relatives, and possibly other endemic
plants depending on private and international interest;
3 Support testing of selected new public cultivars in an EU country for EU registration and/or PVP
registration;
3 Logistical support for the Crops Research Institutes to produce good quality parent lines and
foundation seed and to continue variety testing and development activities.
In addition to these activities it is expected that the community-driven rural productivity and
market improvement component will finance a number of proposals aimed at seed-related research and
demonstration activities.
Land Market Development (US$ 2.4 million). To complement the on-going efforts in Albania initiated
under the 'Land Market Action Program' supported by USAID and EU aiming to establish a functioning
land market and to facilitate a more efficient and sustainable use of agricultural land, two areas of activity
have been identified. These activities include physical and institutional development of the Immovable
Property Registration System (IPRS) and a pilot Land Consolidation activity.
(i) Immovable Property Registration System. The sub-component aims to improve the availability, access
and security of land market transactions in the IPRS offices to speed-up the undertaking of immovable
property transactions and to integrate the textual land rights informnation with graphical index maps. The
IPRS is a modern registration of land title system that has been established in 36 district offices including
two offices in Tirana. The currently paper-based system will be transferred to a computerized system under
this project. Implementation of this sub-component will have four phases over the life of the project.
Phase 1: will rehabilitate the Tirana One office complex, procure basic technology to automate the
district IPRS offices and provide training in the use of technology.
Phase 2: will design and develop a model for a fully automated IPRS. The project will provide the
technical assistance necessary to complete this phase.
Phase 3: will implement and test the model for data sharing between two IPRS offices that were
automated in phase 2. The best method of transferring data will be determined.
Phase 4: will be a complete rollout of the system in all districts. The rollout will include procurement
of networking technology, implementation to the network and will provide training in operation and
maintenance of the system.
-7 -



In addition to introduction of the computerized system, the sub-component includes two studies.
The first will review the body of existing property related information and the second will analysis the types
of rural transactions that are taking place. The legislative study is expected to identify areas where
adjustments in the legislation may be necessary to facilitate continued development of the registration
system for immovable property. The transaction analysis will look at transactions that have taken place to
identify emerging trends, i.e. are transactions being undertaken to consolidate holdings, transfer land from
agriculture to other uses, or related to infrastructure development.
(ii) Land Consolidation Pilot Project. The sub-component will identify measures to facilitate and encourage
consolidation of highly fragmented land holdings through available market mechanisms. It is expected that
consolidation of land will contribute to improved efficiency of land market operations in general and to
improved agricultural productivity. The aim of the sub-component would be to identify measures in four
pilot communes (one commune in Mat, Lushnja, Fier and Korca districts respectively) in support of
consolidation that, if successful, could be replicated on a national scale. It would focus on incentives and
information and publicity to use market mechanisms (sales, exchanges, leases) to encourage land
consolidation.
Market Development Component (US$ 4.1 million). To support the promotion of local and export markets
and marketing facilities, the project will invest in a variety of measures considered essential for the
establishment and promotion of functioning market channels, marketing facilities and export opportunities.
The main objectives of this component are to: (i) facilitate the marketing of primary agricultural products
in areas of Albania; (ii) improve the functioning and management of selected agricultural markets serving
both the rural and the urban population; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food and local municipalities to plan and oversee market activities successfully. The
project would focus initially on the rehabilitation or development of existing produce market infrastructure
where critical problems of limited capacity and deteriorated facilities exist. Four wholesale markets have
been identified (Lushnja, Vlora in a first phase; Korca and Shkodra most likely in a second phase). The
project will also consider contributing to the rehabilitation of the Tirana wholesale market in the second
phase provided sufficient financing from other sources can be secured by government. In addition,
resources will be made available for studies of crop specific national marketing systems to identify
bottlenecks and impediments and further priority investment needs and for the active facilitation of
marketing linkages where appropriate and requested. The component will also closely cooperate with the
community-driven rural productivity and marketing improvement component. Proposals which promote
marketing activities will be supported and guided through the application process.
Community-Based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement (US$ 2.5 million). To assist emerging
smallholder farmers and other rural entrepreneurs to develop their businesses, and improve their access to
information and knowledge needed to improve productivity, diversify production, add value to their
products, and exploit market opportunities, the project will award small grants under a competitive grant
program (CGP). The objectives are: (i) to accelerate the transfer of technology and improved business
practices to rural communities; (ii) to build capacity of rural service providers to support
farmers/producers and other rural entrepreneurs; (iii) to assist associations and other community groups to
take advantage of economic opportunities; and (iv) to help MAF establish more public-private linkages for
reaching farmers and agri-businesses.
Grants would be made available to community-based groups such as farmer/producer associations,
farmer interest groups associated with Water User Associations and Savings and Credit Associations, and
farner groups formed for extension delivery purposes by the public extension service and other programs.
- 8 -



An estimated 150 grants averaging 10,000 USD will be provided over the life of the project. The CGP
would be extended over the whole country during the course of the project, but would focus in the first year
on some of the main agricultural districts (Fier, Lushjne, Kavaje, Elbasan, Korca, Durres, Vlora and
Shkodra) in order to test and streamline the operational procedures in areas where: (i) they are relatively
accessible as considerable monitoring and supervision will be required from the CGP secretariat; (ii) there
are a large number of possible market-oriented farmer groups and associations; (iii) there is good potential
for building on the work of previous and existing projects and programs; and (iv) possible pilot proposals
have been identified.
Project Management Component (US$ 1.33 million). Implementing the various project activities will
require a project management team which is able to provide technical expertise as well as accounts to all
fiduciary standards. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established with the aim of (i) ensuring an
efficient implementation of the activities proposed under the Agriculture Services Project and (ii) to provide
MAF with the implementation capacity which would allow it to expand this project with activities
supported by other donors in the future such as in the field of livestock development and technology
transfer. Where necessary, the project management team will be supported by additional technical
expertise.
Project Preparation Facility (US$ 0.55 million). A project preparation facility has been provided to the
government of Albania to help finance project preparation costs. The preparation facility is being used to
establish and staff the project preparation unit, and to finance consultants for the environmental
assessment, development of the financial management system, procurement planning and the design of
market infrastructure and rehabilitation of the Central Registry of the IPRS.
lnd-caI i              Ba*-       % Of
Component                   Setord"        Costs     %of,   fi_ ,clg        amk*
.  _   5    Tota        H)W !           g
1. Seed Market Development         AA - Agriculture     1.34       11.0       1.10      11.1
2. Land Market Development          Agency Reform       2.40       19.7       2.10      21.2
3. Market Development               Agro-Industry &     4.09       33.5       3.45      34.8
Marketing
4. Community-based Rural            Agricultural        2.49       20.4       2.00      20.2
Productivity and Marketing          Extension
Improvement
5. Project Management               Other Agriculture    1.33      10.9       0.70       7.1
6. Refinancing of PPF               Non-Sector          0.55        4.5       0.55       5.6
Specific
Total Project Costs                   12.20     100.0       9.90      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                     12.20     100.0       9.90      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Within the framework of institutional and governance reform, the Government is aiming to redefine the role
of the state in the economy by eliminating activities that are either nonessential or are likely to be more
efficiently undertaken by the private sector, by reorganizing and decentralizing remaining functions, and by
strengthening public agencies for those functions. The proposed Agriculture Services Project, would
support these efforts within the agriculture sector.
-9-



For the seed sector, the project would reduce the public involvement inherent in the current seed legislation
by shifting the regulatory focus of public seed quality control from a mandatory to a largely voluntary
basis. Specifically, the project supports adjustment of seed regulations to standard practice in OECD
countries, which will allow seed companies to operate in Albania as they do in the EU and US. Regulatory
adjustments include relaxing government controls on variety introduction and seed production, and on
establishing plant variety protection. Assisting Albania in removing regulatory barriers to private
introduction of new varieties for most crops and to allow companies to produce most seeds without an
additional certification in Albania are important issues being addressed by the component.
The project will also strengthen public agencies for specific activities appropriate to the public sector,
including land registration, and germplasm preservation. With regard to land market development, the
Chief Registrar and associated District Land Registration Offices would be strengthened to carry out their
function of registration and protection of newly established private property rights. In market rehabilitation,
the municipal institutions would be trained in the efficient operation of market sites. Moreover, marketing
activities would be supported through the competitive grant scheme. Limited resources would be made
available for selected studies of market channels where deemed relevant.
In addition, a number of project activities are designed to promote public-private partnerships for research,
extension, processing and market development through competitive grants and contracts with companies,
trade associations, cooperatives, and NGOs for a range of activities including technology transfer, the
provision of market services and training, to support small pilot initiatives at the community level.
Channeling project funds through MAF to private organizations working in local communities is expected
not only to build capacity within those organizations (institutional development) but also to build
public-private linkages that encourage public organizations to rely on private organizations for what they
can do best. A detailed operational manual has been developed which will assist in the operation of the
component.
3. Benefits and target population:
Target Group. By improving access to more productive technologies and to markets, the project aims to
increase productivity and incomes for all farmers, whether producing for own consumption or for the
market. As productivity and markets improve, more farmers will specialize and will depend more on
markets for incomes. The focus will be on rural areas where farmers face second-generation constraints to
improved productivity and higher incomes. The community-based initiatives to be supported by the project
will also allow for a broad spectrum of demand-driven activities including initiatives in support of poorer
rural communities in mountainous and remote areas (starting from year 2 of the implementation). Activities
will also be selected according to their capacities to serve as a model to be transferred to other farm groups
or communities. Although specific project activities will be initially geared towards selected sites, it is
expected that eventually the project will facilitate commercialization, marketing and higher productivity
incomes across all farm categories and across all regions.
Benefits. Project activities are expected to lead to increased eamings of smallholder farners through
increased access to quality seeds, market facilities and eventually a more diversified and market oriented
production, with well adapted technologies and improved land markets. At the farm level, project activities
are expected to translate into higher in-kind or cash farm incomes, and at the community level, improved
market facilities and related up- and down-stream linkages would generate further benefits. At the national
level, the improved productivity and market efficiency would contribute to an improved trade balance. The
development of more consumer oriented marketing activities would increase the value and volume of rural
- I10 -



domestic and export trade. Expected benefits from each component are as follows:
Seed Sector Development: The component is expected to contribute significantly to increased quality and
quantity in horticultural and agricultural production through increased availability of improved seeds and
adapted research, generating higher farm incomes through improved farm productivity. New private
varieties and seeds (including vine and tree saplings) can be expected to have a particularly strong impact
for vegetables, fruits, vineyards, and other high value agricultural activities suitable for small, intensively
cultivated farms.
Land Market Development: A more efficient and more attractive land market will provide benefits to the
farming cornmunity by stimulating land transactions and facilitating better land allocation through secure
and transparent land transactions. Secure land rights and transparent and well functioning land markets will
help encourage better land use and encourage investments in long-term improvements. Moreover, the pilot,
aimed at testing market-based and voluntary approaches to help farmers consolidate their existing holdings,
should help define the potential impact of a national land consolidation initiative. Finally, secure land rights
and a well-functioning and accessible title registry should foster wider use of land as collateral for rural
lending.
Market Development: Investments in market infrastructure are expected to improve farmers' access to
markets, the quality of traded products, increased marketing opportunities for a broad range of agricultural
commodities and more consumer oriented production. These initiatives are expected to lead to higher
incomes in many farming communities. Also, urban consumers are expected to benefit through better
quality and a wider range of agricultural products available in the market. In addition, the municipalities
will be able to collect revenues from the wholesale market and will be allowed to invest profits in additional
market facilities. Thus, the wholesale market development will also have an impact on the overall market
infrastructure in the selected municipalities.
Community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement: Each grant proposal is expected to
benefit directly the groups which made the proposal. Depending on the proposal, it is expected that
productivity gains, access to new markets or market segments, use of new technologies and possibilities to
establish new products, demonstration and practical research activities will be achieved. Benefits will reach
beyond the direct grant recipients. The intent of this component is to support demonstrations that others
will be able and willing to adopt and expand on their own, so that benefits go beyond the initial community
where demonstrations take place. An example of expected benefits and beneficiaries for example proposals
(refer to Annex 5 for a description of the proposals) is given in the following table.
- 11 -



Example                      Assumed Benefits                    Beneficiaries              Units
Production of     Production of about 15,000 good quality    Directly six farmers and  An area of 0.5 up to I
anti-phylloxera    seedlings sufficient for planting about 3.7 ha   indirectly about 150  ha
grape saplings    annually                                  farmers in the area
Improved animal   Number of farners treating their animals  Directly about 140      More than 8,500
health care       increasing from 20% to 600/o, increased milk   farmers and indirectly    animals treated in eight
production by 100 to 180 titres/head in cows   hundreds of consumers   villages
and by 12 to 18 litres/head in small
ruminants, fertility increased by 5 to 8% in
cattle and 10-20% in small ruminants and
increased net farm income by about 15-20%,
improved dairy products safety.
Milk processing    Increased milk-processing capacity by about   Directly 4 small milk  One small milk
and marketing     1,000 litres/day and improved dairy products   processors and     processing unit and
marketing, improved dairy products safety  indirectly more than 50   marketing channels
farmers in the village  around the village
Soybean          Improved animal feeding and increased milk    Directly 4 to 5 farmers    2 ha in total separated
production and    production by about 15% in the participating   and indirectly about 20-  in 4-5 small plots
feeding           farms, 30% higher return per hectare,     30 farmers
increased net farm income by about 20%,
improved cropping patterns
Watermelon and    Production of about 20,000 good quality   Directly 25 farmers of    Plastic greenhouse
eggplant seedling   grafted watermelon/eggplant seedlings in one  the association and  covering 0.25-0.5 ha
production        cropping season, increased yield by 15 to  indirectly about 100
20% and net crop returns by about 10 to 15%   other farmers by buying
good quality seedlings
Drip irrigation in  Increased potato yield by about 5 to 8 t/ha in   Directly 4-5 farmners and  An area of about I ha
potatoes          the first cropping season and 8 to 12 t/ha in    indirectly more than 50
the second cropping season, increased farm  farmers
income by about 5%    ___
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed Agriculture Services Project will be implemented over a period of six years
(FY 2002 to FY 2008). Overall, project management and implementation will be carried out through an
independent Project Management Unit (PMU) in collaboration with the institutions and organizations
outlined below. The PMU will be accountable to a Project Steering Committee. It is envisaged that the
implementation arrangements under this project will equally serve to implement other donor-supported
activities, as well as eventually integrate into the structures of either the Ministry of Agriculture or of local
authorities. The core elements of the PMU have been established during the project preparation process
with financing from a Proiect Preparation Facility and a PHRD grant. Key features of the institutional
arrangements are as follows:
(i) Project Steering Committee (PSC): An inter-ministerial level Project Steering Committee will be
established consisting of Ministers or their representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Food,
Finance, Economic Cooperation and Trade, Local Authorities; as well as the Chief Registrar. The PSC will
be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. It will be responsible for reviewing and approving the
annual work program and budget of the PMU; as well as setting priorities, resolving conflicts and
facilitating implementation of the agreed work program.
(ii) Project Management Unit (PMU): The Project Management Unit is currently responsible for
project preparation. The PMU operates an office in Tirana. The PMU director reports to the chairperson of
the Project Steering Committee (i.e. the Minister of Agriculture and Food) or his designate. The PMU is
responsible for overall project coordination, procurement, disbursement and financial management under
- 12-



the project. The PMU office consists of a project director, a procurement specialist, a disbursement officer,
an accountant, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, information technology specialist, training specialist,
and supporting staff (consisting of two assistants, one interpreter, and two drivers). The disbursement
officer and the project accountant are part of the same accounting department shared with the Fishery
project. In addition, subject-matter specialists in land administration, the seed sector, marketing and
community-based initiatives will oversee implementation. The PMU is responsible for the preparation of an
annual work program and budget of the project.
Implementation Partners
In implementing the Seed Development Component, the PMU will work closely with the Seeds
Department of the MAF, the National Seed Institute, two national seed associations, and farmer
associations, as well as individual farmer seed producers. The supported seed research institutes would be
responsible for the implementation of the seed multiplication activities. The participating institutes would
be required to submit a report annually. A Seed Business Development Specialist in the PMU would be
responsible for the co-ordination of the seed component as a whole.
Under the Land Market Development Component, the PMU would work in close collaboration
with the Offices of the Chief Registrar and the Soils Research Institute, and communities selected for a
voluntary land consolidation pilot.
In establishing market infrastructure under the Market Development Component, the PMU will
work with the Ministry of Local Authorities and in particular the municipalities of Lushnja, Vlore and, in a
second phase Korca and Shkoder and potentially Tirana; as well as local farmers, farmer groups and
product traders. It is envisaged that the ownership of both the land and buildings would be with the m
unicipality or local government, and the day to day management and administration would be conducted by
a market authority which will be operating under the local government. For rehabilitating or constructing
market infrastructure, the PMU will work with a local company to approve designs, to transfer funds for
market construction, and to ensure that local governments prepare workable management and maintenance
arrangements and to supervise construction. A specialist within the PMU would be responsible to oversee
training activities in market organization and operation, market rehabilitation activities and support market
and marketing related proposals under the community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement
component.
Under the Community-Based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement Component
proposals would be developed by community and farmers groups and associations assisted where necessary
by the PMU or by other projects or NGOs. A small secretariat will be established in the PMU to coordinate
and manage the component, conduct training and facilitate arrangements between the applicants and the
wide range of technical expertise that would be required to assist the beneficiaries during the preparation of
their proposals, supervision and evaluation. Proposals will be evaluated by technical specialist peer
reviewers followed by an independent Competitive Grants Committee (CGC) review and decision. The
CGC would include specialists from the MAF, farmer/producer and other associations, NGOs and other
projects and programs. Winning proposals will be selected by the CGC and recommendations passed on to
the PMU director for signature and endorsement. Beneficiaries will be required to contribute at least 25%
of the total costs of the activities either financially or in-kind.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
The purpose of the M&E system is to assess the outcome against project objective and outputs in
- 13 -



terms of technical performances, satisfaction of beneficiaries, social and economic impact and long-term
sustainability of project investments. The monitoring and evaluation arrangements of the project will build
on three activities: (i) continuous monitoring of certain project components, (ii) a baseline survey, and (iii)
an interim and final survey of the various components and implementation arrangements building on the
baseline sample plus rapid appraisal methods where appropriate. The design of the M&E system will take
findings of the social assessment into account.
The system concentrates its resources in close monitoring during the implementation phase (in
particular the land, market and community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement
component) and assessing the long term impact of the project components over the next six years. While the
monitoring will focus mostly on technical aspects and performance, the evaluation system will emphasize:
(i) technical aspects and performance of project components, (ii) number of farmers, farmer groups and
others benefiting from project implementation, (iii) impact of the seed institutions and legislation on the
evolution of the seed market and the availability of a broad range of seeds and varieties of good quality, (iv)
impact of the improved land registration system, (v) lessons learned from the land consolidation pilot, (vi)
impact of wholesale markets on the municipalities, traders and farmers as well as changes in the trading
structure, and (vii) types of activities supported under the competitive grant component, their impact and
outreach to other farners.
A M&E specialist will assist the PMU in the design of a simple monitoring and evaluation system
including the questionnaire for the baseline, interim and final surveys. The PMU will have a M&E person
on a continuous basis during project implementation who will supervise the monitoring and evaluation
arrangements of all project components in cooperation with the component specialist of the PMU and
organize and update the monitoring data in a data base. Monitoring arrangements for the various project
components are as follows.
Seed Development. Monitoring and evaluation of the seed component will be undertaken by the M&E
specialist of the PMU in conjunction with staff from the Seed Institute, the MAF, the crop research
institutes and the University. Simple questionnaires will be developed by the M&E staff of the PMU to
chart progress in project implementation for each sub-component. Monitoring reports will be tailored to
each sub-component. For the crop research institutes the focus will be on the operations of the regional
testing facilities, and on progress with the germ plasm collection exercise. The participating institutes
would be required to submit a report annually. The report would include a descriptive account of the
activities with respect to seed multiplication and testing, and include regularly updated tables showing the
area and production of each species, variety and type (super-elite and elite etc.) of seed produced, amount
sold and number of seed producers purchasing seed each year. For the MAF the focus will be on the
progress in the study of the plant protection system and the implementation of measures to strengthen the
services. Monitoring of the work of the University will focus on the delivery of physical inputs, the types of
publications prepared and disseminated, the number and types of training courses offered, and the number
of students trained and their background.
Evaluation of the impact of the component will be conducted as part of the overall evaluation of the
project by PMU staff. The evaluation surveys will focus on farmer access to improved seed, and their
satisfaction with quality, availability and price. The evaluation will also focus on the private seed trade and
its ability to import and market seed and their attitude towards the functioning of the legal and regulatory
system for seed production and marketing.
Land Development. Monitoring and Evaluation of the support for IPRS will be undertaken by the PMU
staff. The monitoring will focus on introduction of the new technology, progress in renovation, and on the
- 14 -



improvement of registration services. The evaluation survey will focus on feedback from users of the
registration system on the quality and ease of service. A study to analyze the types of rural land
transactions that are taking place will be undertaken to supplement the data collected in the monitoring
surveys.
Monitoring and evaluation for the pilot will be an integral part of the implementation efforts. A
separate baseline survey will be conducted in the four pilot communas to establish the existing degree of
land fragmentation. This will be followed by a mid-term survey and a final survey to assess the impact of
the pilot activities on the degree of consolidation in the pilot villages.
Market Development. Monitoring and Evaluation of the operation of the wholesale markets will be mainly
conducted by the market authorities themselves. The market authorities will fill a simple data sheet
informing about the activities on the market, collected fees and frequency level of market on a daily basis.
The M&E specialist of the PMU will be required to finalize the record sheet in cooperation with the
training specialist on wholesale operation and will explain its operation in the initial training for the market
authority.
The market authority will present a monthly summary to the market and the M&E specialist of the
PMU. The M&E specialist will enter the received information in the overall M&E database. This record
keeping will allow for continuous analysis of the market operation and will provide important information
on the potentials of the markets and additional support required. The market specialist will use the
information for discussions with the market authorities and to plan additional training sessions. In addition,
the information will provide important data to analyze the flow of products in Albania and its development
over the project implementation period. In addition, financial data will need to be collected to monitor the
activities of the market authorities and to judge on the acceptable use of funds. The financial data will be
used to prepare business plans of the markets by the market specialist in cooperation with the market
authorities.
Evaluation of the impact of the markets on the municipalities, traders and farmers will be part of
the overall evaluation surveys conducted by the PMU. The questionnaire should include questions on the
satisfaction of traders and farmers with the site, the increase of traded volume, improved access to markets
and follow-up developments related to the new market site (i.e. set-up of collection points, improvements of
markets by the municipality through the profits received). The survey should also inform whether the
markets improved the access of market information to traders and farmers.
Activities related to market studies and direct marketing assistance will be evaluated based on the
number of studies contracted and the dissemination of their findings. It will be further monitored to what
extent the activities of the market specialist contribute to collective actions of the project, other agencies
involved in marketing and the MAF. The direct marketing assistance will have to be recorded and its
impact will be judged on a case by case basis, rather on qualitative than quantitative basis.
Community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement. For the realization of all monitoring
and evaluation activities, the Competitive Grants Secretariat will work in close collaboration with the M&E
officer of the PMU. However, the CGC will have overall responsibility for overseeing the monitoring and
supervision of the grant projects through reviews of all progress reports provided by the successful grant
applicants. The proposed M&E system of the CGP will be based on the following three elements:
Monitoring. Monitoring will be based on simple progress reports prepared by the successful grant
applicant with reference to physical, technical, financial and managerial indicators. Progress reports are
- 15 -



required at six months and twelve months from the signature of the Grant Agreement. A final report is also
required one month after the completion of the project. As each grant proposal will be different, each
proposal would have clearly defined monitoring arrangements including performance indicators and
milestones against which progress and outcomes of the proposed activities can be assessed, including
technology transfer activities. These indicators will be agreed between the CGP Secretariat and the
applicants.
Concurrent evaluation. The CGP Secretariat and a Contracted Agency will undertake periodic field-visits
and studies on sample projects. The purpose will be to follow-up and qualitatively examine the
implementation activities and to make implementable recommendations for improving the projects and
solving immediate problems.The CGC members may also participate in field visits if this is deemed
appropriate.
Ex-post evaluation. A representative range of sample projects will be evaluated by an outside expert
agency (not the contracted agency) such as the agricultural university, institute or other agency. These
studies will assess whether the projects had achieved their intended results in terms of outcomes such as
technology development, dissemination and adaptation; actual and potential impact on farm incomes; effect
on crop or livestock yields and production; institutional capacity development and human resource
development. These evaluations will be an especially critical input in mainstreaming successful extension
messages and delivery mechanisms and in designing future initiatives for strengthening and reforming
research and extension systems.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
-   The possibility of taking a Sector Investment Program (SIP) approach had been considered which may
have allowed to implement the proposed project activities as well as the numerous projects sponsored
by a multitude of donors in a concerted fashion allowing for integration with MAF's budget procedures.
This approach was rejected due to (i) the Bank's experience with the difficulties of managing the
complexities of a program approach; and (ii) the infeasibility of this approach in the current situation in
Albania which is marked by a range of donors implementing a broad portfolio of projects for which
implementation arrangements have already been established.
*   The possibility of including a separate rural roads component was explored during project
identification. Due to the limited resources available within this project to address the extensive rural
road need, the extent of ongoing activity in this sector under different projects, and the institutional
complications arising from current road administration reorganization, the proposal to undertake such
rural infrastructure as a separate component under this project was rejected. However, the proposed
project could include the provision of infrastructure selectively under other project components, such as
the community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement component.
*   The identification mission suggested to include livestock development, extension services, and fisheries
components under the proposed project. The first two components were dropped to reduce the
complexity of the presently proposed operation, while fisheries development, for the same reason, was
hived off into a separate operation, now approaching the appraisal stage of processing. Livestock
development and extension services could be addressed under a separate project at a later stage by
using the project implementation arrangements developed under ASP. Also, extension activities and
strengthening of existing extension structures could be part of the competitive grant scheme proposals.
- 16-



Thus, structures and linkages as well as capacity building will be created which can then be used by
follow-up projects or activities.
*   The identification mission and the project concept document entailed a much broader approach to
promote market issues. In an effort to simplify project activities and in line with the general view of
reviewers and experts in the field, the market component will largely focus on rehabilitation efforts and
related training and information needs. Activities to promote marketing and facilitate vertical linkages
in the production line could be supported under the competitive grant scheme. Proposals on market
promotion will have a favorable chance of being accepted and will be guided by a local market
specialist in the PMU. The original concepts to provide market and price information and export
promotion have been dropped as similar schemes in other countries generally have not proven
successful and existing systems in Albania have proven very inaccessible. In addition, a proposal for a
market development unit has been prepared which would do analytical work to address the paucity of
information on marketing in Albania. However, this proposal appears to fall outside the scope of
project activities, but could be considered as a stand-alone activity by other donors.
*   In addition to the activities supporting land market transactions aimed at consolidation, the consultants
preparing the Land Consolidation component proposed project support for a group farming initiative.
The proposal included support for formation of groups of landholders on contiguous plots who would
make collective decisions on what to plant and on the types and timing of farming operations. The
project was to provide support for group formation, and grants to the groups to help overcome
impediments to group formation or group activities. This initiative was rejected because: (i) it seemed
too close to top-down centrally planned approaches to consolidation; (ii) the proposed grants to
overcome constraints to group farming were large (up to US$ 2,000 per hectare) which raised
questions of sustainability and which would skew incentives for joining groups, and (iii) the
impediments to group farming seemed less to do with fragmentation and more to do with lack of trust
among potential group members.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1                                tLatest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
Bank-f d(Bank-financed                            only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Economic Adjustment               Critical Imports Project          S             S
(completed)
Sector Adjustment                 Agriculture Sector Adjustment     S             S
Credit (completed)
Agro-processing Support - Private  Agro-Processing Development      S             U
Sector Development                Project (completed)
Restoration of Forests            Forestry Project                  S             S
Agricultural Productivity and     Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  S            S
Infrastructure Rehabilitation     (completed), Irrigation &
Drainage II
Rural Development                 Rural Development Project         S             S
(completed)
Rural Infrastructure              Community Works                   S              S
- 17 -



Community-based Rural Finance      Microcredit                        S              S
Fishery Project                    in preparation
Other development agencies
See below for overview of
related activities carried out by
other development agencies
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Brief description of the main projects supported by other development agencies in the agricultural and
rural sector:
The Immovable Property Registration System Project, with a total cost of US S 28.1 million
(1994-2002) is financed by the USAID, EUPHARE, and the GoA. The project objectives are to: (i) create
the institutional basis for land markets, and sustainable property rights to real estate; (ii) create a unified
system of immovable property registration in order to register, display, update and legally protect public
and private rights of inmnovable property; and (iii) complete the first registration in private properties in
1,500 rural and 130 urban cadastral zones.
The Small Scale Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, with a total cost of US $ 10.7 Million
(1996-2002) is financed by IFAD. The Project objective is to increase food security and incomes in four
northern districts through the rehabilitation of small scale irrigation schemes on 7,200 hectares.
The Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project, with a total cost of US $ 18.2 Million
(1995-2000), is financed by IFAD, IDB and the GoA. The objective is to assist the GoA in the
implementation of a development program in the northeastern districts through rehabilitation of basic
infrastructure, distribution of small scale credits, development of agriculture extension services and support
to the financial systems of local authorities.
Cooperation Projects in the Agriculture Sector, with a total cost of US $ 24.1 million financed
by the German Government (1994-1999). The projects are several and cover cooperation in the fields of
agriculture mechanization, processing, support of Albanian entrepreneurs through credit lines given to the
GoA, and support to the education system in agriculture.
EU-PHARE Agriculture Program in Albania, has been financed by the European Community
since 1993. The program assists the MAF through a Policy Advisory Unit and the Agriculture Program
Office in establishing policies and developing sector analysis. The program supports the state budget for
agriculture and other projects in the sector such as: (i) land legislation and registration; (ii) rehabilitation of
veterinary services, sanitary control and food safety standards for livestock products; and iii) fisheries.
Albania National Extension Project, with a total cost of US$ 7.5 million, is financed by the
Government of the Netherlands and the GoA (1997-2000). The main project objective is to expand and
strengthen the National Agriculture Extension Service through strong links with the private sector.
The project of Strengthening the Plant Protection Service in Albania, with a total cost of NLG
6.6 million, is also financed by the Government of the Netherlands (1997-1999). The project objective is to
increase agriculture production through crop protection and a program for pest population diagnosis, and
pest management.
- 18 -



The project of Production, Preservation and Use of Certified Saplings in Albania, with a total
cost of ItL 2.5 billion, is financed by the Government of Italy, CINEAM and the GoA (1997 - 2001). The
objective of this project is to produce quality saplings, using improved, disease free propagating material,
genetically guaranteed, thus providing a critical element in developing modem arboriculture.
The Integrated Livestock Project, with a total cost of ItL 6.9 billion, is financed by the
Governmuent of Italy. The project aims at: (i) the improvement of cattle reproduction through the
modernization of the National Cattle Breeding Station and the creation of six regional centers for semen
distribution to 400 local Artificial Insemination centers; (ii) the improvement of the veterinary service,
rehabilitation of central and regional veterinary laboratories, and development of a national strategy to
eradicate TBC, Brucellosis and Anthrax; and (iii) assistance to applied veterinary research in Albanian
institutions.
The project of Assistance to Albanian Agriculture Trade Associations, with a total cost of US$
2.2 million, is financed by the USAID (1999-2002). The project aims to establish and strengthen the
agriculture trade associations and to stimulate entrepreneurship in agricultural production and marketing.
The planned Mountain Area Development Project by IFAD consists of a development fund
concentrated on the north-eastern region with the main objective of supporting the remote mountainous
areas. Implementation is expected to start soon.
In 1999 GTZ has initiated a feasibility study of a wholesale market facility in Tirana. It was
intended to join the existing three operating wholesale markets, currently operating with limited capacities
and suboptimal conditions. The wholesale market is calculated to cost US$ 3.5 million.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This operation builds on the project implementation experience of programs supported by IDA and other
donors mentioned above in the agriculture and rural sector in Albania over the past seven years. It appears
that one key to success in project implementation is to address from the beginning the issues of institutional
capacity at the level of the implementation unit, and to focus on a decentralized delivery structure. This
approach has achieved remarkable success. The ASP is addressing both of these issues from the design
stage by (i) the establishment of a PMU specific to this project which will be staffed by specialists in the
respective topics and supported by foreign TA on key administrative and technical aspects; and (ii)
focusing on the decentralization of implementation by supporting the capacity of existing local associations
and the involvement of the private sector for services delivery. During project preparation, the core team
for the PMU has been established (funded through a PPF and PHRD grant) to help in the design of project
components and implementation arrangements, in particular procurement and financial management.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower has indicated commitmnent to this operation by placing this project in its three year public
investment program (2000 - 2002). Government staff, in particular the Ministries of Agriculture and Food,
but also from other agencies participated actively in the project preparation phase. The use of the Project
Preparation Facility and the establishment of a core PMU to undertake project preparation activities
underlined the commitment of the government, as does correspondence between Government (Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Local Government) and IDA.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA has gained considerable experience in project design and implementation across a broad spectrum of
- 19 -



investment projects in agriculture and rural development in Albania, ranging from public infrastructure
delivery to participatory approaches in rural credit. Within the donor community in Albania, IDA has taken
the lead in ESW on the agriculture sector ("Agriculture Sector Strategy for Albania" (1992), "Reforms in
Albanian Agriculture - Assessing a Sector in Transition" (1999)) providing an analytical basis for a
continuing policy dialogue with the Borrower. Furthermore, the Bank is assisting in the development of a
rural strategy which will provide key input into the Government's current efforts to develop a Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). The proposed project will complement other IDA investments and
build on the sector work and policy dialogue. In particular, the project extends support for land market
development and seed market liberalization. The Bank has also pioneered and subsequently broadened, the
application of competitive grant schemes in Europe and Central Asia, though the further diversification of
this mechanism in this project beyond agricultural research and extension would represent an innovation to
current schemes. The implementation anrangements fostered under this operation would allow for other
donors to find a ready institutional environment under which to expand and deepen the activities initiated
through the Agriculture Services Project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
e Cost benefit    NPV=US$1.1 million; ERR = 16 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
A summary economic analysis is presented in the following. Details can be found in Annex 4.
Examples of investment under the community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement
component can be found in Annex 5.
The main benefits and costs of the respective components have been discussed above. The benefits
are: (i) increased yields through improved access to higher quality seeds and higher profits through the
potential of producing varieties fetching higher prices on intemal or external markets; (ii) an increase in the
efficiency of land cultivation though land consolidation and an increase in land market activities catalyzing
structural change; (iii) increased revenues from rehabilitated markets and improved access to markets
resulting in increased product sales for farmers and additional resources generated for further improvement
of market infrastructure; and (iv) direct incremental benefits of the competitive grant projects realized and
spread-over effects to other farmers resulting in secondary benefits. There are more benefits related to
project activities which have not been considered in the economic analysis as they are either very limited or
very difficult to quantify. These are among others: increased sales of seed producers through improved seed
material, long term structural change related to land registration and land consolidation efforts, gradual
increase of marketable products, improved quality of products and increased export opportunities and
linkages, medium- and long- term effects of innovations initiated through the community-driven rural
productivity component and positive experience of micro projects leading to innovations beyond the scope
and implementation period of the project. Proper monitoring and evaluation criteria will allow for a more
detailed analysis of project benefits during project implementation (refer to description of M&E
arrangements in section C).
Seed Market Development. Development of the seed market is expected to reap direct benefits stemming
from two elements, higher productivity through higher yields and lower seed density and better access to
markets through better adaptation to consumer and processor demands. Additional benefits will arise from
training and investments in germplasm conservation and improvements in the existing seed research
institutes. The continuous effort to conserve germplasm has a benefit to the society which is not
quantifiable, but gains its importance through the preservation of a large number of unique varieties
- 20 -



existing in Albania.
Land Market Development.
Land registration. Land titling and land registration are expected to provide direct, but difficult to
quantify, benefits stemming from two elements: registration of land titles and the creation of functioning
land markets. They also include improved tenure security, the possibility to trade land at market prices,
enhanced ability to use land as collateral and reduce land related disputes. In the Albanian context, the
facilitation of land consolidation is another anticipated benefit allowing farmers to consolidate their
dispersed plots. Experiences from other countries also show that land registration can significantly increase
the market value of a given property. For instance, in Thailand the appreciation of titled property ranged
from 75% to 192%. Secure land tenure promotes investments in land and on the land as well, and increases
in productivity and sustainability.
The creation of a functioning land market system will contribute to more efficient resource
allocation as land transactions pertnit the shift of land ownership to those achieving high productivity and
returns from the land. Through this, the land markets also play an active role in the structural adaptation of
the rural economy over time. The systems to be put in place are also expected to increase the efficiency of
the land registration process and reduce the time and costs per transaction. The simplification of the
registration process will also invite an increased use of the registration process. An improved registration
system and its integration into graphical index maps will also serve the government cadastral information
for planning and regulatory purposes. It is expected that the registration system which currently covers
around one million parcels will increase to approximately three million parcels.
Land consolidation. Direct benefits from land consolidation stem from two aspects: the increased
efficiency of operating on a larger plot and slight area increases through reduced number of tracks and
tractor turn space needed.
Market Development. To calculate benefits of the rehabilitation and development of the markets in detail,
more information is needed on the user frequency, the number of farmers accessing the market and the
average revenues for small, medium and large participants of the markets. In the absence of a complete
feasibility study of the markets, several assumptions have been made. A medium-case scenario has been
chosen for the use frequency of the markets. Costs associated with the markets are operating costs and
construction costs. Operating costs comprise the costs of market management (salaries) and utilities (water,
sewage, garbage disposal, electricity, telephone). Construction costs are the costs associated with the
design, construction and set-up of the market. Land purchases have not been included in the costs.
Community-Based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement. Although it is difficult to estimate
the results of the demonstrations since the types of proposals are not yet known, some assumptions can be
made from the example proposals presented in Annex 5. For example, improved seedling and sapling
quality will lead to a consistent improvement in both crop and tree yields and farm incomes; the
introduction of grafted watermelon and grafted eggplant seedlings is expected to result in yield increases on
the order of 15% to 20% and net returns of about 10% to 15%. The introduction of drip irrigation in potato
crop production will lead to an increase in potato yield of 5 to 8 t/ha in the first cropping season and 8 to
12 t/ha in the second cropping season. Improved animal feeding (such as use of concentrate and
soybean-based feeds) is expected to increase milk production by about 15% in the participating farms. The
improved prophylactic animal health care demonstration, already carried out in some areas of the country,
has been shown to increase the number of farmers treating their animals 20% to 60% following the
program, with milk production increasing by 100 to 180 liters/head in cows and by 12 to 18 liters/head in
small ruminants.
-21 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV-US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost Recovery: The issue of cost recovery arises in the market rehabilitation component and the
community-driven rural productivity and marketing improvement component. For market infrastructure
rehabilitation the project will adopt operating procedures developed by the Albanian Development Fund to
ensure financial commitment of the participating community by requiring a contribution of around 10
percent of project costs prior to the commencement of project activities in the community. Second, market
development projects will not be approved for inclusion in the project without a market maintenance plan
that identifies the operating and maintenance costs of the market and details arrangements for collecting
those costs from the market participants.
Cost recovery issues will also be carefully addressed in the design of the community-driven rural
productivity and marketing improvement component. The beneficiaries will have to pay at least 25 percent
of the total costs as either in kind or cash contributions. Although a list of priority subjects has been
developed, the goal is to create a system that is responsive to beneficiary requests based on their analysis of
constraints and solutions rather than a preselected list of topics. Accordingly, the CGP will provide grants
for a wide range of possible technologies in crop and livestock production, processing and marketing.
Priority will be given to proposals that consist of appropriate and affordable technologies and concepts
designed to increase rural productivity, add value, and increase market-acceptability of agricultural
products in line with national strategy. Some examples of cost estimates for potential activities are given in
Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
Public recurrent costs after the project may be associated with operating public institutions related to seed
training and research and operating the Immovable Property Registration System. However, the net
incremental recurrent costs are expected to be low and sustainable. Experience from other countries shows
that in most cases registration systems soon pay for themselves and even can create profits.
The market rehabilitation component will have limited fiscal impact due to its implementation
through the municipalities. The municipalities will provide the ground on which the markets are
rehabilitated and will also be responsible for the management of the markets. They will thus gain revenues
through the fees on market activities, but will also be required to maintain the markets. It is not expected
that costs related to the component will negatively impact other public services in the municipality. It is
rather expected that the markets will contribute on net to the revenues generated in the municipality.
Project activities under the community-driven rural productivity and marketing improvement
component are community based and will not have an immediate or major fiscal impact. The design of the
project assumes that the beneficiaries of the component are setting their own priorities through their
proposals and will only participate if they can afford to contribute at least 25 % cash or in kind to the
overall costs.
3. Technical:
The technical approaches suggested under the project are robust and take into consideration technical
experience of similar components in Albania or other countries. Seed development will be limited to
activities which strengthen the public institutions for seed-related training and research and improve the
regulatory framework for seeds. Component design has refrained from introducing various sub-project
activities to strengthen public-private partnership, in order to simplify and streamline the project. The land
- 22 -



development component will mainly focus on the improvement of the current land registration system and
will pilot methods for land consolidation in Albania. It largely builds on and expands existing efforts of
USAID over the last years to improve the operation of the central registry office and the land titling and
registration system. The market rehabilitation component builds on the experience of ADF and lessons
leamed during the successful Rural Development Project. It will be based on a strong collaboration and
commitment of municipalities to contribute to and maintain market facilities and will be strictly
implemented on a demand basis. The community-based rural productivity and marketing component will
build on the experience of competitive grant schemes and their implementation set-up conducted in other
ECA countries. While implementation arrangements of the scheme will be similar to other grant schemes,
the scope of activities to be financed will go beyond the traditional focus of research and extension
activities.
Seed Development. Further development in the sector depends on a revision of the Seed Law aiming at
establishing a more open market, allowing private companies to introduce new cultivars from the EU and
other countries and to cut costs in seed production. It is intended that the EU Common Catalogue would be
legally accepted in Albania, eliminating an additional round of seed test in the country, as well as to move
towards voluntary variety registration. These steps are necessary to prevent long time lags in the
introduction of new varieties in Albania, reducing the dependence on local variety development. This will
allow Albanian farmers to seize market opportunities with partners in the European Union requesting
special seeds which are currently not registered in Albania. During project preparation IDA assisted in the
development of a seed law which was passed by parliament in January 2001 and awaits approval by the
President. Strengthening of the seed regulatory framework will also include the preparation of a law for
plant variety protection consistent with UPOV, and assisting steps towards membership in OECD seed
schemes. Selected seed research institutions and the national seed institute will be supported allowing for an
increase in the quality of the seeds produced and a larger participation of farmers in producing breeder
seeds, better testing methods and the collection of wild germplasm.
Land Development. Land markets are only beginning to function in Albania as legislation regulating land
sales came into effect only in 1998 and approximately 80% of the rural land registration is only now
complete. Market imperfection continues to hinder the reduction of land fragmentation resulting from land
privatization activities in the nineties. The demand-driven, market led approach will facilitate and
encourage land consolidation by facilitating land transactions (parcel exchange, rental/lease, purchase/sale)
and by piloting approaches to land consolidation. In the current post-privatization phase of land markets,
transactions are beginning to occur. But they are scarce and hampered by inadequate information,
complicated procedures and high costs. The project will assist by directly subsidizing the costs of initial
consolidation transaction. Four districts have been selected to pilot land transaction activities: Suc
commune in Mat district, Fiershegan commune in Lushnja district, Frakull in Fier district and Pojan in
Korca district. The basic criteria for the selection are that they are (i) areas of adequate irrigation and
relatively intensive agriculture; (ii) land registration is finalized and ex-owner claims are no problem; (iii)
commune leaders and landholders are supportive of the pilot activities; and (iv) locations are proximate to
other project activities. The support for IPRS builds on the current USAID funded program of support to
land registration and will expand on their activities. The system will be supported through (i) the
rehabilitation of the Tirana office complex; (ii) design and implementation of a fully automated IPRS in
pilot offices; and (iii) rollout of system in all districts.
Market Development. Proposals have been developed for four wholesale markets in the districts of
Lushnja, Vlore, Korca and Shkodra. Three of the districts have existing markets in cramped sites which are
privately owned and could be diverted to other uses by the owner at any time. One site is publicly owned
and unsuitable. The proposed designs would address the shortcomings of the respective markets. The
- 23 -



market locations were selected due to their strategic location on import/export routes, the existence of a
market and the interest of the municipalities to improve the current wholesale and farmers market facilities.
Appropriate locations are identified for the four markets. However, investment in any site would be
dependent on the municipalities obtaining a clear title to the proposed site. Market development in Lushnja
and Vlora will start in a first phase because feasibility studies are finalized and land issues are solved. In a
second phase, Korca and Shkodra will follow and resources will be made available over and above the
investment cost of market rehabilitation to invest in additional market infrastructure. The project will
potentially also contribute to the construction of the Tirana wholesale market if sufficient additional
resources can be mobilized by the government. Technical assistance will be made available to the
communities for training in the operation and maintenance activities of the markets. Rehabilitation of retail
markets has been conducted by the ADF in recent years. Experience gained in the process will be
considered in the implementation of the component.
Community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement. The component will use an approach
which is new to Albania and Albanian stakeholders. It has, however, been tested in various other countries
of the region and the implementation design builds on these experiences. The approach involves the
establishment of an administratively simple and easily implementable support program. A Competitive
Grants Program (CGP) which will award small grants for technology demonstration and transfer activities
including test marketing and market studies will be established. Grants will be made available to existing
community-based groups such as farmer/producer and agro-processing associations; farmer interest groups
(FIGs) associated with Water User Associations and Savings and Credit Associations; and FIGs formed for
extension delivery purposes by the public extension service and other programs. The ASP will not support
the creation of additional groups and associations since many already exist in the rural areas and a number
of other projects and programs have supported these developments, although informal groups may need to
register to participate depending on legal considerations. In addition, the component will not provide direct
budgetary support for the public extension service, although FIGs working in partnership with the public
extension service will be eligible to apply with the CGP to cover incremental extension service costs.
Support for the component by all stakeholders, including government, municipal administration, NGOs,
farm groups and associations has been sought during project preparation and will be continued during
project implementation. A detailed manual has been developed on the mechanisms to implement the
competitive grant scheme. Priorities have been based on a consensus in the country. The set-up of the
scheme intends to allow broad participation including experts in the respective fields in the decision making
process. The approach will be demand-driven responding to the needs articulated by, and draw on the
creativeness of, the Albanian farmers and specialists.
4. Institutional:
The institutional environment in which the project will be implemented is challenging. It involves many
actors in the respective components and to a large extent will require active and participatory engagement.
While the components have been identified to address urgent problems in agriculture in Albania and their
joint impact is somewhat linked, each component will require its own institutional arrangements. While
capacity in the governmental institutions certainly has built up over the past years, new approaches will
require further training and staff commitment. However, the existing institutional framework is considered
adaequate to mitigate against most of the institution-related risks associated with this operation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main executing agencies are the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. These
agencies will have the overriding implementation role especially for all activities related to govemment
institutions. This will apply mainly to the seed and land development components. The seed development
component will involve the national seed institute for the coordination of seed and variety testing and
- 24 -



selected seed research stations to produce elite seeds and continue breeding and field research. The land
market development will involve the Tirana Central Registry Office and regional offices. Market
rehabilitation will be planned and implemented in close cooperation with municipal and local authorities
who will be in charge of the market operations. The community-based rural productivity and marketing
component will involve a broad range of agencies aiming at the broadest inclusion possible including
communities, NGOs, farm associations, local institutions. Participation opportunities exist through the
option to deliver proposals, and the competitive grant committee.
4.2 Project management:
A project management unit has been established and staffed to oversee preparation of the project. The
director is working closely with the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance in the course of project
preparation and has consulted closely with directors of other project management units responsible for IDA
financed projects. In addition to the staff already working in the project unit, the competitive grant
secretariat will be based there. The grant secretariat will be staffed with a coordinator and an assistant and
will draw on local consultancies for training activities and information campaigns. The PMU will be
supported through experts in the various fields for short periods of time.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No procurement issues are anticipated. Most of the procurement activities will be limited to local
procurement (with the exception of international TA). See Annex 6 for details.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The World Bank is going to finance two new agricultural projects in Albania (the Agricultural Service
Project and the Fishery Project) which will be implemented by separate implementation units of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The PMUs, however, are located in the same building. In order to avoid
duplication in staff and improve segregation of duties between accounting and disbursement, it was decided
to establish a single accounting department that will handle the financial management for both projects. The
staffing of the accounting department will therefore be composed of one accountant and one disbursement
officer. The accountant and the disbursement officer have already been hired.
Although there will be one accounting department for both operations, the financial management systems of
the two projects will be maintained separately. As the project implementation phase represents a
continuation of an existing Project Preparation Facility, a (substantial) upgrade of the existing system is
required. This upgrade will consist mainly of (i) the computerization of the system, (ii) the tailoring of the
system to the project, (iii) the establishment of policies, procedures and reporting system for the Project,
and (iv) practical implementation training for the accountant and disbursement officer.
For this purpose, a short term accounting consultant has been recruited who is supporting the accounting
department in the upgrading of the financial management system. The consultant has also installed an
accounting software that is able to produce all the required PMRs. The Bank's FMS has assessed the
financial management system of the project and has issued the 4-B Certificate on April 26, 2001.
Since the Agriculture Service Project will consist of four components, the fourth being a grant scheme
(which is estimated at about 150 grants to farmers associations or NGOs of between USD 1,000 and
15,000), the financial management system of the project will account for the first three project components.
For the fourth component (the grant scheme), the project accountant is responsible to (i) design a simple
accounting and reporting system that will be adopted by each recipient of the grants, and (ii) set up a
simple monitoring/control system for each of these grants (considering that no formal audit will be
requested for these grants).
- 25 -



To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain, and operate, under conditions
acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. The Project
will disburse under IDA's traditional Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving
to the Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method at the mutual agreement of the
Borrower and IDA.
Audit Arrangements. Regarding the audit arrangements, the accounts and financial statements of the
project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit will be comprehensive and
cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred) and it
will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. Although auditors will be
appointed by the Ministry of Finance to carry out this audit as part of an overall agreement for the audit of
the IDA-financed portfolio, the PMU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, to provide the Bank
with the project's audited financial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal year.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment was carried out as part of project preparation. It is anticipated that the ASP
will have environmental benefits and will not have any major environmental impacts. Both the Rural
Market Development component and the Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing component
would finance small scale rural infrastructure which could have local environmental impacts. The project is
rated an environmental category "FI" because investments under the community-based component would
be awarded on a competitive basis, and therefore will not be known until the project is under
implementation.
The environmental assessment was discussed with local stakeholders at a series of workshops. An
Environmental Management Plan prepared during project preparation will be implemented to mitigate
environmental impacts identified by the Environmental Assessment, and to inform environmental reviews
that should be carried out for activities.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Assessment concluded that there is a legal and institutional framework for
environmental reviews in Albania, but the responsible agency (National Environmental Agency) lacks the
financial and technical support needed to carry out environmental impact assessments of most projects. An
Environmental Management Unit was established within the Ministry of Agriculture in 1998 to provide
environmental expertise to the agriculture sector, starting with the IDA-financed Forestry Project. This
unit would provide technical assistance in environment management to the Agricultural Services Project.
Mitigation measures provided for in the EMP are adequate and include:
1. Potential impact to germplasm as a result of the import of seeds under the Seed Sector Development
component. The project would finance the collection and conservation of Albanian seed germplasm.
2. Potential impacts of small-scale infrastructure under the Rural Market Development component. The
project incorporates an environmental assessment procedure and capacity building which will be
implemented by the team which implements the small grant activities. The Project Implementation Unit
will work under the direction of the National Environment Agency and the Environmental Management
Unit to ensure that Albanian environmental assessment laws are met, and that environmental protection
- 26 -



objectives are mainstreamed into the small scale infrastructure investments, including siting of the
infrastructure, operations, and waste disposal. These will be financed by the project.
3. Potential impacts of investments under the Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing
Improvement component. Project staff and consultants will receive training in applying environmental
standards in the appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, thereby assuring that sub-projects are in
compliance with Albanian environmental regulations and World Bank safeguards. This training will be
used in two ways. First, the evaluation criteria for grants to be awarded under this component would be
developed to include environmental benefits, and projects with serious potential environmental impacts
would be excluded. Second, the staff and consultants will ensure that appropriate mitigation measures are
adopted for the investments (e.g., small scale agroprocessing facilities). The PMU will organize the
environmental assessments and monitor the implementation of mitigation measures. This will assure that
grant proceeds are used in a manner consistent with Albanian environmental laws and regulations and Bank
policy.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 20, 2001
A final Environmental Assessment was prepared by an international consultant working with local
consultants in Albania. The assessment was based on the following activities: (i) field visits to probable
project sites and meetings with communities, groups and individuals which will be affected by the project;
(ii) identification of important environmental components, potential impacts, and mitigative measures; (iii)
provision of guidelines for public consultation and participating in public consultation sessions; (iv)
meeting with NGOs and donor agencies to discuss existing and planned programs and to identify potential
impacts and mitigative measures; and (v) development of environmental management plan activities with
PMU and the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources.
5.4 How have stakeholders becn consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A workshop was held with eight NGOs and three Government of Albania agencies (National
Environmental Agency, Crop Production Section of the MAF and the Environmental Protection Unit of the
Department of Forestry, MAF). An announcement was made in the main Tirana newspaper indicating that
the draft environmental review of ASP is available and can be reviewed and discussed at the Agricultural
University of Tirana on February 6, 2001. Copies of the draft assessment were distributed to all relevant
governmental agencies and NGOs. The public hearing was followed by a two day workshop on
environmental awareness. The final report incorporated the results of the workshop.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See E.5.1 and E.5.3
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was completed in August 2000 as part of project preparation. The SA utilized a
survey of 1,000 households, 22 interviews of agricultural service experts, and 11 focus group discussions
with project beneficiaries. A stakeholder workshop was held in June 2000, and presented myriad
stakeholder views that were incorporated into the SA.
- 27 -



The key social development issues identified through the SA include:
Land resources are available to most Albanians but land plots are small and scattered and the distribution
of land in the privatization process was uneven, particularly in the south. Many stakeholders believe that
the fragmentation of holdings reinforces inefficient production. Yet, consolidation of land to yield more
efficient production is being stymied by the lack of trust farmers have in those who are not part of their
extended farnily.
Because most farmers depend on their own land to feed themselves, they most value food security and
minimizing risk. Therefore, they diversify their crop and livestock production. Such diversification makes
it difficult to use equipment and other forms of automation, exacerbating the inefficiency already caused by
small land plots. About 60 percent of farmers sell at least some of their production. Milk, meat and wheat
are the major products sold. But transportation and/or low demand for products are the two major
obstacles to selling. Farmers usually sell at local venues such as the local, village or district markets or at
roadside locations because of transportation problems.
Farmers are dissatisfied with seed quality and variety, largely because they use the same seed stock every
year. Limited sources of improved seeds and lack of information about improved material are the two
principal reasons farmers do so. Farners believe that improved information would lead to improvements in
the quality and variety of seed available. Additionally, a potential solution to improve seed quality is to
help farmers specialize in growing seeds for sale to other farmers. This solution would require improved
training in seed production and increased capital available to invest in seed production.
Albania's relations among and within communities, neighborhoods and families are strong, and the
population is generally optimistic about its future. Some minor tensions and small-scale crime exist, and
they may be increasing due to weakening community relations caused by the transition from communism.
The biggest problems for communities and families are economic - inadequate income, infrastructure and
health care are the principal problems. Migration is not yet perceived as a significant problem, but many
want their children to move to find new opportunities, which could cause migration problems in the future.
While community relations are perceived to be strong and beneficial, these positive findings do not apply to
the public's view of government agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Citizens do not
trust government and NGOs because they are difficult to access, slow to respond, are confusing, or require
informal payments.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholders have participated, and will continue to participate in the project in three ways: 1) proactive
input into the design of the project through a social assessment (SA); 2) use of a stakeholder workshop to
solicit the views of stakeholders on project implementation and outputs; and 3) use of community-driven
development components in the project to empower stakeholders to implement parts of the project
themselves.
Stakeholders will increase their participation in Albania's development under the project. Rural producers
will work with NGOs, trade associations and other business interests to develop grant proposals for
demonstration and training on new technologies, improved processing, and new trade opportunities to be
submitted to a Competitive Grant Scheme. Rehabilitation of market infrastructure and development of new
mechanisms for their upkeep and management during the project will encourage greater stakeholder
participation. Establishment and strengthening of existing trade and producer associations and measures to
improve market information and promote trade will empower farmers by increasing their knowledge and
marketing opportunities. Land registration services will be strengthened, and these should improve the
- 28 -



functioning of the land market and increase the security of tenure of virtually all rural families in Albania.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil socicty
organizations?
Civil society will help to implement and sustain the project. NGOs and business groups have
participated in the design of the project and they will continue their roles in implementing key components.
Rural markets rehabilitated under the project will be managed through partnerships of local government
and the private sector market participants, including producers.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A central mission of the project is to help develop efficient institutions and organizations to sustain project
activities. The PMU will carry on the activities now being handled by the PPU. It will maintain adequate
staff to oversee project implementation, including monitoring and evaluation staff, who will be responsible
for social impact monitoring. The marketing component will focus on developing institutional
arrangements for the management and maintenance of rehabilitated market infrastructure that emphasize
public/private sector partnerships. The land component will, on the one hand, strengthen the capacity of a
public agency - the Chief Registrar's Office - to operate an efficient system of regional land registration
offices and, on the other hand, test mechanisms to encourage land consolidation based on market
transactions. Part of this pilot initiative will be to identify institutional arrangements that will be needed to
expand the pilot activities if warranted. The seed development component will provide support both for the
development of private sector capacity to provide improved planting material in a liberalized seed sector
and the strengthening of the public sector's capacity to provide basic public goods in the sector such as
research, and testing. Finally, the community-based component will promote the involvement of private
entities in the provision of basic applied research and extension activities aimed at solving priority
problems identified by the community members. Support for the Competitive Grants Board will build
capacity to administer such programs in the future.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will provide long-term, continuous and adaptable support to agricultural development in
Albania. Therefore, the results of initial phases of the project must be recorded, assessed, and used to
develop additional solutions to problems. A participatory monitoring and evaluation system will be
implemented for the project. A base-line survey will be conducted at the time of project inception to
provide the base-line indicators against which performance will be gauged. Private-sector actors, such as
trade associations or NGOs will help establish and measure the M&E parameters over time and modify
them, where appropriate. The PMU will ensure that the capacity of these associations to monitor and
evaluate project results exists before responsibilities are transferred to them.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
PWIcY   -   L                             AAphability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
- 29 -



Pro-ects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental assessment has been conducted ensuring wide participation of relevant agencies. Refer to
section E.5.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed operation is associated with significant risk, both at the country level, as well as at the level
of the individual components. Sustainability, beyond the implementation period, is considered likely for
those project activities which are carried out largely in the domain of the private sector and communities, as
demonstrated by the limited impact of the 1997 civil unrest on private sector assets and initiatives. Hence,
activities related to strengthening national seed associations and farmer-based seed production, developing
public/private links to support community-based initiatives to address productivity and marketing
conditions and establishing a market infrastructure would appear to be sustainable beyond the life of the
project, once initiated. Sustainability of regulatory reforms associated with liberalizing the seeds sector is
equally considered likely, once implemented. The final design of activities associated with strengthening the
capacity of the MAF and the Registrar's Offices has been carefully tailored to ensure sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rk                      Ri.k RnRskMitigatioMesam 
From Outputs to Objective
Private seed dealers and producers do not   M         Private sector traders have requested a freeing of
provide a supply response subsequent to              the seeds market for some time, and have shown
Government liberalizing the seed market.              considerable aptitude when presented with
Available seeds do not meet consumer                  opportunities. Facilitation of close linkages
demands for products. Farmers not                     between producers and consumers will limit the
willing to specialize in seed production.             production of seeds not in demand.
Demonstration activities will raise awareness of
potential gains of seed production. In a
liberalized seed sector, seed multiplication
should be a profitable enterprise.
Improved registration of land markets will  N         Willingness to consolidate land is high in
not impact the number of transfers and                Albania due to the extreme parcellation.
will not facilitate land consolidation.               Consolidation is mainly hindered through the
complicated and costly procedures.
Land holders do not trust the legal         M         Improvement in the land registration system has
infrastructure in place.                              to go along with clear legislation on land
transactions and enforcement of land rights.
- 30 -



Rehabilitated markets fail to attract a        M          Markets will only be rehabilitated in areas where
significant no. of wholesale and farmers                  markets have evolved naturally and have proven
market volumes. Little additional products                to operate. Rehabilitation will be based on a
can be marketed.                                          thorough assessment of market opportunities.
Domestically produced products cannot           S         Overall project should contribute to increasing
compete with imported agriculture                         competitiveness, as would location of market
commodities and food in terms of price                    infrastructure aiming to minimize transport
and quality.                                              costs and marketing activities.
Projects realized under the competitive         S         Project proposals will be carefully evaluated by
grant scheme fail to generate calculated                  experts as well as the grant committee, judged
benefits and have limited spread-over                     on the realism of their calculations and
effect to other farmers and relevant                      supported during the implementation process.
groups.
From Components to Outputs
Government unwilling to liberalize seed        N          Seed market liberalization is an explicit
markets early in project implementation                   objective of the GOA Green Strategy, though
with a longer time horizon, and first steps have
been taken.
National seed institute not able to             S         Procedures will be developed in close
establish voluntary seed quality                          cooperation with all involved parties to build
procedures which are trusted by the                       trust early in the process.
market.
Registrar Offices not willing and able to      M          Land Registration Office has gone through
undertake institutional reform.                           considerable institutional change in the past.
Technical assistance will be provided for the
transition period.
Farmers' potential lack of interest to         M          Selection of cadastre zones having fully
participate in voluntary land consolidation               registered properties, with good agriculture
efforts                                                   potential and marketing opportunities; Social
assessment shows considerable interest by
farmers in potential solutions to land
fragmentation.
Inability of municipalities, farmers and       M          Market rehabilitation will only be implemented
traders to associate for the purpose of                   where clear indication exists of the interest of
establishing and operating market                         various parties. Market operation training will
infrastructure.                                           be offered.
Insufficient marketable surplus available       S         Feasibility study to determine available
in catchment area of selected market                      throughput; high potential areas, with proven
infrastructure threatening financial                      production record to be selected for
viability of investment.                                  establishment of market infrastructure.
- 31 -



Groups are not sufficiently organized to    S        Consultations during project preparation proved
fulfill eligibility criteria of projects under       large interest in the component and acceptable
the grant scheme. Information of grant               pilot proposals already exist. An information
scheme is not widely spread, thus giving             campaign will be one building block of the
advantage to informed groups.                        component and will be conducted early in the
process as well as throughout implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversies are associated with this project.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants:
*   Submission to Parliament of a PVP law satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 2001.
*   Submission to IDA of an Annual Work Program and Budget satisfactory to IDA by November 30 of
each year for the following Government fiscal year.
Condition of Disbursement:
*   Prior to disbursement for sub-component to develop the immovable property registration system,
measures satisfactory to IDA shall be adopted in the Tirana Registration Office to improve customer
access and crowd flow by December 31, 2001.
Audits and Accounts:
*   Standard auditing covenants will apply.
Management:
* The PMU will be maintained and adequately staffed.
Monitoring, review and reporting:
*   Standard reporting covenants will apply.
*   An in-depth mid-term review will be undertaken no later then June 30, 2004.
- 32 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
i 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
G 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Comments:
add 2. The full procurement assessment has been finalized during appraisal. A detailed procurement plan
is available.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
{qfi Van Roy Sou   orth                 Jo e h R. oldberg; Kevin M.       Christiaan  Poortman
Team Leader                        S  tor Manager                     Country Manager
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
Hi b~of *Wfet,64    [     _ o o e                    Motoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improving governance and    Existence of appropriate                             Security, law and order
institution building in   incentive framework.          *  Statistics from (1)   prevails in the country.
strategic areas in the                                     Ministry of Local
agriculture sector         Functioning land markets.       Government, and (2)    Government maintains focus
Ministry of Agriculture  on long term issues associated
Promoting sustainable private Improved rural market        and Forestry          with governance and
sector growth             infrastructure existing.                               institution building.
*  ESW reports (periodic)
Poverty alleviation        Increase in aggregate                                 Continued maintenance of
agriculture output and growth   *  National Accounts  macroeconomic stability.
Sustain agriculture growth   rates.
*  Trade Statistics      A largely distortion free
Increase in share of domestic                         incentive framework,
market for agriculture                                unaffected by food aid
markets supplied from local                           imports.
production.
Reduction of food imports as
share of trade balance.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Creation of an environment   *Increased access to improved *Comprehensive reports  Adequate macro policy
conducive to rural income   seed supplies and planting    (baseline/interim/final  framework in place.
growth and poverty reduction   materials as measured by the  surveys) based on M&E
by addressing key constraints  number of varieties available  system and performance  Ownership and support of
facing Albania's emerging   and the increased availability  indicators to assess the  government and
small-holder farmers in     of high quality seeds;     economic and social impact  municipalities of component
production, trade and land                             of project activities and  set-up.
markets.                                               monitor implementation
performance throughout    Complementarity of initiatives
project period.           and projects related to
agriculture and rural areas.
*Increased production of   *Additional surveys initiated
breeder seeds and         through the various
multiplication of basic seeds  components.
by seed research stations up
to 25%.
- 34 -



* Successful piloting of land
consolidation initiatives as
measured by an increase in
security of ownership of
land, the reduced
fragmentation of farms in
pilot areas and increases in
land transactions;
* Improved efficiency of land
registration process for
arable land, forest and
pastures as measured in the
decrease of time to register
land transactions and the
increase of the number of
clients served by the land
registration offices by 50%;
* Improved access to market
facilities, improved quality
of market facilities and
increased import substitution
with Albanian produce in
areas where markets have
been rehabilitated, and
increase in revenues of
municipalities through
market operation;
* Increase of the volume of
goods traded in the
developed or rehabilitated
markets by around 20% and
an increase in the diversity
of products available;
* Successful organization of
community groups to
promote productivity and
marketing enhancements as
measured through the
implementation of at least
100 grant proposals and
outreach to at least 2,000
farmers through
demonstrations and
workshops and a broader
audience through printed
material and mass media.
- 35 -



Key Pvf~~~~~E"ILAee
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Seed Sector Development
Seed regulations liberalized,  Access to improved seed  For all outputs:             Available seeds meet
enhanced role of the private   supplies and planting                                 consumer demands for
sector fostering competition.  materials improved as      *  Project Management    products.
measured by the number of        quarterly reports for
dealers and varieties            monitoring the physical Farmers make use of the
available.                       and financial          increased availability of seeds.
Removal of regulatory            implementation of the
barriers; adjusting seed         project.               Willingness of farmers to
regulations to international                            specialize in seed production
standards;                    *  Farm Baseline and
Contacts made with seed          additional Surveys
associations.
2. Land Market Development                                *  Progress reports of     Improved registration of land
In land markets with support  Successful piloting of land    various components      markets will impact land
for improved land registration consolidation initiatives as                          transfers and support
and pilot initiatives for land   measured by the reduced  *  Official Gazette        structural changes.
consolidation               fragmentation of farms in
pilot areas, increases in land                           Landholders trust the legal
transactions.                                           infrastructure.
3. Market Development
Selected market infrastructure Wholesale markets in                                  Land ownership rights can be
rehabilitated, market activities Lushnje, Vlora and                                  satisfactory solved.
successfully facilitated and    additional markets in a second
access to timely and relevant  phase rehabilitated (probably                         Rehabilitated markets will
market information improved. Korce and Shkodra).                                     support an increase in
marketed products.
Agricultural marketing
studies at the local, regional                          Albanian consumers in areas
and national level to                                   where markets are
determine future market                                 rehabilitated will partially
infrastructure requirements                             shift their purchases towards
conducted.                                              locally produced products due
to their larger market
Frequency of use of                                     presence.
rehabilitated market facilities,
greater diversity in production                         Traders and consumers accept
and increased market share of                           the rehabilitated markets and
Albanian products.                                      frequent them regularly.
- 36 -



4. Community-Based Rural
Productivity and Marketing
Improvement
Accelerated transfer of   Organization of community                            Demonstrated technology will
technology to rural       groups to promote                                    be adapted by farmers and has
communities or farrner    productivity and marketing                           a positive impact on their
groups, empowering rural    enhancements as measured by                        production process.
communities to diversify  the number of proposals
production and improve    financed and the number of
productivity and processing   farmers reached by the
program; Range of
demonstration activities
including processing and
marketing particular
agricultural products
supported.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Seed Market Development                                                     Government willing to open
Component                 US$ 1.3 million, of which   *  Quarterly project     seed markets and ready to
management reports    privatize NSI.
Improved seed regulatory  - US$ 0.7 million
framework and institutions                            *  Quarterly disbursement Ability of NSI to establish
reports              voluntary seed quality
Strengthening of public   - US$ 0.6 million                                    procedures which command
institutions for seed-related                                                  the trust of the market.
training and research
2. Land Market Development US$ 2.4 million, of which                           Farmers regard agriculture as
sufficiently income generating
Immovable Property        - US$ 1.7 million                                    to be willing to invest in land.
Registration System
Land Consolidation Pilot  - US$ 0.7 million
Project
3. Market Development     US$ 4.1 million                                      Ability to link-up
municipalities with farmers
Development of Rural Market - US$ 3.6 million                                  and traders to establish and
Infrastructure                                                                 operate collection and
wholesale markets;
Training activities on market - US$ 0.5 million
operation, market promotion                                                     Ownership, management and
activities and studies for the                                                 contractual arrangements
development of agricultural                                                    clarified between
markets                                                                        municipalities, and
sponsoring associations.
- 37 -



4. Community-Based Rural   US$ 2.5 million                                      Groups are sufficiently
Productivity and Marketing                                                      organized to fulfill criteria for
Improvement                                                                     the eligibility of pilot projects.
Competitive grant scheme    - US$ 2.0 million                                   Information is spread widely
allowing for a broad
Competitive grant program    - US$ 0.5 million                                  participation of groups.
secretariat and reviews
5. Project Management     US$ 1.33 million
6. Project Preparation Facility US$ 0.55 million
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
The Albania Agriculture Services Project aims to carry out the following components: (i) seed market
development; (ii) land market development; (iii) market development; and (iv) community-based rural
productivity and marketing improvement. The seed development component will target the whole country,
while the other components will primarily focus on selected pilot areas, proposals or will have a phased
approach (component 4). For details refer to the project implementation plan (PIP).
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.34 million
Seed Market Development
The objectives of this component are: (a) to ensure farmer access to a full range of seed technology
that is equal to what is available to farmers in other developed countries; and (b) to foster establishment
and development of public and private seed-related institutions (including especially private seed
companies) suitable for developed market economies and able to work with similar institutions in the EU,
US, and other countries.
This component builds on recent achievements, including development of a network of wholesale and
retail dealers distributing inputs to small farmers through more than 100 stores throughout Albania and
establishment of several private trade associations representing new and emerging seed traders and
producers. The rate of change in the sector has accelerated particularly in the last year. There is a clear
trend toward high value crops and seeds (vegetables, vineyards, and orchards). For wheat, potatoes and
alfalfa, private seed producers have also expanded production. Key developments are sunmmarized below:
3   The number of sapling producers increased from less then five to about 30 in 2000. Sapling production
doubled in the samne period, but even so, 60-70 percent of total sales by value are imported, which
shows market potential. Total value of all sapling sales is now estimated at $1.6 million, of which
about $1.0 million is grape saplings. Nurseries import root stock and cuttings from Macedonia,
Greece, Bulgaria, and Italy. Several nurseries have established local root stock production.
* Import and sale of vegetable seed - mostly hybrids for high-value greenhouse production of tomatoes
and cucumbers, but also including some hybrids for field tomatoes, melons and peppers - has roughly
doubled in value over the past year to an estimated US$ 2.0 million in 2000.
* Among field crops, current seed sales for wheat are estimated at about 1,800 tons worth US$ 720,000
(about five percent of wheat planted area). Some foreign varieties are making inroads into the market.
* By value, one of the most important field crops in the seed trade is potatoes. In 2000, Albania
imported 660 tons of potato seed worth about $500,000 while total value of retail sales of 1,100 tons
came to about $1.2 million. This amount of seed is sufficient for only about five percent of the
estimated 10,000 hectares planted to potatoes. A number of seed companies are getting into potato seed
import and production or considering to do so.
Success with this component will be greatly enhanced by recent changes in Albania's seed law to
establish a more open market, allowing private companies to introduce new cultivars from EU and other
countries and to cut costs for seed production. The new seed law passed by Parliament in January 2001
- 39 -



allows voluntary variety registration for most cultivars and accepts registration in the EU Common
Catalogue for most all others. Moreover, seed certification will be liberalized as well to allow certification
and truth in labeling testing to be carried out by any licensed laboratory. Finally, drafting is underway of
revised Plant Variety Protection (PVP) legislation which deals with breeders rights. International experts
on PVP have been retained with PHRD resources to review and comment on the draft PVP law.
To help maintain the recent momentum in the seed sector the project will provide for the following
activities (see table below for details).
* Improved seed regulatory framework and institutions through financing for equipment, training, and
technical assistance in support of: (i) finalization of the PVP law, review of phytosanitary controls, and
steps towards membership in OECD Seed Schemes; (ii) Value in Cultivation and Use (VCU) tests for a
new list of recommended cultivars; (iii ) international tour and training on regulatory systems and
electrophoresis testing; and (iv) the National Seed Institute to coordinate seed and variety testing and
germplasm collection.
*   Strengthening public institutions for seed-related training and research through financing for vehicles,
equipment, training and technical assistance for: (i) for surveying, collecting, and in situ preservation of
endemic wild gennplasm for medicinal plants and wheat relatives; (ii) testing of selected new public
cultivars in an EU country for EU registration and/or PVP registration; (iv) selected crop research
institutes to produce good quality breeders' and super elite seed and to continue variety testing and
development activities; (v) the Agricultural University to provide seed-related training, including
special courses for private companies on demand; and (v) study tours and attendance at international
meetings for technical staff in the seed sector for both public and private sector institutions.
In addition to the specific support outlined above, the project will also provide support for private
sector seed indus  development through the Technology Transfer and Market Development component.
Activities by groups or institutions active in the seed sector aimed at developing new approaches,
demonstrating new seed technology, or conducting applied research could be supported by the grant scheme
to be supported under the Technology Transfer and Market Development Component. Groups likely to
participate in the grant scheme include the Agri-business Dealers Association (AFADA), National Seeds
and Saplings Association, and other seed associations.
-40 -



Seed Sector Development Component
Proposed Activities and Costs by Organization
Implementing       Activity                      Budget allocation
organization
Project            (a) Arranging tours for private   $75,000 (over 3 years); estimating 50 private and 30 public
Management         seed company and              research, Agriculture University, and MAF staff on 2-wk tours;
Unit               govemment research staff to   private members pay 50% of their air ticket and submit reports for
visit EU seed companies and   public circulation
seed association meetings
National Seed      (a) Logistical support for NSI    $ 200,000, including
Institute          regional offices: vehicles,   (i) 3 vehicles
computers, and vehicle       (ii) computers and office equipment for 3 offices
operating expenses for three  (iii) vehicle expenses (4 years)
years
(b) Support for value in      $ 60,000 (years one, two and three): estimated to pay 75 % of
cultivation and use (VCU)     testing fees in year one; 50 % in year two; 25 % in year three; 0 %
tests and distinctiveness,   in year four.
uniformity, and stability
(DUS) tests for cultivars
(c) International training and    $ 50,000 (over first year), including:
tours, including: 3-person    (i) Regulations study tour
team from NSI, MAF, and
private sector to see seed
regulatory systems in US and    (ii) Foreign training on electrophoresis testing (NSI and MAF
an EU country; 2-wk training    research staff)
for 3 people on electrophoresis
testing
(d) Wild germplasm            $ 125,000 (over 3 years), indicative budget:
assessment and collection for    (i) senior expert and coordinator: 36 months local full-time expert
medicinal plants and wheat
relatives                     (ii) 4 short-term local scientists to collect and assess germplasm
(30 months over three years
(iii) international TA (3 months total during years one and two)
(iv) equipment for tissue culture processing and storage
equipment
(v) and civil works for tissue culture processing and storage
(vi) Expenses for evaluation, purification, storage, etc, of
collected germplasm for ex situ preservation (seeds or tissue
culture) as required (viii) Seminars, publications, etc, to discuss
wild germplasm collection, value of new accessions, etc (3 years):
Budget subtotal for NSI       $426,000
-41 -



3. MAF Science     Registration of selected new  $ 30,000 (over 4 years) to cover official tests and fees for
and Training       cultivars from Albanian      registering PVP for new Albanian public cultivars chosen by the
Directorate, MAF    public breeding for plant    Science and Training Directorate for potential commercial value
variety protection (PVP) in an   in the EU.
EU country.
Legal Department   Office equipment and          $ 8,800
furniture
4. Seed Research   Equipment, technical          $ 510,000 over four years
Institutions -     assistance and budget support
Support for        - allocation among stations
production of      and categories to be
super elite and    determined based on
elite seed,        feasibility study
5. Agricultural    (a) Equipment, research, and    (a) $ 80,000 (over 4 years)
University         publications to strengthen
faculty abilities to assist
development of Albania's seed
industry.
(b) short courses and applied    (b) $ 28,000 (over four years) available from the project for all
research for seed trade      course-related expenses (special TA, in-country travel,
associations and companies on   publications, etc. to cover 80 % of short-course costs, with
seed technology, seed trade,  remaining 20 % paid by private seed companies
etc.
(c) 2-yrs of special courses on    (c) $ 15,000 (1st and 2nd years) to cover expenses for University
germnplasm collection and    to prepare and present special course(s) on germplasm collection
preservation for 4 students  for 4 students and others as interested
selected to work with NSI
(and other students as room is
available)
Agricultural University      $ 133,000
subtotal
TOTAL                                            $1,200,000 base cost
Project Component 2 - US$2.40 million
Land Market Development
This component aims to foster further development of an efficient land market. It has two sub-components:
(i) improvement of the Immovable Property Registration System; and (ii) a pilot land consolidation
initiative.
Immovable Property Registration Sub-component The objective of this sub-component is to improve
the availability, access, and security of land market transactions in the Immovable Property Registration
System (IPRS) offices, to speed-up the undertaking of immovable property transactions, and to integrate
-42 -



the textual land rights information with the graphical index maps. It will allow the information in the IPRS
offices to have a wider usage in related agencies such as banks, the real estate industry, and by the citizens
of Albania.
The project will support information technology development in selected registration offices, which as a
first stage have been designed primarily as paper-based offices (between 1996 and 1999). The current
IPRS is a modem registration of title system that has been established in 36 district offices including in 2
offices in Tirana. The IPRS was first established in 1996 and now operates for more than one million
parcels and this will increase to approximately three million parcels by the end of 2001. Presently there are
about 25 land survey companies contracted and working nationwide registering titles at a rate of about
500,000 parcels registered per year. The current IPRS is paper-based using loose-leaf books and standard
forms. However, the first registration process has used digital data entry and processing for public displays
of property claims and for creating archives and indexing needs.
Over the past four years land registration in Albania has been supported by donor organizations such as
USAID and EU PHARE and by the Govemment of Albania. About US$12 million has been spent to-date.
Another US$ 6-8 million is planned to be spent by the end of 2001. There is an active Project Management
Unit (PMU) which is responsible for implementation of the Land Market Action Plan and is supported by
advisers from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Land Tenure Center. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Food (MAF) oversees the PMU's implementation of the Land Market Action Plan, approved by
Government in 1993, and the program for creating the Immovable Property Registration System.
In Albania the Law for the Registration of Immovable Properties - No. 8337, now operates in support of a
complex system of laws passed between 1991 and 1998. These laws created clear rights of ownership and
use of agricultural and urban lands by private individuals and companies. The Civil Code also approved by
Parliament in 1994 provides the legal framework for defining the various interests in immovable property.
Regulations approved under Law No. 7843 provide a further specification of how this law is to be
interpreted and implemented. There is also a transaction law - No. 8337, passed April 30, 1998, which
specifies how the ownership of agricultural land, pastures, meadows and forests may be transferred. Other
legislation specifies how the ownership claims of ex-owners to urban properties are restituted or
compensated, how state enterprises are privatized, and other privatization programs.
Several institutional issues involved in the Albanian immovable registration system have been addressed in
the last 6 months. These include the joining of urban deeds registration system office (Hipoteka offices) and
the Cadastre Offices (in MAF) to the IPRS offices (under an order issued by the MAF and the Minister of
Justice). The further integration of the PMU (under the MAF) with the Central office (which reports to the
Council of Ministers) will occur more smoothly once the Central Office facilities are re-furbished.
The PMU was set-up in 1993 to achieve first time registration of parcels and for the development of
immovable property market institutions, legislation and policies. It will cease operation when the Land
Market Action plan is completed, which is presently scheduled to occur at the end of 2001.
Now that the Land Market Action plan is nearing completion and first time registration of immovable
property is being accomplished, the focus is shifting to ensuring that the registration system is capable of
providing easy access to information and security of land market transactions. The Land Market
Development Component will assist in achieving this objective. Moreover the component will help to speed
up land transactions and to make integrate land rights information with graphical index maps.
The planned IPRS computer-assisted system implementation will commence in 2001 and will be
-43 -



implemented over a three year period and in four phases.
*   Phase I will rehabilitate the Tirana office complex (Central Registry and Tirana Registration Offices),
procure basic technology to automate the District IPRS offices, and provide training in the use of the
technology.
*   Phase II will design and develop a model for a fully automated IPRS. The Project and USAID Project
Management Unit (PMU) will jointly provide the technical assistance necessary to complete this phase.
Once the Model has been tested and accepted it will be implemented in Phase III.
*   Phase III will implement and test the Model for data sharing between the two development sites via a
wide area network or via the Internet.
*   Phase IV will be a complete rollout of the system in all Districts. The rollout will include procurement
of networking technology, implementation to the network and will provide training in the operation and
maintenance of the system.
Phase I - Rehabilitation of Tirana Office Complex. Phase one involves the rehabilitation of the central
office and consolidation of the Tirana regional offices into one site which currently houses the central
offices and Tirana I registration office. Funding will be provided to rehabilitate the building housing the
Tirana One IPRS and the Central Office. This will allow for the merger of Tirana One and Tirana Two
registration offices into one location, the relocation of the civil mapping organization, and the relocation of
the PMU into the same facility. Both the officials of the PMU and the Central Office agree that this is
necessary.
While map production is not a function of the registration system property maps are required to show
spatial relationships between properties and the physical features that define an administrative region. The
present mapping facilities in Tirana needs to be upgraded and requires more space. Therefore, space will be
prepared to move the mapping operations to the sixth floor of the building housing the Tirana I IPRS. As
the mapping capacity develops in the private sector more and more of the mapping activities should be
performed outside of the public sector with the eventual privatization of these operations. It is
recommended that by the end of the Project an assessment of the private sector capability be conducted and
a plan be prepared to privatize the mapping facilities. The facilities could remain in the same physical
location but would be operated by a private entity.
Automation in the IPRS Offices. It is desirable to introduce modem information technology according to
conditions and needs in the District IPRS offices throughout Albania. However, it is necessary to take a
phased approach rather than attempt to implement a nationwide, fully networked, system at once. The
immovable registration system is not yet matured to the point that afully functioning manual system is in
operation in all districts. It would not be a wise investment to attempt to automate the system until such
time that it is better defined and operating manually. The nationwide networked concept can be
implemented over time as the real property market expands and the demand for information grows to
require real time data sharing between different districts of the country.
Jurisdictions that have implemented central networked systems have done so to support demand for the real
property information rather than for intemal administrative purposes. Such a system is implemented when
clients such as banks, real estate brokers, and notaries are willing to pay for real time access to the IPRS
data and the system can be financially self sustainable. There is no evidence of such demand in Albania for
the next few years.
- 44 -



The Project will fund the development of appropriate infornation technologies for the IPRS offices in
phases over a 3 year period. During that timne, an assessment will be made of the need for a nationwide
network. The Project will fund the network based on the results of the assessment.
Technology and Data Entry. The Project will support the introduction of information technology to the
District IPRS offices such that the electronic property data already available for the respective Districts can
be used as soon as possible. This data and the updating software need to be loaded onto the computers in
the District offices and updated as soon as possible. The longer this data goes without updating the more
difficult it will be to ensure the data is accurate and reflects the actual ownership situation. Maintaining and
updating the property data is very important. There is evidence that property transactions are taking place
in all Districts. Therefore, the data that has been converted to digital format a few months ago is already
out of date.
The following steps will be taken to implement Phase I:
* The kartela updating software developed by the PMU will be installed on computers and should be
used at the IPRS offices as soon as possible. There is no need to wait for new technology to be installed
in those offices that already have computing capabilities. The PMU will work with Registrars to
upgrade existing computers to enable them to use word processing and spread sheet software, and to
speed up the use of the kartela updating software. This work will be performed by the PMU and the
Registrars under existing funding for those Registration Offices.
3 Data entry will continue and will be done by contracting to private entities in the Districts. Data quality
control will also be done in the Districts, with final controls performed in Tirana before final payments
to contractors are authorized. This approach will facilitate faster completion of the electronic databases
since the time required to transport the physical kartelas and lists back and forth to Tirana for checking
and quality control will be eliminated.
* Basic, late model computing equipment will be provided for all district IPRS offices. The following
approach will be used to equip the offices:
=> Smaller offices with a low level of activity will receive two computers and one printer.
=> Larger offices in regional centers will receive three or, depending on the level of activity, four
computers and two printers. One computer would be a higher performance unit that could be used
as a server.
=> This technology requirement is specifically for the IPRS. The technology requirements to
support other functions at the Central Office such as financial management, mapping, etc. will be
defined separately. the Tirana IPRS must be treated as a special case since it is much bigger and
the volume of transactions is much greater than any other office in the country. Although it is not
necessary to fully automate this office immediately it is especially critical to computerize the
property ownership data as soon as possible. This office will require a server on which the
database will reside and several networked workstations that will share software and hardware
devices.
* The Tirana 1 IPRS office procedures require a complete transformation. The management and
registration procedures presently used in this office, as well as its business and customer service
procedures, staff training and supervision have to be improved. Several steps have already been taken
to improve service levels, including the opening of two new service windows and the provision of
improved signage to guide customers. Further work to develop a business plan is being planned by the
- 45 -



PMU.
Training. Most of the existing office staff has no prior exposure to or experience with computers so it will
be necessary to provide introductory training courses for the operation of both the hardware and the
software. Training will be required in the use of Windows operating system, word processing, spreadsheets,
a basic database management system and any applications software that will be implemented to support
registration activities. The staff should be first enrolled in a basic computer course to prepare them for
training in the registry applications software.
Although the registry software is very easy to operate it is essential to have a basic understanding of
computer operations to effectively work with the system. This training should be scheduled in advance of
the delivery of the technology. In this way the staff will be ready to start training in the registry applications
software as soon as the technology is installed in their offices. Training for use of the registry software
should take place in the environment in which the staff will operate. Therefore, the Cental Office
responsible for the district IPRS offices will provide a training program that can be delivered to the
individual offices. In addition to the training materials used for the courses there should be training manuals
available that can be left at the offices for continuous reference by the staff.
Phase II - Model Development for Automation. In Phase II the following activities will be carried out.
*   Two IPRS offices will be selected as pilot sites for the development and testing of an automated
Registration Office. The IPRS management, in cooperation with the PMU, will select the development
sites.
*   One Regional IPRS office and one District office will be selected as pilot sites at which to develop a
model for a fully automated IPRS. The PMU will assist the IPRS offices with the implementation of
this phase. The following model development activities will take place at these sites:
* Policy development as to what IPRS functions will be automated and the priorities for automation,
D Definition of the business process model for an IPRS,
* Definition of the work flow,
D Definition of the data structures and the data models,
i Selection of a database management system,
*   Design of the forms for various transactions (buy/sell, leases, gifts, inheritance, judgements, liens,
mortgages, standard contracts, servitude)
*   The integration of textual and graphic data,
* System development,
* System implementation,
* System testing, and
*   System acceptance and commissioning.
The PMU will provide technical assistance for the development of the model for automation of the IPRS
offices. The PMU has provided assistance to the GOA in defining the functions of the IPRS offices and has
been instrumental in the establishment of the manual system that is presently in place.
-46 -



Phase III - Design and Implementation of A Pilot Wide Area Network. Phase III of the project will
design, implement and test a Model for data sharing between the two IPRS offices that were automated in
Phase II. The best method of transferring data between IPRS offices will be determined. Options such as a
wide area network or the Internet will be investigated as means of transmitting data efficiently between the
district offices. The Central Office wishes to be able to electronically access the management and
operational information required to support and maintain the system. This includes statistical information
such as the number of transactions taking place on a daily or weekly basis, the types of transactions,
financial information, etc. The idea is not to establish a central database of immovable property in Tirana
but rather to provide the operational information necessary to ensure that the offices are managed and
operating effectively. The results of the Pilot project will be used as the basis for the design, development
and implementation of a nationwide network.
Phase IV - Rollout of the Network Throughout the Republic. The first component of Phase IV will be
an assessment of the need for a nationwide network to support the management of immovable property
registration information. If it is determined that such a network is necessary and feasible a plan will be
developed for a complete rollout of the Model developed in Phase III in all Regional and District offices.
The rollout will include procurement of networking technology, implementation of the network and will
provide training in the operation and maintenance of the system.
Land Consolidation Sub-component
Background and Statement of the Problem. Land reform in Albania after 1990 has resulted in dramatic
changes in rural landscape. Before the reform 420 enterprise farmed about 18,000 fields averaging 36
hectares. After the reform 480,000 families farm about 1.8 million ha. with average farm size of 1.1 ha,
typically divided into 2-5 parcels. Also, the fields are rarely contiguous, usually widely scattered with
varying qualities and accessibility. About 5% of arable land is now used for paths and fences. One-way
distance to all of a farmer's parcels averages 4-5 km in Lushnja and 5-7 km in Vlora. In short, the farming
landscape is highly fragmented.
For farners, the fields which are far from their homes or which are not easily accessible tend to be used
less intensively and to be less subject to capital investments. Moreover, fragmentation makes it difficult for
farmers to obtain full benefits from capital investments made in agriculture as retums to farming
fragmented plots are low. It is also believed that recovering public investments in infrastructure, such as
rehabilitating the irrigation system, is made more difficult with the existing fragmentation of land.
Agricultural land markets, which should ultimately be the primary mechanism for land consolidation and
farm enlargement, are only beginning to function in Albania as legislation regulating land sales only came
into effect in 1998. Market imperfections, however, inhibit the incipient land markets from reducing
fragmentation in medium term. Imperfections stemming from poor information about land characteristics,
problems of coordination among multiple market actors and excessive transaction costs are preventing use
of land markets by rural residents to achieve better use of their land.
Given the nature of this problem, the Government has requested that a land consolidation pilot be included
in the Agricultural Services Project. While land transactions are beginning to occur, the scale remains
small, and many are occurring outside of formal channels (which weakens the property registration system
and ultimately the security of land rights). Considerable research, including the Social Assessment,
demonstrates interest and willingness to consolidate holdings in some fashion, and a strong perception that
land consolidation would be beneficial, but a lack of knowledge about options and specifics. Policy makers
as well, strongly support a proactive government policy toward land consolidation. Doubts about the cost
- 47 -



of land consolidation and the appropriate role of Government, however, remain. Without a pilot activity, it
will be difficult to address questions of the benefits and costs of efforts to encourage consolidation.
Outline of Project Activities. The pilot will attempt to: (i) respond to the perceived need for consolidation
activities by rural residents; (ii) overcome information constraints about land consolidation (iii) address
questions of costs and benefits; and (iv) create experience, techniques and procedures to guide a possible
national program, and to judge its potential usefulness.
The pilot will encourage land consolidation through facilitation of market transactions in land, with a focus
on parcel exchanges, rentals and purchase/sales. The pilot would facilitate transactions by: (i) sponsoring
participatory processes of negotiated exchange and rental; (ii) subsidies for costs involved in land market
transactions; (iii) public information and education about parcel grouping, formation of associations and
land market transactions; (iv) legal assistance; (v) a project monitoring and policy evaluation activity linked
to ongoing efforts by the FAO to evaluate land consolidation in Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary; and (vi)
a management function to administer the pilot program. The project will operate in four communes. These
are Fiershegan in Lushnja District, Frakull in Fier District, Suc in Mat District and Pojan in Korca
District. These communes have been selected because of their agricultural character, the interest in the
project by farmers, substantial completion of property privatization and registration, and the presence of
irrigation. The following table describes the main activities proposed under the pilot project as components
and supporting activities:
-48 -



Sub-                      Activity                          Project finances and manages
Component
Land            Gathering information on existing        Baseline survey of comuna agricultural
Market         landholding patterns in the commune and    production and landholding-land use pattern,
Trans-         transactions since privatization.        including GIS based parcel index map and soil
actions:        Public information about land          map.
transactions-rights, procedures, costs.   Additional operating costs of comuna
Encourage,      Provision of parcel index map and soil  agronomist, including project orientation;
facilitate and   maps for use in negotiating potential  communications and transportation
monitor land   transactions, with focus on arranging    (motorcycle).
market        parcel exchanges and identifying land      Incentive payments to agriculturist for
transactions    available to rent or purchase.          achieving baseline objectives and increasing for
leading to      Facilitation of transactions by         achievement of determined targets (grouping
more          agronomists and land consolidation and    arrangements established, number of
consolidated    farming advisor-information and         exchanges, rentals and sales made), up to
and efficient   negotiation assistance.                 maximum of 4 months additional salary.
landholding     Fee reductions for transactions which    Legal and mediation services for group
meet consolidation criteria through an   agreements and contracts.
MOU between the IPRS and the project      Monitoring survey of project costs and
and through the contracting of notaries by    benefits.
the project. If possible, exemption of    Map acquisition from IPRS (parcel index
transfer taxes for transactions which meet    map) and Land Research Institute (soil map)
consolidation criteria.                  and creation of GIS coverages of pilot comunas
Reduction of time and transportation     100 percent reduction in registration and
costs by using land consolidation and    notarial fees for exchange and rental
farming services advisor to take documents  transactions in the pilot comuna which fulfill
from farm to IPRS offices.               land consolidation criteria. (average contiguous
parcel size increased for at least one party,
combined distance to parcels reduced for all
parties)
Contract with notary for periodic exclusive
document processing on 2 days per month basis
Supporting      Project purpose and operation; brochures,    Design work carried out by Publicity Strategy
Service:       newspaper, radio, meetings at village,   in consultation with project technical
Public         comuna and district level                committee, and contracted staff.
Education       Information on how to conduct land       Material costs of printing and reproduction of
Materials      market transactions and results          written materials; production of a
and             Support services information            promotional-education video on land
Provision       Information materials about             consolidation.
intra-Comuna and Cross-comuna             Specialists transportation costs in comunas.
experiences                               Publicity village meetings about pilot project
* Information about experiences from      Radio announcements about pilot project
elsewhere in Albania
-49 -



Supporting      Legal professionals to assist contracts  Set of contracts with a NGO or association to
Service:      and land market transactions            provide the services on both an output basis,
Legal and       Legal professionals work with project,  and an 'as needed' basis. (6 days/month, i.e., 2
mediation     Ministry of Agriculture and IPRS to help  days per comuna per month). Suggested to be
assistance    describe/negotiate contents of a        with the Reconciliation Foundation.
government policy on land consolidation
Assistance in developing education
materials which are accurate and clear.
Supporting      Baseline Study in three pilot comunas   Basic survey of comuna landholding, parcel
Service:      and one neighboring "control" comuna.   use and value of output by comuna
Monitoring      Creation of pilot zone GIS            agriculturists
and policy      Ongoing monitoring, case studies of     Contracted creation of pilot zone land
evaluation    successes and processes                 consolidation GIS by merging digital map data
* Evaluation of agriculturist work     with parcel use data and infrastructure data .
Comparison with Hungarian, Bulgarian,   Meetings and site visits with land consolidation
Romanian experience through participation   projects in Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary,
in FAO study                            organized with FAO monitoring study. Use of
End of project impact study           site visits to refine and evaluate Albanian pilot.
Yearly evaluation by intemational expert    Impact evaluation and benefit-cost analysis
Preparation of synthesis report and policy
proposals for dealing with land fragmentation
Supporting      Relationship with WB, MOAF, IPRS        A full-time component manager in the PMU
Service:        Staffing and contract preparation       A clerical-financial assistant
Management      Financial management and control        Office equipment
and oversight    Benchmarking and workplanning          Transportation to the districts and comunas
* Procurement with PMU                   Communications and supplies
Reporting with PMU
The Land Market Transaction Activities will help farmers who would like to consolidate landholding
through the land market to do so. In the immediate post-privatization phase of land markets, transactions
are beginning to occur, but they are scarce, and hampered by inadequate information and expensive,
onerous transaction procedures. The sub-component will assist in overcoming these constraints by
providing information on parcel location, size, quality and availability, and by lowering transaction costs
and red-tape for farmers wishing to engage in transactions. Transactions to be facilitated include parcel
exchange, leasing, purchase/sale, donation and creation of easements.
Parcel Exchange. The exchange of parcels of land between landowners within a specified location may
have the advantage of consolidating farm holdings and promoting more efficient use of land. Due to the
homogeneity of soil type in some zones of the study districts, in theory land could be easily exchanged
without an elaborate system of compensation. This observation is especially true of parcels carved out of
the same cooperative field and belonging to the same extended family orfis. Informal discussions with
farmers and comuna agronomists also reflected that they fully understood the theoretical benefits to land
consolidation through parcel exchange. Unfortunately in practice most farmers are reluctant to exchange
parcels for the following reasons:
*   Both officials in the district IPRS offices and farmers indicate that a large and substantial constraint to
parcel exchange was the cost of the legal process of exchange. The main reasons cited for not
registering parcel exchange are the high transaction costs in terms of both money and time. According
- 50 -



to the Civil Code of Albania a land exchange is defined as a land transaction and thus requires the
same process for purposes of registration within the IPRS. This issue will be addressed by either a)
directly subsidizing the transaction costs through financial arrangements with municipal authorities, the
IPRS, notaries and topographers for transactions meeting project criteria, or b) by obtaining a
governmental decree which specifies that transactions leading to consolidation in specific areas during
the project will be exempted from transfer taxes registration fees.
* Another reason why farmers are hesitant to exchange parcels relates to the heterogeneity of soil quality.
Farmers are very reluctant to exchange unequal land parcels even if it were possible that a system of
compensation could be instituted. Research suggests that farmers would consider exchanging parcels if
the parcels were identical in size and quality. In the district of Lushnja the terms on exchange
essentially reduces to an equal size for equal size trade as the quality of land is very homogeneous.
However in northern areas of Albania the terms and possibilities for exchange would will be much
more complex. Facilitation by the agriculturist, provision of parcel index maps and soil maps to
classify parcels will help to solve the problems associated in creating exchanges. Compensations for
quality differentials will not be paid with project funds, but will be the responsibility of private parties
to manage. This point should be closely monitored to determine if liquidity constraints are preventing
exchanges. It should also be noted that transaction procedures are especially costly for exchanges,
requiring the parties to pay a private valuer, requiring that both parties register a transaction, and that
both parties pay a transfer tax.
Rental. Research indicates that many rural residents who intend to move to cities do not want to risk selling
their land but would be interested in renting it. Because rural to urban migration continues to be high, it is
expected that this supply of land for rental will continue to exist on a relatively widespread basis. The
potential lessors may be divided into two groups: those who intend to move to urban areas, and the
part-time farmers. Tenants (lessees) will be those farmers who see their future in the countryside. Renting
may be one of the viable methods for consolidating farm holdings, for enlarging farms to optimal size, and
therefore for decreasing land fragmentation. Rental of land is occurring on a widespread basis in the pilot
comunas, but is mostly short-term rental of one season or one year, and mostly between family or clan
members. In all the pilot comunas some land areas were defined as being uncultivated because the owner
had left for the city or left the country and had not rented or sold the land parcel. Facilitation of further
rental could therefore increase farmers' operational holding, and in some cases, consolidate contiguous
holdings. The sub-component includes a study of constraints to renting land.
Purchase/sale. This land transaction is becoming more common in Albania. The design team discovered a
modest number of purchase/sales transactions in the pilot comunas, and a small number of registered
transactions in each district. Nevertheless, purchase/sale transactions appear to be discouraged by the cost
of formal transfer, uncertainty about land values, and strong feelings in some areas about ancestral rights
to land. These considerations indicate that public information, transaction cost reductions and facilitation of
transactions could lead to beneficial purchase/sale transactions.
Easements. The creation of easements is another modality through which fragmented and non-contiguous
parcels may become linked through land market transactions. This is particularly true where current access
pathways are non-existent or too small to permit the entry of machinery. This option has not been
systematically studied and is very locally specific. It will be included in the options for achieving land
consolidation.
- 51 -



Approach to Facilitating Land Market Transactions.
Meetings and discussions of grouping, exchanges, rentals and other transactions; provision of
informational materials. The pilot will encourage land consolidation through operations of land markets
including exchange, granting of use rights, rental, purchase/sale and creation of easements. The project will
initially select one target village in the pilot comuna, declared a "pilot land consolidation zone" by the
district agriculture department and the comuna chairman. In the target village the approach will be for the
comuna agriculturist to discuss the issue of fragmentation, and solutions for overcoming it. In group
meetings and individually, the comuna agriculturist will make landholders aware of their legal rights to
engage in land market activities, explain to them procedures for transactions and provide farners with
informational material about existing consolidation opportunities and issues and opportunities for obtaining
services and marketing output for consolidated lands, and hold subsequent focused meetings with farmers
to discuss potentially beneficial transactions. These discussions will be aided by reference to the initial
survey data, the village's parcel index map (supplied to the agriculturist by the IPRS) and the soil map of
the area combined in a GIS-generated map, and by walking around the land parcels.
The option of temporary, provisional exchanges will be discussed. These provisional exchanges will be
based on an oral or written agreements and not registered in the IPRS, although a model contract will be
available for those who choose to utilize it. These exchanges will be facilitated through the use of parcel
index maps and GIS technology.
Incentives in the form of performance-based "over-time" salary payments will be made available to the
comuna agriculturists. The criteria for performance will be both based on fulfilling the workplan, and
achieving results targets in terms of consolidation. These targets will be established in the design phase of
the project based on assessment of potential scenarios for land consolidation in each comuna.
Fee Reduction. The pilot will attempt to overcome the cost constraint of using formal land market
procedures by providing a 90%-I 00% subsidy of transaction costs on purchase/sales, formal exchange,
lease and servitude transactions which meet project criteria for consolidation criteria (e.g. average
contiguous parcel sized increased by all parties, and or total distance from home to parcels reduced for all
parties). This would be managed most effectively with a governmental action which would exempt
transactions from transfer taxes. If such an exemption is not possible to achieve, however, the pilot project
will not be seriously disrupted. The transfer tax will be paid by the landholders themselves. There will be
an obvious incentive to understate the value of transfers to evade the tax. Furthermore, exchanges will be
unlikely (because they require both a privately contracted valuation of the property and payment of the
transfer tax). Exchanges would be expected to be replaced by sales.
Assuming that the transfer tax can be exempted, the subsidization of registration fees, stamp taxes and
notary fees and can be managed in two ways: a) by the project paying the registration fees and stamp taxes
on the transaction and contracting notaries and topographers as necessary for transactions which meet
consolidation; or b) by the government declaring exemption from all official fees and the project
contracting the notary and other staff. This cost reduction to clients is necessary to ensure that transactions
encouraged by the pilot project are registered, so that the land consolidation activity does not weaken
property rights or the IPRS system.
The project would declare a specific village to be a "consolidation zone" and offer the transaction cost
subsidy through explanation in meetings and distribution of a written description of exactly which
transactions would be covered by the subsidy. Essentially it is proposed that the subsidy cover exchanges
and long termn rentals, purchase/sales, donations and creation of easements. In each case the only
transactions which would be eligible for the subsidy would be those which meet one or more of the basic
- 52 -



land consolidation criteria such as: (1) that average size of contiguous parcels held by at least one party is
increased; and (2) that the overall distance from each party's residence to all parcels is decreased. A time
limit (two years is recommended) would be put on the availability of the subsidy, and a maximum number
of transactions which are eligible for the subsidy in each village defined and explained.
For the IPRS, the question of managing fee reductions is slightly more complicated, because the IPRS is
partially self-financing from its stamp tax revenues, and because it is in the midst of an exercise to justify
an autonomous status by demonstrating revenue generation. If government were to exempt registration fees
for consolidating transactions, then the state budget should compensate the IPRS for the fees foregone with
a increased state budget earmark. Because it is hard to estimate this budgetary compensation beforehand,
it is recommended that project funds be used to directly pay registration fees for clients.
Fee reduction would be handled as a monthly invoicing by the IPRS and contracted notaries to the project
for approved transactions, and a payment mechanism from the project to the IPRS. These mechanisms
would be spelled out in the MOU between the IPRS and the project. It is foreseen that transactions
managed through the project would be processed in the IPRS on a monthly basis by the comuna agronomist
and contracted assistance (notary and legal) acting on behalf of landholders. The method requires that the
IPRS be notified about which transactions are eligible for the subsidy by the IPRS, by means of a
pre-printed form signed by the comuna agriculturist accompanying the contract to be registered. This will
also require that (1) a Memorandum of Understanding be created with the IPRS to institute this procedure,
and (2) for the IPRS to keep a separate accounting of transactions handled through the project. The design
team also foresees that a part-time worker would be assigned to work in the registration office,
approximately 3 days per month, managing the paperwork on behalf of the projects' clients (at the
discretion of the client).
The goals of the pilot are best served by fully subsidizing transactions fees, thereby completely removing
transaction costs as a barrier to consolidation for interested clients. This belief reflects several
considerations: (i) Consolidation is seen as having significant long-term benefits, some of which will be
captured by society as a whole, which off-set the public subsidization of the transaction cost; (ii) the initial
fragmentation during privatization was carried out on the basis of a public interest in egalitarian
distribution, not on a basis of private benefit. To the extent that a policy intervention seeks to address the
inefficiencies with this distribution, a public obligation is implied; (iii) the subsidy is a one-off opportunity
which is expected to stimulate interest and decisions in the short-term and thus help to increase the pace
and intensity of land market transactions; and (iv) in a project which is essentially relying on facilitation
and exhortation, a high subsidy is one of the few incentives which the comuna agriculturists will have at
their disposal to arouse interest in transacting during the project.
Activities. The project activities to facilitate land transactions would be the following:
* Gathering of information on existing landholding patterns in the comuna and transactions since
privatization.
*   Public education/information about land transactions-rights, procedures, costs
*   Provision of parcel index map and soil maps for use in discussing potential transactions.
*   Facilitation of transactions by agronomists and land consolidation and farming services advisor-
informational and negotiation assistance to arrange temporary and permanent parcel exchanges, rentals
and purchase/sales.
- 53 -



*   Arrangements with notaries and topographs to travel to pilot comunas on a regular basis to facilitate
land transactions. This is expected to have a seasonal pattern as parcel transactions are negotiated
before spring and fall planting.
*   Legal and mediation assistance as needed.
* Fee reductions for transactions which meet consolidation criteria through a government decree or law
on exemptions and a MOU between IPRS and the project.
Public Education Supporting Activity. Provision of public information about the modalities and
procedures which will be used in land consolidation, successful local examples of consolidation, and the
specific offerings of the pilot project are needed for the pilot to communicate effectively with landholders. It
is foreseen that brochures and fact sheets, presentation materials for meetings, a short video presentation,
local newspaper articles and radio announcements will be prepared. Essentially the strategy for public
information is to proceed in two phases. In the first phase, basic information would be provided to farmers
about the project and about the modalities available for market-based land consolidation based on local
examples. In the second phase, information about experiences of land consolidation facilitated through the
project would be diffused.
Legal and Mediation Assistance Supporting Activity. It is foreseen that a certain amount of legal aid
and mediation assistance, in additional to that provided by notaries, may be needed on an occasional basis
in the course of the project. Formation of associations, complex land transactions, and contracting between
groups of farmers and traders may be some of the activities of which legal and mediation assistance is
needed. A legal aid NGO with experience in rural Albania will be sought to provide legal assistance. The
contracting private lawyers will also be considered.
Land Consolidation Monitoring Supporting Activity. A basic objectives of the land consolidation pilot
project is to evaluate the costs and benefits of policy intervention in this area. For that reason, it is
important that attention be paid to monitoring the changes which occur as a result of the pilot activity, and
that some economic and social valuation be made of those changes. To accomplish this impact monitoring,
an Albanian research organization will be contracted through the PMU's monitoring unit to carry out a
baseline survey in each of the pilot comunas and one neighboring, non-pilot comuna. The survey will
describe the landholding situation in the comuna and will sample farm management economics on a variety
of farms in target villages as well as social indicators. Data will be linked with parcel information and soil
data as coverages in a geographic information system (GIS).
During the pilot, monitors from the same organization will make periodic checks (every 3 to 6 months) to
assess progress against work plans and benchmarks and write, narrative and quantitative reports on project
activities stressing both achievements and problems in implementation. This periodic monitoring will
provide the basis for assessing the incentive payments which are to be offered to the project field staff.
In the final year of project implementation a follow-up, impact evaluation will be conducted, which will
re-survey the comuna farms. The follow-up survey will focus on the overall change in landholding patterns
and the impact of those changes. A re-survey in the neighboring comuna will serve the "control group" for
the monitoring activity. These results will be synthesized into an assessment of the pilot activity. This
assessment will be used to make recommendations for the type of government policies which should or
should not be implemented for dealing with the fragmentation issue in an economically and socially sound
manner.
- 54 -



This effort at understanding the impact of the pilot's approach to consolidation will be aided by the
involvement of the Albanian project in a regional effort by the land tenure Service of the FAO to assess
and compare approaches to land consolidation in Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. In addition to sharing
data, small groups from the Albanian pilot project may visit consolidation sites in these nearby countries.
Project Management Supporting Activity. The pilot will be managed by the PMU, with a pilot manager
and administrative assistant. The component manager will have primary responsibility for relationship
with World Bank and its procedures, with the Ministry of Agriculture and its district organizations, the
IPRS and for liaison with other project initiatives. Working integrally with the overall ASP project
management team, the manager and assistant will manage personnel relationships and payments,
procurement through the ASP project, financial control and reporting, and work planning. The manager
and assistant will be responsible for each of the subcontracted arrangements with supporting services such
as notaries, legal assistance, topographers, special assistance in the IPRS, public information providers and
monitoring/impact evaluation. Separately the component will receive technical coordination and direction
from a local expert in land consolidation.
Government Policy and Land Consolidation. The pilot will also include a policy study on land
consolidation which will be reviewed based on the results of the pilot project. The should take into account
the following issues: (i) official definition of land consolidation and definition of land consolidation areas;
(ii) fee exemptions for consolidation transactions, and removal of transfer tax and valuation for approved
consolidation transactions; (iii) arrangements with the IPRS for providing budgetary support for fees
foregone as a result of fee reductions; (iv) implementation of a land value tax which would stimulate
transactions on unused and under-used parcels. (v) provision of notarial services in a stream-lined format,
perhaps by attaching a government notary to the IPRS. This may imply the need for interpretation or
modification of the Law on Notaries; (vi) reduction in the amount of paperwork for land transactions; and
(vii) clarification of the laws on formation of associations.
From the standpoint of initiating the pilot project, it is crucial that a determination of governmental policy
on transfer taxes be made. At a minimum the requirement that transfer taxes (based on an expensive,
mandatory private valuation) be paid on exchanges and donations should be amended. This amendment can
be accomplished through instructions from the Ministry of Finance to the IPRS and would open the way for
stream-lined parcel exchanges. Based on discussions with IPRS lawyers and other legal professionals, it
appears that these changes of interpretation can be made by the Ministry of Finance. Preferably, a law
would be enacted which exempts all consolidation transactions from the transfer tax. If this is not possible,
however, in the short run-up to project implementation, it should be taken up as a project activity.
Realistically, it is neither possible or wise to expect a definition of government policy on land consolidation
beyond the transfer tax amendment in the pre-project phase. It is instead recommended, that the pilot
project assist in the definition of a government policy as part of the project operation. The pilot project
experience should provide sufficient detail and rationale to propose a policy and, if necessary, new
legislation to implement it. The national and international expert, in consultation with MOAF, IPRS and
the Ministry of Finance would be responsible for drafting the policy proposal, probably in the last year of
project implementation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.10 million
Market Development
This component of the project aims to: (i) facilitate the marketing of primary agricultural products; (ii)
improve the functioning and management of selected agricultural markets serving the rural population; and
- 55 -



(iii) strengthen the institutional capacity in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and local municipalities to
plan and oversee market activities successfully.
The project will focus initially on the rehabilitation and development of existing rural market infrastructure
where critical problems of limited capacity and deteriorated facilities exist. The project will concentrate on
the development of selected wholesale markets (Vlora, Lushnja in a first phase and Korca and Skhodra in a
second phase). These markets have been identified as markets with a broad range of trade currently
ongoing and locations close to major import and trading roads. In addition, the municipalities have
expressed their interest in the rehabilitation of these markets. In a later project stage, rehabilitation
activities will be expanded to other wholesale or assembly markets. In addition, the project will consider
contributing to the development of the Tirana wholesale market proposal (800,000 USD) provided
additional funding sources can be secured by government.
In addition to market rehabilitation and development activities, the project will support the training of the
municipalities and the market authority in the operation of the markets. These training activities will be
organized and conducted by the market specialist of the PMU with support of a wholesale market
practitioner. Limited resources will also be made available to allow specific studies on marketing issues and
bottlenecks in the marketing chain during project implementation. Decision on the respective studies will be
made by the PMU in collaboration with the competitive grant secretariat and will be guided by priorities
emerging on marketing issues. Beyond accompanying the rehabilitation activities in the municipalities, the
marketing specialist in the PMU will also actively engage in consulting on marketing problems and assist
grant proposals of the competitive grant scheme which will promote marketing activities.
The situation for the identified market is varying and each market will require a separate market design
which accommodates the special situation of the respective market and according to the function of the
market:
Lushnja has a thriving wholesale market operating from a parking area in the city center. The market is
primarily an assembly market for produce grown in nearby districts, which is then taken by wholesalers to
other cities. It also acts as a point where produce from other areas and imported fruit are sold to
wholesalers and retailers serving towns in the area. The area is far too small for the trade, and the city
center site is not appropriate for an assembly market. It is proposed to build a wholesale market costing
around US$ 465,000 on a greenfield site outside the city as part of the Agricultural Services Project.
Vlora has a cramped wholesale market handling mainly imported fruit and vegetables as well as local
potatoes, onions etc. Farmers are excluded from this market by the Council with the support of the
wholesalers, who feel that they are unfair competition. The farmers have developed an informal farmers'
market half a kilometer down the road on the roadside. The market is a terminal market serving the city. It
is considered most important that a farmers' market should be included in it. Costs are estimated at around
US$ 475,000.
Shkodra has a busy wholesale market operating on empty land. However this land is now claimed by
private owners, and they will have to move. One possible site is a factory which will cost approximately
$100,000 to rehabilitate.
Korca has a cramped, overcrowded market in the city center. However, relatively little of the market's
turnover goes to the city. Its main function is unloading imported fruit and vegetables and making smaller
consignments which are then sent to other areas. A second function is to act as an assembly market for
local produce, including potatoes, apples and onions, which are then sent to other areas. It is proposed to
- 56 -



build a new market on the outskirts of the city. It's costs are estimated at around US$ 611,000.
A case has been prepared by GTZ for a new market in Tirana. The ASP will potentially partially support
this market at a later stage (800,000 USD) if govemment assembles sufficient resources for the market
construction (the estimated costs of the Tirana wholesale market (3.5 million USD) go beyond available
project resources) and is able to solve land ownership issues.
Before actual development can start, the ownership situation of the proposed sites will have to be solved.
Partially, the municipal councils do not own any suitable land right now. In two cases, e.g. Viora, Lushnja,
the Council was able to obtain suitable land which is at present owned by Government. In the other two
cases potential solutions will continue to be discussed.
Market Operation. The municipalities will be responsible for the operation of the markets. The
management of the markets is simple, no more complex than that of the retail markets which are currently
managed by the municipalities. The most important reason to have the municipality in charge of the
operation of the market is that the markets will only work if the municipalities enforce the law prohibiting
trading anywhere else. They will do this only if there is a financial incentive for the municipality not to lose
money through weak enforcement of market regulations. All four municipalities seem to be committed to
improve the current market operation systems and will also be required to do so by an implementation
agreement which needs to be signed prior to the start of rehabilitation and construction works.
For a smooth operation of the market, it is important that the market authority is backed up and supervised
by the municipal council. Left to themselves, market management, whether private or public, tend to get
slack, to neglect rubbish collection, traffic control and even revenue collection. Occasional visits and
control by the municipality can be very important in this respect. It is also suggested not to give market
wholesalers a too strong a voice in the market management as experience form the existing markets show
that the market wholesalers in some cities try to exclude farmers from the market.
Ownership. The municipality will be the owner of the market. Thus, the council will also be responsible
for maintenance and operation of the market. The council will appoint a market authority which will be in
charge of the day to day operation of the market. The market authority should consist of a market director,
a financial/accounting specialist and two market inspectors. The market authority will be based in and
operate from the wholesale market site. The council will be held responsible for non compliance with their
responsibilities as spelled out in an implementation agreement between the PMU and the municipality. The
municipality is required to contribute to the establishment of the new market. It will be responsible for
providing the land, employ the market authority, maintenance of the market and supervision of the market
authority. In case of non compliance the municipality will be asked to pay back the construction costs of
the market.
Fees and their Collection. As already done in existing markets, market inspectors will be in charge of
collecting fees. The market authority will have to assure that (i) all traders are charged the fee and (ii) that
the fees are charged according to a publicly advertised price scheme. Final fees should be set by the
Municipal Council in cooperation with the PMU, once the construction costs have been finalized and an
estimation can be made on what fees are necessary to maintain the market. market fees should not differ
largely between the markets. The PMU needs also to ensure that the market fees are set not too high
resulting in the market in not being used. The market feasibility studies need to be taken into consideration
for an estimation of the number of traders potentially willing to use the new market plus their expressed
willingness to pay. It is envisaged to charge around 40 Leke per square meter (this amounts to around 500
Leke for a 5 ton truck). The Council must enforce existing regulations preventing sales by wholesale or
- 57 -



retail on the edges of the market. To avoid setting wrong incentives it is not suggested to apply subsidized
fees in the initial phase. An adjustment of fees should be made after the market has been successfully
operating for about a year and sufficient data is available to justify fee increases. In case that the new
market is not used by the traders, a committee consisting of representative of the municipality, the market
authority, and the expert of the project will be allowed to adjust the fees if it has been proven that the fee
amount represents a constraint to the usage of the market.
Traffic Control. Control of traffic is the major function of a market management. Without control buyers
and sellers will park wherever they want to and block the traffic. This function includes control of where
produce is left. Sellers frequently put their produce on walkways to draw the attention of passers by. This
blocks the walkways, and the result is that buyers use them less and less. Buyers and sellers often put their
produce in the roadways while they are loading and unloading. This can halve the available space. The
by-laws should permit clamping of vehicles, and seizing goods displayed outside the designated area.
Management must also ensure that the market is used for fruit and vegetable sales. If wholesalers use their
stands to store produce or boxes or pallets, blank areas develop in the market, areas where no selling takes
place. This means that areas of the market cease to be a market. In extreme cases it means that the market
itself ceases to function. Similarly, wholesalers must be prevented from selling soft drinks, canned foods or
non foods in the fruit and vegetable market.
Business Operation and Financial Management. The market authority will be required to maintain a simple
financial management system based on a standard format designed by the project's accountant, with the
support of the short term consultant. A special bank account will be opened by the municipality for the
revenues of the market. Accounting records will be available on request for supervision. The fees collected
will be recorded on a daily basis and the money will be transferred to the Bank account. The income
generated through the market can only be used for the operation and maintenance of the market in the initial
three years of operation. Maintenance works will need the prior approval of the municipal council. After
the successful operation of the market for three years, it will also be allowed to use the generated income
for enlargement of the wholesale market and for the upgrading and improvement of other market facilities
in the district subject to approval by the PMU.
Reporting Requirements. The market inspectors will record the number of traders, the size of the trucks,
products and origin and the amount of fees collected on a daily basis. The data will be entered in a simple
recording sheet by the market authority also on a daily basis. The data sheets will be set up by the PMU
and will be an integral part of the monitoring and evaluation system of the project. They will provide
valuable data for an evaluation of the market system and will allow further insights in the flow of goods in
Albania. However, they will also strengthen the capacity of the market authority and the municipal council
in using data for the decision making process. The market authority will be responsible to provide monthly
reports to the municipal council and the project specialist. This report will enclose the number of traders,
the quantities traded, the revenues eamed, the main products and their origin and the problems faced. It will
also provide an outlook on the next month operation and suggested necessary maintenance works.
The market specialist of the project will hold monthly, at a later stage bimonthly meetings with the market
authorities to discuss the summary reports provided, raise missing information, support the municipalities
in the operation of the markets, discuss constraints and plan the next months of operation. At this meeting
the responsible person from the municipality should also be present and further analysis with the data can
be prepared, i.e. the volume of flow for a specific product over time, the origin of products and price
variations over the months.
- 58 -



The market specialist of the PMU will prepare quarterly summary reports for the PMU and the Bank. In
addition, an annual business plan should be prepared for the markets by the specialist in cooperation with
the market authority, based on the data base established. this will be used to supervise the performance of
the markets, allow a better judgement on the viability of the market and allow the assessment of the
viability of additional investments.
Training in the Operation of a Wholesale Market. The identified personnel of the market authority will
receive training on the operation of a wholesale market by a specialist on the operation of wholesale
markets. A joint training session would inform about the general concept of operating a wholesale market
and about the system and reporting requirements under the project. A separate session will consist of work
with each of the market authorities on the market site. If additional markets are rehabilitated in the project
implementation period, the training for the operation of these additional markets will be conducted by the
marketing specialist of the PMU, based on the material prepared by the specialist for the earlier training
sessions and the training on the operation of the markets can be conducted by one of the markets which are
already operating.
Development of By-Laws. It is necessary to develop by-laws for the operation of the markets. The by-laws
should:
*   Authorize the market authority to set fees
*   Authorize the market authority to specify the opening times, to be negotiated with the traders (a market
like Korca's may trade 24 hours a day).
*   State at what times the whole market area is cleared from time to time for cleaning.
*   State that nobody may operate a wholesale business within a stated distance of the market, and provide
for enforcement.
*   Authorize the market authority and the police to clamp vehicles parked outside the permitted area.
*   Authorize the market authority to seize produce stacked outside the permitted area.
-   Permit the market authority to limit access by the general public.(This is not likely to be a problem
with the new markets in the near future.)
*   Permit the market authority to limit deliveries to certain hours, and purchases to other hours. (This is
not likely to be necessary with new markets in the near future.)
-   Limit the products which may be sold.
*   Limit the use of stands as storage for (a) horticultural products and (b) for other goods including
boxes, and pallets.
*   Permit the market authority to lease land for stores, banana ripening etc.
The by-laws should be developed by the municipality under the assistance of the PMU and a lawyer within
the next months. The by-laws will be part of the implementation agreement, but will have to be finalized
and approved by the PMU before the market will be able to operate (this will be a condition in the
implementation agreement). Once the feasibility studies are finalized and acceptable, the PMU should hire
a lawyer which, jointly with the market specialist, can support the finalization of the implementation
agreement and starts discussing the establishment of the by-laws with the municipalities.
Feasibility Studies. Feasibility studies for the selected market site have to be prepared by the
municipalities. In addition, the municipalities are required to submit a prove of the availability of the
assigned land parcel, detailed description of the proposed design and construction costs. The market
specialist of the PMU will be responsible to support the municipalities in preparing the studies.
- 59 -



Public Consultations. Part of the feasibility studies should be the requirement to hold public consultations
to allow for a broad participation in the decision process and take views of the people affected by the
decision into consideration. The municipalities will be required to hold three consultative meetings with
participation of traders, retailers and affected citizens: (i) before final approval of the proposed site, (ii)
upon decisions on final design and (iii) before start of construction of the site. The specialist of the PMU
should be present at these meetings and minutes of these meetings will need to prepared and filed with the
feasibility studies. Holding of these consultations will be a prerequisite for disbursement of fund for the
specific market site.
Final Market Design. The financial viability of the markets is very sensitive to the number of people using
the market in relation to the amount of concrete laid down. Once the ownership issues are solved, an
architect with experience of designing wholesale market facilities in other countries will help to prepare the
final market designs, which will make the optimum use of space are cost efficient and will present a
suitable design for the conditions in Albania. This can only be done once the feasibility studies are finalized
and the municipalities have presented their calculations of how many people will be using the market, what
facilities they need and what they are willing to pay for them it. The architect will also need to know how
marketing is carried out e.g. lorry wholesaling rather than commission trading. Once the rehabilitation is
initiated, the market authority and the relevant municipal officials will receive training in the operation and
accounting of the market. The architect will cooperate with an Albanian architect firm for the final design
of the markets. This will assure that the prevailing conditions in Albania will be taken into consideration in
the design. The resident architect will then also be able to supervise the work of the construction companies
during the construction of the markets. It is estimated that the input of the architects will take around two
weeks.
Market Studies and Marketing Facilitation
In addition to the rehabilitation of and assistance to wholesale markets, the market specialist of the PMU
should get involved in broader aspects related to agriculture markets and marketing in Albania. This would
involve the contracting of specific studies based on a clear identified need and demand from the ground.
This could be in particular specific studies on the market channels in certain crops. It could, however, also
involve contracting of the development of information brochures or handbooks related to training activities.
It is also expected that the marketing specialist of the PMU will improve the data base available on
marketing issues in Albania. A small library should be initiated on the issue and regular (three monthly)
meetings (roundtable) organized with other organizations involved in agriculture market issues to share
information and activities ongoing. This roundtable should also serve as a platform for support to the
government in questions related to market and marketing activities.
A third aspect of the market related activities will be the marketing facilitation for specific products. This
should preferentially include the support of marketing proposals under the community-based rural
productivity and marketing improvement component. The idea is to help the producers to find a market for
their products and try to facilitate the negotiation process. It also involves the search and provision of
specific information needed by a producer or producer group.
Project Component 4 - US$2.50 million
Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
Under this component of the project the aim is to: (i) accelerate the transfer of improved technology to
farmers/producers in rural communities; (ii) build capacity of rural service providers to support
- 60 -



farmers/producers and other rural entrepreneurs; (iii) assist associations and other community groups to
take advantage of economic opportunities; (iv) help MAF establish more public-private linkages for
reaching farmers and agri-businesses.
A Competitive Grants Program (CGP) will be established which will award small grants ranging from
USD 1,000 to a maximum of USD 15,000 for technology transfer and demonstration activities. Grants will
be made available to: (a) existing community-based groups such as farmer/producer and agro-processing
associations; (b) farner interest groups (FIGs) associated with Water User Associations and Savings and
Credit Associations; (c) FIGs formed for extension delivery purposes by the public extension service and
other programs; and (d) local NGOs in association with community-based groups.
Grants will cover a wide range of possible technologies in crop and livestock production, processing and
marketing. The CGP will be extended over the whole country during the course of the project, but will
initially focus in the first year on some of the main agricultural districts in order to test and streamline the
operational procedures.
For each activity, it is expected that a proportion of the total costs will be provided by the participants
either financially or in-kind. This cost-sharing will be required to cover at least 25% of the total cost of the
proposal. For capital items that stayed with the participants after the end of the demonstration the
participants will be expected to contribute the 25% as a cash contribution. For other items, proposals will
include an indication that the costs will be provided by the participants as an in-kind or as a labor
contribution. It is anticipated that about 150 small grants averaging USD 10,000 will be provided over the
six years of the ASP.
Proposals will be developed by the community groups and associations assisted where necessary on their
request, with technical assistance made available through the ASP or by other projects or NGOs. Proposals
will include the costs for establishing the demonstration or market study including necessary equipment,
materials and infrastructure; technical support during implementation; an estimate of potential benefits; and
a plan for transferring the technology to be demonstrated. The technical support during implementation and
the responsibility for technology transfer activities will be provided by private extension providers, the
public extension service, NGOs or through other projects in partnership with the community groups.
A small secretariat will be established in the PMU to co-ordinate and manage the component, with a local
consultancy contracted to provide training and facilitate arrangements between the applicants and the wide
range of technical expertise that will be required to assist the beneficiaries during proposal preparation,
supervision and evaluation. The technical expertise will primarily be drawn from locally available
specialists, although a limited amount of funds will be made available to contract overseas specialists if
specific expertise was not present within Albania. Following initial screening by the secretariat, proposals
will be evaluated by specialist peer reviewers and then by an independent Competitive Grants Committee
(CGC). The membership of the committee will include specialists from the MAF, farmer/producer and
other associations, NGOs and other projects and programs to ensure that different interests, experiences
and perspectives were represented. The winning proposals will be selected by the CGC and
recommendations passed on to Project Implementation Unit Director for signature and endorsement. Details
of the implementation process of the component are spelled out in an Operational Manual.
Priority activities of the component will consist of appropriate and affordable technologies designed to
increase rural productivity, add value and increase market-acceptability of agricultural products in line
with the MAF national strategy. Topics of demonstrations and technology transfer activities could include a
wide range of potential technologies that fall into the following broad categories: (i) improved livestock
- 61 -



husbandry including nutrition, health, breed improvement and animal housing; animal nutrition topics could
include pasture management, forage production and feeding trials; (ii) improved annual and perennial crop
production including improved seed and seedling production, on-farm water management, greenhouse
vegetable production, improved cropping technology, and small-scale mechanization; and (iii) storage,
processing and marketing of agricultural products. Examples of possible pilot proposals describing the
technology to be demonstrated, costs of the proposal including possible cost-sharing arrangements,
methodology of transferring the technology, and potential benefits are given in Annex 5.
Eligible Applicants. Grants would be made available to: (a) existing community-based groups such as
farmer/producer, marketing and agri-processing associations; (b) farmer interest groups (FIGs) associated
with Water User Associations, Savings and Credit Associations, and other formal associations; (c) FIGs
formed for extension delivery purposes by the public extension service and other programs; and (d) local
NGOs in association with community-based groups. The CGP would not support the creation of additional
groups and associations since many already exist in the rural areas and a number of other projects and
programs have supported and are currently supporting these developments.
Service Providers. The community-based groups and associations would introduce and test improved
technologies, and would form a partnership with one or more service providers who would be responsible
for the demonstration and dissemination of the technology and for the provision of technical support during
proposal preparation and implementation. The service providers could include a range of organizations in
the country including:
* private extension providers such as the two private Regional Agricultural and Agri-business Centers
(RAACs) based in Fier and Durres Districts that are being established under the Dutch-funded
National Extension Project;
* other private sector extension services such as extension groups being developed by the
farmer/producer associations including the Potato Producers Association;
* the MAF public extension service located in each district, which receives technical support and some
budgetary support from the Dutch-funded National Extension Project;
* research organizations and experimental stations;
*   intemational projects and programs such as the FAO-supported Special Program for Food Security
(SPFS), Land O'Lakes Dairy Development Project, the GTZ-supported project that provides technical
assistance for local associations in Lushnje, and the USAID -financed IFDC-supported AAATA
project;
* local NGOs such as the Foundation for Development in Stock-Breeding.
Priority Topics. The goal of the component is to support a system that would be responsive to beneficiary
requests based on their analysis of the constraints and possible solutions rather than a pre-selected list of
topics. Accordingly, the CGP would provide grants for wide range of possible technologies in crop and
livestock production, processing and marketing. However, priority would be given to those proposals that
consisted of appropriate and affordable technologies designed to increase rural productivity, add value, and
increase market-acceptability of agricultural products in line with national strategy. Priorities would be
reviewed and revised periodically by the CGC to reflect changes in government policy and developments in
domestic and intemational agriculture. Topics of demonstrations and technology transfer activities could
include a wide range of potential technologies that fall into the following broad categories:
*      improved livestock husbandry: involving animal health, breed improvement, housing and
nutrition including pasture management, forage production and feeding trials; fisheries and bee-keeping
topics would also be included in this category;
- 62 -



*      improved annual and perennial crop production primarily for vegetable, fruit, cereal and forage
crops, including improved seed and seedling production, on-farm water management, greenhouse vegetable
production, and improved crop technology such as small-scale mechanization, cropping pattems, crop
rotations, crop diversification and spreading the production period;
*      storage, processing and marketing of agricultural products: including on-farm collection points;
improved processing and marketing of agricultural products such as milk and olives to add value; test
marketing of new product packaging and studies of market openings accompanied by a concrete action
plan; and promoting organic products.
Project Districts. The CGP would be extended over the whole country during the course of the project, but
would initially focus in the first year on a limited number of pilot districts in order to test and streamline the
operational procedures. Eight districts have been selected for participation in the first year's program; Fier,
Lushnje, Kavaje, Elbasan, Korce, Durres, Vlore and Shkodra. These districts have been selected since: a)
they are relatively accessible and considerable monitoring and supervision will be required from the CGP
Secretariat; b) there are a large number of possible market-oriented farmer groups and associations; c)
there is good potential for building on the work of previous and existing projects and programs; and (d)
possible pilot proposals have been identified. In addition, market development activities are foreseen under
the ASP for four of these districts (Korca, Lushnje, Vlore and Shkodra). From the second year of the
project, community-based organizations in all districts would be eligible to apply. In each district, the CGP
would liaise with other projects and programs to avoid duplication and to co-ordinate and collaborate where
feasible. In particular, the CGP would liaise with the IFAD-supported Mountain Areas Development
Agency (MADA) in the mountain districts.
Management of Component
Competitive Grants Program (CGP) Secretariat. A small Secretariat would be established within the ASP
Project Management Unit (PMU) to carry out the day-to day operations and to co-ordinate all activities
associated with the CGP. The Secretariat would consist of a CGP specialist supported by an assistant.
Financial management, accounting and procurement services would be provided by the administrative staff
of the PMU as a whole. The CGP specialist would administratively report to the PMU Director, and to a
semi-autonomous Competitive Grants Commission (CGC) on technical matters. Terms of Reference for the
staff of the CGP Secretariat and the CGC are provided in the Operational Manual.
The CGP Secretariat would: a) promote and publicize the CGP to all potential participants through
workshops and media announcements; b) conduct initial screening of proposals to determine if basic
criteria are met for inclusion in the CGP; c) submit the completed proposals to technical reviewers for
evaluation based on criteria and scoring procedures described in the Operations Manual; d) submit the
reviewed proposals to the CGC, arrange meeting schedule and act as secretary; e) submit winning
proposals selected by the CGC to the PMU Director for endorsement and signature; (f) prepare documents
for agreement between the grant recipient and CGP, and inform the recipient of the administrative,
monitoring and financial requirements; (g) provide overall supervision of the technical support during
proposal implementation and ensure that satisfactory monitoring is being carried out; (h) supervise final
evaluation of results and impact of each activity, and ensure that a final report is submitted. Other general
duties would include liaison with other agencies, projects and programs to keep them informed of activities;
preparation of annual work plans and progress reports of the CGP; planning a training program for CGC
members and Secretariat staff; preparation and maintenance of a list of suitable technical reviewers; and
maintenance of a database of each technology demonstrated to share with other agencies, projects and
programs.
- 63 -



Competitive Grants Commission (CGC). The CGC would have overall responsibility for technical policy
of the CGP, and would review, evaluate and select the successful grant proposals for funding by the CGP.
The recommendations of the CGC would be passed on to the PMU Director for endorsement and signature
Reasons for non-endorsement by the PMU Director would be if procedures were found not to have been
fully respected, or if there were insufficient funds available to finance the program recommended by the
CGC. The CGC recommendations would be based on their own assessment and on the scored proposals
submitted by two technical reviewers. The CGC would consist of nine members. To involve all actors in
the process and ensure that a full spectrum of experience, interest and perspectives is included, two
members would be from the Ministry of Agriculture, one from the Ministry of Finance, one from the
Agricultural university system and one from the Agricultural research system. Two members would
represent farmer and producer associations, one member would be drawn from other agricultural
development projects, and one would be from an NGO also operating in agricultural development activities.
To maintain the independence of the CGC, the Chairman would be selected from the private sector
members of the committee. The CGP Specialist would act as secretary of the CGC. Further details of the
procedures are described in the Operations Manual.
Contracted Agency. The responsibilities of the CGP Secretariat include the provision of training in
proposal preparation; organization of the technical review process; project monitoring and supervision; and
evaluation of results and impact of each activity. These responsibilities would require a wide range of
technical expertise that would not be possible to include directly within the CGP secretariat. Accordingly,
the ASP would contract a local consultancy (NGO or other agency) There are a number of suitable
candidates, who would be required to submit a tender to provide the required services. A possible example
is the Center for Rural Studies, an NGO established in 1998 comprising some 14 specialists in various
agricultural fields plus a number of associate specialists drawn from the Agricultural University and the
Research Institutes to organize and co-ordinate the technical inputs drawing from a variety of sources. The
contracted agency would derive the technical expertise from a wide range of possible sources including the
Agricultural Research Institutes, Agricultural University of Tirana and Agriculture Faculty of Korca,
public and private extension services, independent specialists and other technical experts, NGOs and other
projects and programs, and overseas specialists where suitable expertise can not be found in Albania.
Technical Reviewers. Following receipt of grant proposals, the CGP Specialist would send the proposals to
two selected technical reviewers for detailed review and technical evaluation based on the established
criteria and scoring procedures described in the Operations Manual. The CGP Specialist, with the
assistance of the contracted agency, would prepare a list of potential reviewers drawn from technical
experts within Albania including the Universities, Research Institutes and other projects and programs.
This list would then be approved by the CGC and maintained and regularly updated by the CGP
Secretariat. Care would be taken to ensure that the selected reviewers were independent from the providers
of technical support during proposal preparation and implementation.
Training Program. In order to enhance the capacity of the CGP secretariat and the CGC, a training
program is foreseen. Proposed training activities for the CGP Specialist would include a short course in
program operations and management and study visits to similar Competitive Grants Programs in
neighboring countries such as Macedonia, Romania and Croatia. The CGP Specialist would be
accompanied by members of the CGC on these study visits. In addition, an information workshop would be
held for CGC members, technical reviewers and the contracted agency in the objectives, methodology, and
review and evaluation procedures using the Operations Manual.
- 64 -



Publicity Campaign. An important responsibility of the CGP Secretariat is to promote and publicize the
CGP to all potential participants including farmer and producer associations, farner interest groups,
WUAs and credit organizations, as well as private extension providers, public extension service, NGOs and
other appropriate projects and programs. Through workshops and media announcements, potential
participants would be informed of the objectives, methodology and application requirements of the CGP.
The CGP would seek to reach as wide an audience as possible to allow all actors to participate in the
program and not to exclude groups with less access to information and resources. Specifically, the methods
to be used are:
*   an annual workshop at the national level to inform and discuss the objectives, methodology, priorities,
application requirements and activities of the CGP with other agencies (government and NGOs);
service providers including the MAF extension service; donors and other projects and programs; credit
organizations, and national associations;
*   media announcements including radio and TV spots, newspaper, circulars and newsletters; and
*   one-day district-level workshops to inform and discuss with district-level farmer groups and
associations, service providers and local projects and programs.
It would not be possible to hold a district-level workshop in each of the 36 districts each year without
substantially increasing the resources available to the CGP Secretariat. Accordingly, workshops would be
phased over the project period with a total of 46 planned by the end of the project. In the first year, six
district-level workshops are planned, with an average of 10 workshops in following years. Neighboring
districts would hold joint workshops where feasible, with the goal of holding one workshop in every district
by the end of project year four.
Procedures for Proposals. The CGP Secretariat would invite proposals twice a year. Announcements would
be made in the media and through circulars to all potential applicants, as well as at the annual national level
workshop and district-level workshops. The announcements would include information on: (a) the objective
of the request for proposals; (b) technologies for which proposals are solicited; (c) the necessary
qualification of participants; (d) project duration (maximum 2 years); (e) grant size (from USD 1,000 to a
maximum of USD 15,000); (f) requirement for applicants to contribute a minimum of 25% of the total
project cost in cash and/or kind; (g) categories of costs for which grant resources may be used; (h)
categories of expenses to be covered by the applicant; (i) deadline for submission of the application; and (j)
rules of submission and information regarding the project selection procedures and other necessary
information.
Initial expression of interest forms would be distributed at the workshops and following direct contact with
potential applicants. This form would provide the following information: (a) title of the project; (b) the
priority topic to which the proposed project relates; (c) name of community-based group or association and
service provider sought or identified to participate in the project; (d) signed notification from the
participating institutions that they consider implementation of the project to be important and that they are
ready to work together; (e) short description of the association and service provider; (f) short description of
the project; (g) expected results and their importance. These preliminary proposals would be screened for
eligibility by the CGP Secretariat. Associations that need help to locate suitable service providers would be
assisted by the Secretariat with the help of the contracted agency.
A training session in program objectives and methodology and in proposal preparation would then be held
for all eligible applicants by the contracted agency, and forms for full proposal distributed to all potential
applicants. A proportion of the costs would be required to be provided by the participants. This
cost-sharing would be required to cover at least 25% of the total cost of the proposal. For capital items that
- 65 -



stayed with the participants after the end of the demonstration, i.e. a small greenhouse, sprinkler irrigation
equipment, improved breeding stock, agricultural machinery or processing equipment, the participants
would be expected to contribute the 25% as a cash contribution. For other items, proposals would include
an indication that the costs would be provided by the participants as an in-kind or as a labor contribution.
Although not a requirement, other cost-sharing and co-financing proposals from the service provider, which
could include NGOs and other projects and programs, would be considered favorably by the Competitive
Grants Commission.
Review Process. Following submission of the proposal, the proposals would be sent to two technical
reviewers for evaluation and on to the CGC for selection of winning proposals as described above. Further
details on the procedures are given in the Operations Manual.
Grant Agreement. A formal contract would be signed between the PMUJ and the grant recipients, which
would set out the responsibilities, reporting requirements and monitoring indicators as well as the
provisions for the demonstration element of the project and the use of equipment beyond the initial
beneficiary group. Environmental mitigation plans would also be included where necessary. A draft
contract setting out the obligations of the grant recipient and penalties for non-compliance is included in the
Operational Manual.
If the grant recipient is a registered association, the grants would be disbursed to a bank account or
sub-account held by the community-based organization specifically designated for the project. The grant
would be disbursed in suitable tranches, as determnined by the CGP Secretariat in agreement with the grant
recipient, which would depend on the expenditure requirements. Some of the funds would then be passed to
the providers of technical support and extension services as specified in the grant agreement. If the grant
were awarded to a farmer group that was not a formally registered association, the grant would be
disbursed to a bank account held by the service provider or other eligible organization rather than to a
private individual.
Reporting Requirements. The successful grant applicants would be required to (i) maintain a simple
accounting system based on a standard format designed by the project's accountant - with the support of the
short-term consultant and (ii) provide technical and financial progress reports every six months from the
signing date of the Grant Agreement signature. The reports would include a detailed work plan for the next
period. The CGP Secretariat technical staff would review all reports and submit along with a summary of
findings to the CGC for acceptance of the reports or direction on corrective action to be taken if necessary.
A completion report, which covers the entire life of each individual project, would be required to be
submitted within one month after completion of the project. This report would encompass the last progress
report, and would link all findings from the project so that overall achievements and impact of the entire
project can be assessed. Project achievements should be discussed in terms of scientific or extension
accomplishments, contribution to human resource development, the relevance of the findings to
development, and the means of dissemination of the resulting information/technology. The detailed
reporting guidelines are given in Annex 9 of the Operational Manual.
The annual workshops would also be used to enable the grant recipients to report on their work. The
workshops would include CGC members, selected technical reviewers, and participants from the research
and extension community, as well as representatives of other donors, projects and programs. Special
meetings could also be arranged linked with a field day for beneficiaries.
- 66 -



Project Component 5 - US$1.33 million
Project Management
Implementation of the above activities will be overseen by a project management unit. Considering the
various agencies involved in each of the components, this provides a considerable challenge. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) will (a) ensure an efficient implementation of the activities proposed under the
Agriculture Services Project and (b) provide MAF with the implementation capacity which would allow it
to expand this project with activities supported by other donors in the future such as in the field of livestock
development and technology transfer. It is intended that the project preparation unit, which is actively
involved in the project preparation, will take over the responsibility as the project management unit. The
project team currently consist of a director, financial management and procurement specialists (who will be
jointly working for the ASP and the fishery project). The team will be strengthened through local specialists
in the components and the competitive grant secretariat.
- 67 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
1. Seed Market Development                                        0.32           0.88            1.20
2. Land Market Development                                        0.90            1.24           2.14
3. Market Development                                             2.66            1.05           3.71
4. Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing               1.28            1.14           2.42
Improvement
5. Project Management                                             0.80           0.34            1.14
6. Project Preparation Facility                                   0.39           0.16            0.55
Total Baseline Cost                                               6.35           4.81           11.16
Physical Contingencies                                           0.27           0.23            0.50
Price Contingencies                                              0.35           0.19            0.54
Total Project Costs                   6.97           5.23          12.20
Total Financing Required                    6.97           5.23          12.20
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 12.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 81.17% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 68 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Seed Market Development
Development of the seed market is expected to reap direct benefits steming from two elements, higher
productivity through higher yields and lower seed density and better access to markets through better
adaptation to consumer and processor demands. Additional benefits will arise from training and
investments in germplasm conservation and improvements in the existing seed research institutes. This are
expected to increase the efficiency of research conducted and make it more adapted to market demands.
The continuous effort to conserve germplasms has a benefit to the society which is not quantifiable, but
gains its importance through the large number of unique varieties existing in Albania.
The economic assessment will only consider the direct benefits to the farmer through the use of improved
varieties and yields. The larger availability of hybrid seeds, of seeds with higher germination rates will
increase yields per hectare and save costs through lower seeding rates. However, yield increases are also a
function of the availability of other inputs. It is assumed that seeding rates gradually decrease by 10% over
the project implementation period. Yields are expected to increase by around 5-15 % depending on the
crops. Further information on the benefits will be gathered in Albania and the analysis will be adapted
accordingly. For the calculation, it is assumed that 7,000 ha will reap benefits from improved seed varieties
and reduced seed densities. This is regarded as a conservative estimation, considering that around 700,000
ha in Albania are arable land. In the absence of detailed crop budgets, an average benefit of 7 USD per
hectare is assumed for yield increases and an average of 5 USD for savings of seeds. Taking wheat as a
proxy, current average wheat yields (3 tons/ha) and an average price of USD 110 per ton of wheat sum up
to an average of 7 USD per hectare through a gradual yield increase (2% per annum) over the project
implementation period.
Better access to markets represents a large benefit to the producer. This particularly applies to vegetables
and potatoes. Processors and exporters who currently do not find the right variety in the country will be
able to promote the types of produce they are able to sell. In addition, the large share of imported products
in the Albanian market increases the need for Albanian producers to compete with products from other
countries if they wish to sell on the Albanian market. Benefits related to this argument are difficult to
quantify and are assumed to equal on average 5 USD per hectare. It is further assumed that 120,000
farmers will benefit from a free choice of seeds over the project implementation period.
Land Market Development
Land registration
Land titling and land registration is expected to provide direct, but usually difficult quantifiable, benefits
steming from two elements, registration of land titles and the creation of functioning land markets. They
also include improved tenure security, the possibility to trade land at market prices, enhanced ability to use
land as a collateral and reduce land related disputes. In the Albanian context, the facilitation of land
consolidations is another important benefit allowing farmers to consolidate their dispersed plots.
Experiences from other countries also show that land registration can significantly increase the market
- 69 -



value of a given property. For instance, in Thailand the appreciation of title property ranged from 75 to
192%. Secure land tenures promote investrnents in land and on the land as well as is regarded as increasing
productivity and sustainability.
The creation of a functioning land market system will contribute to a more efficient resource allocation as
land transactions permit the shift of land ownership to those achieving high productivity and returns from
the land. Through this, the land markets also play an active role in the structural adaptation of the rural
economy over time.
The systems to be put in place are expected to increase the efficiency of the land registration process and
reduce the time and costs per transaction. The simplification of the registration process will also invite for
an increased use of the registration process. An improved registration system and its integration into
graphical index maps will also serve the government cadastral information for planning and regulatory
purposes. It is expected that the registration system which currently works for around 1 mill. parcels will
increase to approximately three million parcels. The project aims to partially quantify benefits during
project implementation on the basis of studies and the project's M&E system. This especially applies to the
pilots in land consolidation.
Land consolidation
Without a pilot activity, it is difficult to make an informed judgment questions of the costs and benefits of
intervening in the land market to encourage consolidation. Illustrative cost-benefit calculations for areas
planted in wheat on consolidated parcels suggests a net present value of about USD 97,000 in cost savings
and an approximately USD 91,200 in additional net returns to production on land used by fences and paths
per 1,000 ha of wheat production, a plausible area for consolidation directly under the pilot activities.
This calculation, is only an indicator of the value of cost reductions in one major crop, and ignores the
benefits which would accrue from cost savings in other crops' cost, efficiencies in water use which reduce
cost and increase yields, time reductions in travel to and among parcels, capital improvements to
landholdings which improve yields, adoption of alternative crops based on the ability to produce on larger
scales, or the inclusion of underutilized parcels into more intensive production. More importantly, it does
not attribute a value to the demonstration effect which is expected to be the main mode of transmission of
the project's benefits. Replication of these cost reductions and increased returns through additional land
utilization to an additional 3,500 ha of wheat or crops with similar cost characteristics, for example, would
bring the net present value of only the benefits included in this illustrative calculation to USD 844,650
Given that the four districts in which the pilot would operate contain 145,000 ha of arable land, this is a
plausible parameter for replication through demonstration effects, and potentially orders of magnitude too
low if a medium-term horizon is adopted for the transmission of benefits.
Wheat Production Estimate per one hectare - fragmented and consolidated
a)     Fragmented parcels with many farmers and crops
Material Expenditures   Seeds         260 kg x 60 lek          = 15,600 lek
Pesticide       0.3 kg x 1500 lek       =  450 lek
Dap (fert.)     2 kv x 56 lek           = 11,200 lek
Urea            lkvx 351ek              =  3,500 lek
Nitrate         1kv x 24 lek            =  -2400 lek
31,150 lek
- 70 -



Mechanization         Ploughing      Iha x 13000 lek       = 13,000 lek
Discing       Iha x 8000 lek        = 8,000 lek
Planting      Iha x 6000 lek        = 6,000 lek
Harvesting    Iha x 10000 lek       = 10,000 lek
37,000 lek
Labor                                102x  500 lek         = 51,000 lek
Total Expenditures           = 121,150 lek
Production                   = 35 kv
Cost                         = 34.6 lek/kg or
3,460 leklkv
b)      Estimate costs for consolidated block of parcels cultivated with wheat /ha
Material Expenditures   Seeds       260 kg x 60 lek        = 15,600 lek
Pesticide     0.3 kg x 1500 lek         =  450 lek
Dap (fert.)     2 kv x 56 lek        = 11,200 lek
Urea            lkv x 35 lek        =  3,500 lek
Nitrate         1kv x 24 lek         =  2A400lek
31,150 lek
Mechanization         Ploughing      Iha x 8000 lek        = 8,000 lek
Discing        Iha x 5000 lek       = 5,000 lek
Planting      Iha x 4000 lek         = 4,000 lek
Harvesting    Iha x 8000 lek        = 8000 lek
25,000 lek
Labor                               60 x  500 lek          = 30,000 lek
Total Expenditures           = 861150 lek
Production                   = 35 kv
Cost                         = 24.6 leklkg or 2,460 lekfkv
*   The difference of costs in fragmented (a) versus consolidated production (b) equals 1,000 lek/kv or
USD 6.756.
*   Based on 250 ha consolidated per pilot municipality, the benefit (cost reduction) of land consolidation
amounts to USD 6,756 (for 1,000 ha).
*   An additional net return is gained as it is assumed that 5% additional land can be cultivated on
consolidated parcels. With an estimated wheat price of 3,000 lek/kv, the net return per hectare
amounts to 18,900 lek (USD 127.7/ha). Five percent increase of land area, thus yields returns on 50
additional ha, resulting in benefits of USD 6,385.
*   The benefits of the improved land registration system are considered in the calculation to the extent that
they increase market transfers and that these transfers imply benefits. Additional benefits, discussed
above, have not been considered. In the absence of reliable data, as assumption is made that land
market transaction would increase by 100,000 per year at have an average net benefit of 5 USD.
- 71 -



Market Development
To calculate benefits of the rehabilitation of the markets in detail, more information on the user frequency,
the number of farmers accessing the market and the average revenues for small, medium and large
participants of the markets. In the absence of a complete feasibility study of the markets, several
assumptions have been made. A medium case scenario has been chosen for the use frequency of the
markets. Costs associated to the markets are operating costs and construction costs. Operating costs
comprise of the costs of the market management (salaries) and utilities (water, sewage, garbage disposal,
electricity, telephone). Construction costs are the costs associated to the design, construction and set-up of
the market. Land purchases are not included in the costs. The benefits are calculated for a ten year period.
Due to the high initial construction costs of the markets, benefits would significantly increase over a longer
calculation/use period.
Assumptions:
*   The land being used for the new wholesale market is less valuable than the land now being used, or at
least, no more valuable.
*   The rehabilitated markets will, at least, be no less efficient as a market.
*   The new wholesale market will, at worst, be no worse than existing markets in terms of waste and post
harvest losses.
*   The fees charged are assumed to be in line with fees currently charged in various markets in Albania.
*   The construction and set-up of market facilities will be conducted in the first year. From the second
year, the market is operating fully and as an equal number of traders frequenting the market.
*   The financial viability of the markets is very sensitive to the number of people using the market. A
medium usage frequency is assumed expressed in the number of farmers, small and large vehicles
entering the market. The calculations presented are based on individual calculations for each market
base on their respective data.
* The revenues of the market are based on rent earnings of stalls and lock-ups and entry fees for the
market.
*   Improved access to markets is generally assumed to allow around 1,000 farmers for each market to
increase their profits by 10 percent. Assuming a total annual income of marketable products of 300
USD, the rehabilitated market will support the income of farmers by 30 USD.
Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
Although it is difficult to estimate the results of the demonstrations since the types of proposals are not
known, some assumptions can be made from the example proposals presented in Annex 5. For example,
improved seedling and sapling quality will lead to a consistent improvement of both crop and tree yields
and farm incomes; the introduction of grafted watermelon and grafted eggplant seedlings is expected to
result in yield increases in the order of 15 to 20% and net returns of about 10 to 15%. The introduction of
drip irrigation in potato crop production will lead to an increase in potato yield of 5 to 8 t/ha in the first
cropping season and 8 to 12 t/ha in the second cropping season. Improved animal feeding (such as use of
- 72 -



concentrate and soybean-based feeds) will be expected to increase milk production by about 15% in the
participating farns. The improved prophylactic animal health care demonstration, already carried out in
some areas of the country, has been shown to increase the number of farmers treating their animals 20% to
60% following the program, with milk production increasing by 100 to 180 liters/head in cows and by 12
to 18 liters/head in small ruminants.
Activities in agricultural product processing and marketing may also result in increased incomes. For
example, in rural areas where agriculture is oriented mainly towards livestock production, the improved
milk processing and marketing demonstration is estimated to increase milk processing capacity from 2,000
to about 3,000 liters/day and the average sale price of dairy products from about Lek 38 to Lek 44 per liter
of milk.
An estimate of the costs and annual net benefits of the six proposals are given in the Table below. The
costs include all equipment costs, including equipment that could be used for several years. The annual
benefits only reflect the direct benefits and do not include the indirect benefits that will follow from the
diffusion and transfer of the technologies. It should also be noted that each proposal submitted will require
detailed estimates of the direct and indirect benefits including crop and livestock budgets and cash flows
where necessary.
Estimated costs and benefits from example proposals
Activity Costs (USD) a/            Annual Net Benefits (USD)
CGP      Beneficiary    Total      Before       After    Incremental
Example Proposal                                                    Project     Project
Production of anti-phylloxera    6,755      10,348      17,013           0        2,517       2,517
grape saplings
Improved animal health care b/  12,440      10,560      23,000     272,552      303,414      30,862
Milk processing and marketing   14,500      22,500      37,000      43,490       57,987      14,497
Soybean production and feeding   5,258       2,013       7,272        1,477       2,215        413
Watermelon seedling production   8,300       5,450      13,750       9,600       15,450       1,536
Drip irrigation in potatoes      5,776       3,500       9,276       4,832        6,040       1,208
Average                          8,838       9,062      17,885      55,325       64,604       8,505
a/ Includes all equipment costs but does not include technology transfer and technical assistance
b/ These figures represent the benefits to 140 farmers included in the demonstration and assuming that they have an average of
one cow and small ruminants
*   Considering these pilot proposals as a fair assumption on the average projects likely to be executed, an
estimated incremental net benefit of each project could be assumed of around 8,505 USD per project.
This adds up to USD 1,27 million considering 150 executed projects over the project implementation
period.
*   The example proposals involve from 5 to 150 people. Assuming an average direct involvement of the
around 5 to 15 people, the component would reach out to 2,250 farmers directly. Considering, in
addition, spread-over effects of the projects would significantly increase the number of farmers
benefiting from the component as well as the benefits which can be related to the introduction of the
respective grant projects. The six example proposals indicate that around 80 to 100 additional farmer
can be reached per proposal. This would result in an indirect outreach of the competitive grant scheme
- 73 -



to around 12,000 to 15,000 beneficiaries.
*   The average costs of the activities is calculated with 10,000 USD. In total, it is expected that 150
projects will be implemented within the project period.
*   For the benefit cost calculation, individual demonstration activities are assumed to yield a net benefit of
8,505 USD per activity, assuming a lower case scenario that in the average net benefit as derived from
the example calculations above. The benefits of the activities are benefited to the project for a period of
three years.
*   A spread-over effect to other farmers is assumed. These farmers would start similar activities,
consisting out of again an average of 5 farmers and yielding similar benefits. It is assumed that every
activity initiates two similar activities two years later. Benefits are again calculated for three years.
Summary Analysis
The main benefits and costs of the respective components have been discussed above. The benefits are: (a)
increased yields through improved access to higher quality seeds and higher profits through the potential of
producing varieties fetching higher prices on internal or extemal markets; (b) an increase in the efficiency
of land cultivation though land consolidation and an increase in land market activities catalyzing structural
change; (c) increased revenues of rehabilitated market and improved access to markets resulting in
increased product sales for farmers; and (d) direct incremental benefits of the competitive grant projects
realized and spread-over effects to other farners resulting in secondary benefits. There are more benefits
related to project activities which have not been considered in the economic analysis as they are either very
limited or very difficult to quantify. These are among others increased sales of seed producers through
improved seed material, long term effects to structural change, gradual increase of marketable products,
improved quality of products and increased export opportunities and linkages, medium and long term
effects of innovations initiated through community-driven rural productivity component, positive experience
of joint micro projects leading to self initiated innovations beyond the scope and implementation period of
the project. Proper monitoring and evaluation criteria will allow for a more detailed analysis of project
benefits during project implementation.
The Net Present Value (NPV) is estimated at around US$ 1.1 million (over a ten year period discounted at
an opportunity cost of capital assumed at 10 percent), while the Intemal Rate of Retum is estimated at
around 16 percent.
- 74 -



Summary Cost Benefit Analysis
Year I     Year 2     Year 3    Year 4     Year 5     Year 6    Year 7     Year 8     Year 9    Year 10
A. Incremental Benefits
Seed Development            284,000    285,680    287,394    289,141    290,924    292,743        0          0          0          0
Land Market Development            0   526,940    533.675    540,410    547,145    500,000    500,000    500,000    500,000   500,000
Market Rehabilitation             0   425,750    425,750   425,750   426,750   427,750   429,750    430,750    431,750   431,750
Community-driven RPMI         90,000   225,000    417,000    525,000    504,000    336,000    150,000    36,000         0          0
Total Benefits               374,000  1,463,370  1,663,819  1,780,302  1,768,820  1,556,493  1,079,750   966,750    931,750   931,750
B. Incremental Costs
Seed Development             700,000   600,000          0          0         0          0          0         0          0          0
Land Market Development    1,300.000    500,000    500,000    400,000        0          0          0         0          0          0
MarketRehabilitation       1,651,000    90,152     90,152     90,152    90,152     90,152     90,152    90,152     90,152     90,152
Community-driven RPMI       246,000   357.000    465,600   464,400   239,800
Total Costs                3,897,000  1,547,152  1,055,752    954,552   329,952    90.152     90,152    90,152     90,152     90,152
Net Incremental Benefits   -3.523,000    -83,782   608,067    825,750  1,438,868  1,466,341    989,598    876.598    841,598    841,598
Net Present Value          1,068,166
IRR                             0.16
Main Assumptions:
Refer to Summary.
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
N/A
- 75 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
The following summarizes six example proposals. These proposals are examples of the type of proposals
that could be expected, rather than pre-selected pilots. However, these proposals could be eligible for
submission to the CGP secretariat for entry into the process, which includes initial screening, full proposal
preparation, review by technical reviewers and selection by the Competitive Grants Committee. These
summaries were prepared by the mission based on information provided and discussions with the potential
applicants and service providers, and would need additional information to be included on the applicants, costs
and potential benefits, and further details on the plan for diffusion and transfer of technology.
1. Production of anti-phylloxera grape saplings
Location. Mollas coMnmune in Elbasan District
Proposed Activity. Production of anti-phylloxera grape saplings
Applicants. Grape Production Association of Mollas. This association has some 210 members and is
formally registered with a bank account, with the major goal of improving production and productivity of
grapes in the commune. The association would form partnerships with the FAO Special Programme for
Food Security project and with the District Extension Service in Elbasan for provision of technical
assistance and diffusion and transfer of the technology.
Statement of Problem and Justification. The commune lies in an area appropriate for fruit tree and grape
production, with suitable terrain, soils and climate. Most farmers have a few vines (averaging about 10 per
household), and are interested in expanding vineyard cultivation to take advantage of the market
opportunities in this crop. Accordingly, the association has rented an area of 0.5 ha with the intent of
producing grape seedlings. However, although the association has local varieties that can be used for
seedling production, they lack the equipment and facilities for producing grafted seedlings of improved
varieties on anti-phylloxera rootstock that could result in higher quality and yields of grapes. Some
seedlings have been imported from Italy and Macedonia at a high price of about Lek 250 per seedling, but
these seedlings have proved to have been of variable quality and not entirely suited to the area.
Technological Improvement Proposed. The association would wish to produce anti-phylloxera seedlings
both for its members and for sale to other communes. In this technology, stem cuttings of preferred
varieties are grafted on to anti-phylloxera rootstocks from local varieties, which would then be transplanted
following growing and hardening. The advantages of this technology rather than the production of rooted
stem cuttings are: (a) phylloxera resistance; (b) higher quality seedlings with better root growth (c) better
varieties that may be higher-yielding and better market-acceptable quality. These advantages would lead to
earlier production and higher yields and returns.
- 76 -



Cost Estimates. The preliminary cost estimate of the proposal in Albanian Lek is as follows:
Financing Plan (Lek)
Item                  Total   Association   CGP       Co-    % of Grant and
financing   Co-financing
Pillars and wire     206,500       0       206,500                 13%
Grafting room        500,000       0       500,000                 31%
Grafting equipment    300,000      0       300,000                 19%
Labour               575,625    575,625      0
Rootstock            255,000    255,000      0
Materials and inputs    686,250    686,250   0
Other                25,000      25,000      0
Technical assistance                                 300,000       19%
Transfer of                                          300,000       19%
technology
Total               3,148,375   1,541,875   1,006,50   600,000     100%
0
% of Total            100%       49%        32%       19%
Source: FAO Special Programme for Food Security
Cost-Sharing. The total proposal cost are USD 20,989. Assistance from the CGP is requested for
rehabilitation of an existing building for grafting work and construction of a grafting room where
temperature and humidity can be controlled. The necessary grafting equipment is also requested, and pillars
and wires for planting an 0.5 ha of grapes for rootstock and production of stem cuttings. The grant request
amounts to about USD 6,710. The beneficiaries would provide land, labour, a building to be renovated,
rootstock material, and inputs amounting to an equivalent of about USD 10,279. Possible co-financing for
technical assistance and transfer of technology activities would be USD 4,000 from the FAO Special
Programme for Food Security.
Technical Support. Technical support during implementation would be provided through the FAO Special
Programme for Food Security project, who would provide the required technical assistance, supervision
and evaluation. The District Extension Service in Elbasan would also be involved in the provision of
technical assistance The estimated cost of this input from this project is about USD 2,000.
Potential Benefits. The annual output would be about 15,000 good quality seedlings, sufficient for
planting about 37 dunum (3.7 ha annually). The anti-phylloxera seedlings would be made available to
association members at cost, which is expected to be around Lek 120 per seedling. Seedlings would also be
made available to non-members at a price of about Lek 140 to 150 per seedling. These prices compare
favourably with the price of imported seedlings of about Lek 250 per seedling.
Transfer of Technology. The transfer of technology would be effected firstly through the production and
sale of improved seedlings to farmers, and secondly through demonstration of the technology to farmers
interested in establishing similar nurseries and grafting facilities in other communes through field days and
workshops. A leaflet would also be prepared on this technology. The District Extension Service in Elbasan
would take the lead in the technology transfer activities with support provided by the SPFS.
-77 -



2. Demonstration of prophylactic animal health care
Location. To be determnined
Proposed Activity. Demonstration of prophylactic animal health care
Applicants. The Foundation for Development of Stock-breeding in partnership with community livestock
producers groups. The foundation is an Albanian NGO established in 1999 which was formerly the
Veterinary Support Department of the Albanian Development Fund. The foundation successfully developed
the methodology and implemented the veterinary component of the IFAD-financed Northeastem Districts
Rural Development Project (NDRDP), and has operated in over 200 villages primarily in mountain
districts. The foundation has the major goal of improving livestock production, particularly through
improvements in animal health care.
Statement of Problem and Justification. The relative importance of livestock production has increased in
recent years with a large proportion of farmers relying on the sale of livestock products as a major family
income source. However, production is low, partly due to poor animal health care with respect to internal
and external parasites and other animal diseases. A successful approach has been that used by the
Foundation mostly in the northern mountain districts, in which all animals in a village are treated against a
range of diseases for a two-year period with fanners paying 50% of the costs in the first year and 70% in
the second year. In subsequent years, the farmers would have to pay the whole cost of the various
treatments to the local veterinarian who has been trained under the programme. This demonstration activity
has been shown to increase the number of livestock producers treating their animals, improve animal
productivity and perfornance, and reduce mortality.
Technological Improvement Proposed. The foundation would introduce a prophylactic veterinary
programme to all livestock producers in selected villages. It is anticipated that cattle would be treated for
internal parasites (intestinal worms) twice a year and gangrenous emphysema once a year, while small
ruminants would be treated for internal parasites, external parasites (dipping) and agalaxia twice a year and
enterotoxemia once a year.
Cost Estimates. The preliminary estimated costs of the proposal in USD are as follows:
Year I                   Year2              %of
Item                   Total  Farmers   CGP    Total   Farmers   CGP   Total Grant
Veterinary treatment   8,800   4,400    4,400   8,800    6,160    2,640     67%
Technical assistance
Vehicle costs          1,000     0       1,000   1,000     0      1,000      15%
Staff costs and overheads   1,000  0     1,000   1,000     0      1,000      15%
Transfer of technology
Local vet training     1,000     0       1,000    500      0       500       12%
Leaflet preparation     400              400      0        0        0        3%
Total                  12,200   4,400    7,800   11,300   6,160    5,140
% of Total             100%    36%       64%     100%     55%      45%
Source: Foundation for Stock-Breeding
Cost-Sharing. The total proposal cost is USD 23,500. Assistance from the CGP is requested for the cost
of the veterinary treatrnent programme, technical assistance costs including staff costs and overheads,
- 78 -



training of local veterinarians and preparation of leaflets. The total grant request amounts to USD 12,940.
The beneficiaries would provide 50% of the costs of the veterinary treatments in the first year and 70% in
the second year, for a total amount equivalent to USD 10,560.
Technical Assistance. Technical assistance during implementation would be provided directly by the
Foundation through its senior staff, with no additional assistance required. However, the Foundation would
collaborate with District veterinary staff as well as local veterinarians in the implementation of the
proposal.
Potential Benefits. It is estimated that about 140 livestock producers in each of eight villages in a
commune would benefit from the veterinary programme. From previous work by the Foundation, from a
survey of participants Information provided by Veterinary Support department of Albanian Development Fund
(ADF) from survey in Puke, Gramsh and Tirana Districts., the number of farmers treating their animals
increased from 20% to 60% following the programme. Milk production increased by 100 to 180 litres/head
in cows and by 12 to 18 litres/head in small ruminants, and fertility increased by 5 to 8% in cattle and
10-20% in small ruminants.
Transfer of Technology. The transfer of technology would be effected firstly through the demonstration
effect of improved prophylactic animal health care and the training of local veterinarians, which would
result in an increased use of the technology after the end of the demonstration period by livestock
producers. Leaflet distribution would also result in increased transfer of the technologies being
demonstrated.
3. Improvement of Milk Processing and Marketing
Location. Dajc commune in Shkodra district
Proposed Activity. Support to the development of an integrated milk market
Applicants. A Milk Production and Processing Association 'Farmer 2000'. This association has some 50
members and is formally registered and has a bank account. Its major goal is to promote the improvement
of milk production, processing and marketing in Dajc commune. The association would form partnerships
with the Land O'Lakes Dairy Development Project and the FAO Special Programme for Food Security
project for provision of technical assistance and diffusion and transfer of the technology.
Statement of Problem and Justification. The commune of Dajc is located in the southwest of Shkodra
district where there are very good agro-ecological conditions for crop and livestock production.
Agricultural land covers about 90% of the area, with about 99% of the population working and deriving
their livelihood from agriculture. Livestock production is the most important activity and is the source of
nearly 85% of farm incomes. The commune has more than 2,833 productive cows, which produce about
13.5 million liters of milk per year (about 4,800 litres/cow/year). In order to produce sufficient feed, about
87 % of arable land is now used for the cultivation of alfalfa, maize and some other fodder crops. However,
limited processing facilities and equipment resulting in limited access to markets remains the main
bottleneck for further development and increasing farm incomes.
Technology Improvement. The applicants would want to promote the development of an integrated milk
marketing system in Mushan village in Dajc commune. To achieve this goal, they intend to: a) establish a
- 79 -



milk collection point; b) improve milk processing techniques and technology in the existing processing unit
in order to improve the quality of the final product, increase the processing capacity, and widen the range
of products to include butter; c) promote contractual arrangements between farmers, processors and
traders; d) establish a local market infornation system in order to provide information on dairy products; e)
provide technical information in order to improve farmers/processors know-how on milk production,
processing and marketing.
Cost Estimate. The preliminary estimate in USD is as follows:
Item                    CGP    Association  Co-financing   Total (USD)  % of Grant
Building renovation                2,500                    2,500         6%
Small equipment                    700                       700          3%
Cooling tank and other  14,500                              14,500       35%
processing equipment
Raw material (milk)               17,000                    17,000       41%
Operating costs                    2,300                    2,300         6%
Technical assistance                           2,000        2,000         5%
Technology transfer                            2,000        2,000         5%
Total                  14,500     22,500       4,000        41,000       100%
% of Total              35%        55%          10%          1005
Cost-sharing. The total proposed cost is US$ 41,000. The assistance requested from the CGP, which
represents US$ 14,500 or about 35% of total proposed cost, is to be used for buying one cooling tank and
other updated equipment in order to be able to increase the processing capacity of the unit and to improve
the quality of dairy products. The beneficiaries would provide the building, raw materials, some necessary
small equipment and the operating costs amounting to US$ 22,500.
Technical Assistance. The Milk Production and Processing Association is presently collaborating with two
other projects, the FAO Special Programme for Food Security (SPFS) and the Land O'Lakes project.
These projects would take the responsibility for providing the necessary technical assistance to the
association during the implementation process, and also for the technical supervision and evaluation. The
estimated cost of this input from this project is about US$ 4,000.
Potential Benefits. The capacity to process milk would increase from 2,000 to about 3,000 litres/day at an
average price to farmers of Lek 28 per litre. The increased capacity would allow association members to
increase their production, and relieve them of the need to travel to Shkodra 16 km away to market any
excess production as at present. The improved quality and range of products would increase the average
sale price from about Lek 38 to Lek 44 per litre of milk equivalent, thus increasing the value added by the
processing activities. Overall, it is anticipated direct benefits would be: a) an increase in the incomes of
association members and b) improvement in the quality and marketability of dairy products. Additional
benefits would include the strengthening of the management capacities of the association and better
organization of the contractual arrangements between farmers, processors and traders.
Transfer of Technology. This association would provide a model for other processing associations in the
commune and district in improved management, milk collection systems and processing methodology. For
example, there are seven other small processing units in the commune that could benefit from the
demonstration. The transfer of the technology would be accomplished mainly through site visits and
workshops for farmers and processors who are members of the Dairy Entrepreneurs National Association,
and through preparation and distribution of leaflets and brochures.
- 80 -



4. Promotion of soybean production and soybean-based animal feeding
Location. Place to be identified in Fier District
Proposed Activity. Cultivation of four varieties of soybean on 2 ha and demonstration of the utilization of
soybean-based animal feed.
Applicants. One Farmer Association or Farmer Interest Group to be identified in cooperation with the
Extension Service of the Agricultural Directorate of Fier district.
Statement of Problem and Justification. Livestock production is developing rapidly in Fier District,
especially in recent years. However, insufficient quality feed and poor feeding practices are among the main
constraints for increasing livestock productivity. Many farmers are now looking for affordable concentrate
feed for their animals, but the supply in the market is very limited. In this context, many farmer groups are
interested in the development of soybean production and in its utilization for animal feeding. The
agro-ecological conditions in the district are very favourable for the cultivation of this crop, especially in
the plains and coastal areas. Before 1990, there were about 2,000 ha cultivated with soybean in Fier
District, primarily used as a concentrate feed. Some farmers, who have gained some experience during the
previous system, have already started to cultivate soybean in very small areas, but are primarily using the
production only for their own animals.
Technology Improvement. The applicants would want to: a) test different varieties of soybeans and b)
promote the production and utilization of soybean-based animal feed. During this demonstration, four
high-yielding varieties of soybeans that have been shown to be adapted to the agro-ecological conditions
would be grown on 0.5 ha each and improved cropping techniques demonstrated. The use of small
processing (milling and drying) equipment that results in better feed quality would also be demonstrated in
order to promote soybean-based animal feeding.
Cost Estimate. The preliminary estimated costs of the proposal are as follows:
CGP    Beneficiaries  Total (Lek)  Total (USD)   % of Grant
Land rent (2 ha)                      60,000       60,000        400
Mechanization costs       140,000                 140,000        933         18%
Labour                                240,000     240,000       1,600
Inputs                    120,000                 120,000        800         15%
Small processing equipment   223,500              223,500       1,490        29%
Technical assistance      150,000                  150,000      1,000        19%
Technology transfer       150,000                 150,000       1,000        19%
Total                     783,500     300,000     1,083,500     7,223        100%
% of Total                 72%         28%         100%
Cost-sharing. The total proposal cost is USD 7,223. The assistance requested from the CGP amounts to
USD 5,223, or about 72 % of total proposal cost, which would be used for the purchase of inputs, hiring of
the necessary mechanization equipment, purchase of small soybean processing equipment, technical
assistance and the realization of technology transfer activities. The beneficiaries would provide the land and
- 81 -



the necessary labor costs amounting to about USD 2,000 or about 28% of the estimated proposal cost.
Technical Assistance. The necessary technical assistance during the implementation process would be
provided through the Extension Service of the Agricultural Directorate of Fier District and through the
Regional Agro-business Advice Center (RAAC) located in Fier. The technical supervision and evaluation
of the demonstration would be realized through the ASP contracted agency. The estimated cost for
technical assistance is USD 1,000.
Potential Benefits. The benefits of the technology would be to: a) increase the animal feed availability and
quality; b) improve livestock production and productivity, and c) ultimately increase the rural families'
incomes. The estimated direct benefits to the applicants would be an increase in the annual milk production
of about 15% after the utilization of soybean-based feed, and a 30% higher return per hectare than other
annual crops such as wheat that could be grown on the land. The general farm income is estimated to
increase about 20% following the demonstration.
Transfer of Technology. The transfer of the technology would be accomplished firstly through the sale of
fresh and/or processed soybean products, which would provide a demonstration effect of the value of
feeding these products. Secondly, the technologies would be demonstrated through open field days and
through the production and distribution of leaflets to farmers in other communes that are interested in
cultivating and processing this crop.
5. Introduction of a drip irrigation system for potato production
Location. Divjaka municipality, Lushnje District
Proposed Activity. Introduction of a drip irrigation system for potato production
Applicants. One Farmer Interest Group (FIG) within the Water Users Association of Divjaka municipality.
The Water Users Association in Divjaka has about 200 members with 3,100 ha arable land. The FIG
would form partnerships with the FAO Special Programme for Food Security project and with the District
Extension Service in Lushnje District for provision of technical assistance and diffusion and transfer of the
technology.
Statement of Problem and Justification. The municipality lies in an irrigated area appropriate for
vegetable production, with suitable terrain, soils and climate. Most farmers cultivate vegetables (especially
potatoes, cabbages, cauliflowers and watermelon), and are interested in expanding production to take
advantage of the market opportunities in these crops. Irrigation water is currently supplied by a pumping
station to a lined main canal, but one of the main constraints faced by these farmers is the limited
availability of irrigation water. In this situation, the introduction of new irrigation technologies and
techniques to increase the efficiency of water use and productivity is of great interest to farmers.
Technological Improvement. The Farmer Interest Group would wish to introduce, test and demonstrate
the use of a drip irrigation system for production of potatoes. The proposed equipment for I ha would
consist of a polyethylene drip system including: dripper-lines, main lines, in-line drippers, filters,
connectors, valves, pressure gauges, venturi for fertigation and accessories. The equipment would be used
in an open field with well-drained loam soils and without stones. The advantages of this technology are
expected to be: a) better irrigation management; b) economisation of water and labour resources; c) higher
yields of potatoes with better quality and market acceptability.
- 82 -



Cost Estimate. The preliminary estimated costs of the proposal are as follows:
Item                   CGP      Farmers  Co-financing   Total (USD)    % of Total
Main lines and
pressure regulator     632                                 632           5%
Filter                2,084                               2,084          18%
Drip system           3,063                               3,063          26%
Labour                            800                      800           11%
Materials and inputs             1,200                    1,200          10%
Technical assistance                         1,700        1,700          15%
Technology transfer                          1,800         1,800         15%
Total                 5,779      2,000       3,500        11,279         100%
% of Total             51%        18%        31%          100%
Cost-sharing. The total proposal cost is USD 11,279. Assistance from the CGP project is requested for the
purchase of the main drip equipment (main lines, pressure regulator, filter and drip system). The amount
requested from the CGP is USD 5,779. The beneficiaries would provide land, labour and inputs amounting
to an equivalent of about USD 2,000.
Potential Benefits. The potato yields in the first cropping season would be expected to increase by 5 to 8
tlha from the existing average of 22 t/ha and by 8 to 12 t/ha in the second cropping season. The potato
would be sold at about 27 to 32 lek/kg, ensuring a increase in revenue from the crop of about US$ 3,200
per hectare over both cropping seasons.
Technical Assistance. Technical assistance during implementation would be provided through the FAO
Special Programme for Food Security project, who would provide the required assistance, technical
supervision and evaluation. The District Extension Service in Lushnje would also be involved in the
provision of technical assistance. The cost of this input would amount to about US$ 1,700.
Transfer of Technology. The diffusion and transfer of technology would be provided through observation
of the technology by farmers within the Divjaca municipality WUA, and through field days, preparation
and distribution of leaflets and mass media messages for farmers in other communes.
6. Improved watermelon seedling production technologies
Location. Divjaka municipality, Lushnje District
Applicants. A Fanner Interest Group (FIG) within the Vegetable and Potato Association. The FIG would
form a partnership with the Center for Rural Studies, a local NGO, in collaboration with the Vegetable
Research Institute and the District Extension Service of Lushnje District to provide the technical assistance
for the implementation of the demonstration and the technology transfer activities.
Proposed Activity. Production of grafted watermelon seedlings.
Statement of Problem and Justification. Divjaka municipality lies in an irrigated area appropriate for
vegetable and potato production, with suitable terrain, soils and climate. Most farmers cultivate vegetables
(especially potatoes, cabbages, cauliflowers and watermelon), and are interested in expanding production to
- 83 -



take advantage of the market opportunities in those crops. The area under vegetables and especially under
water-melons has increased rapidly in recent years and many farmers would like to further develop this
activity. However, soil-borne diseases and moisture stresses are often a problem, and the farmer often can
not plant early enough to take advantage of the early market.
Objectives. The objective of this demonstration is to introduce new watermelon seedling production
techniques and technologies in order to: a) improve the quality of the watermelon seedlings; b) produce
watermelon seedlings that are more resistant to soil-borne diseases such as Fusarium and more tolerant to
moisture stresses; c) produce seedlings earlier in the spring in order to have an earlier production for the
market; d) benefit from higher watermelon yield and from the higher prices of the earlier production; e)
improve farmers know-how on watermelon production.
Technological Improvement. The main improvements would consist of the introduction of grafted
watermelon seedling production techniques. The rootstocks would be from wild squash, while preferred
watermelon varieties with good market quality and yields would be grafted on to the rootstocks. Seeds of
wild squash and all required watermelon varieties are available and would be bought in the local market. In
order to successfully realize the grafting process, the appropriate temperature and humidity are required.
This would require the installation of a 250 m2 greenhouse which would be a wooden-construction covered
by plastic. The temperature would be controlled by small heating equipment. Other small equipment needed
would include 60 m2 of wooden tables, which would be used during the graffing process and for keeping
the plants after graffing until the transplanting time.
Cost Estimate. The preliminary estimated costs of the proposal in USD are as follows:
Item                           CGP        Association    Total (USD)    % of Total
Wooden greenhouse (250 m2)     3,500                       3,500         21%
Heating equipment              1,200                       1,200         7%
Grafting equipment and tables  1,800                       1,800         11%
Other equipment                              2,450         2,450         15%
Seeds and other inputs         1,800         500           2,300         14%
Labour and transport                         2,500         2,500         15%
Technical assistance           1,500                       1,500         9%
Technology transfer            1,200                       1,200         7%
Total                         11,000         5,450        16,450        100%
% of Total                     67%           33%           100%
Cost-sharing. The total proposal cost is USD 16,450. The grant requested from the CGP, which represents
USD 11,000 or about 67% of total cost, is to be used for the construction of a small greenhouse, purchase
of heating equipment, purchase of the special grafting equipment and tables and purchase of part of the
seed requirements and some other inputs. The beneficiaries would provide the land, the labour, the
transport and all the other equipment needed amounting to US$ 5,450 (or about 33% of the total proposal
cost).
Potential Benefits. About 20,000 good quality grafted watermelon seedlings would be produced in one
cropping season, with an average price of about Lek 80-90 per seedling. There would be two seedling
production seasons that would be expected to provide the FIG a net benefit of about USD 6,000 per year.
In addition, the technical know-how of the farmers would be improved. The technical assistance would also
assist in the establishment of a system of local market information and would improve the arrangements
between farmers and traders. Overall, farmers would improve their organizational and management
- 84 -



capacities in order to better address and respond to the market demand. All of these improvements would
result in increased income for the rural families in the area.
Technical Assistance and Transfer of Technology. The Center for Rural Studies in collaboration with the
Vegetable Research Institute and the District Extension Service in Lushnje District would provide the
technical assistance for the implementation of the demonstration and the technology transfer. The technical
assistance along with leaflets containing technical information would be provided to farmers over the whole
season. Field days would also be organized with farmers from different villages of the commune and from
other communes invited. The technology transfer would also be accomplished through the sale of seedlings,
which would demonstrate the value of good quality seedlings with disease resistance, high yields and good
melon quality with high market acceptability.
- 85 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of the UN in May 2001.
Procurement Responsibilities
The project will be implemented by the PMU, first established under two PHRD to implement the project
preparation activities. The PMU is presently staffed with a director, an administrative assistant,
procurement specialist, financial specialist, accountant and two technical experts and well equipped. On
December 21, 1999, the Government passed Decree No. 616 which made the PMU an autonomous agency.
The PMU is supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and headed by a Director who is
somewhat familiar with the Bank procurement requirements. The director and the procurement specialist
attended the procurement seminar organized by the Bank in December 2000 in Tirana which made them
more familiar with the WB procedures and guidelines.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, technical services, works and consultant services. A detailed
procurement plan for these needs is prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During
project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months.
The Project procurement arrangements are shown in Table A below.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods
(i)    ICB for goods = US$75,000 or more per contract except as provided in (ii).
(ii)   ICB for works = US$ 500,000 or more per contract.
(iii)  International Shopping = Less than US$75,000 per contract.
(iv)   National Shopping = Less than US$30,000 per contract.
(v)    NCB for Works = Contracts estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million equivalent per contract,
may be procured under contracts awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). This procedure
will also be applicable to the demand-driven component of the project.
- 86 -



Conditions for NCB
The following procedures will be followed:
(a)    all tenders should be advertised in at least one local newspaper of general circulation;
(b)    pre-qualification should be conducted for large or specialized works;
(c)    minimum experience, technical and financial requirements should be stated clearly in the
pre-qualification documents or, in the case of postqualification, in the bidding documents;
(d)    Government-owned enterprises in Albania should be permitted to bid only if they are legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law;
(e)   the bidding period should not be less than 30 days from the date of publication of the Invitation To
Bid or the date of issuance of the bidding documents to the bidders, whichever is later;
(f)    procuring entities should use the Bank's regional standard NCB bidding documents, which should
be satisfactory to the Bank prior to their issue to bidders;
(g)   the opening of bids should follow immediately after the deadline for bid submission and bidders'
representatives should be permitted to attend;
(h)    a single-envelope procedure should be used for the submission of bids;
(i)    where prequalification has not been undertaken, postqualification should be conducted only on the
lowest evaluated bidder; no bid should be rejected at the time of bid opening on qualification grounds;
(j)    bidders who contract as a joint venture should be held jointly and severally liable;
(k)    bidders should be required to submit bid and performance securities in an amount appropriate to
the estimated value of the contract and in a form acceptable to the Government;
(1)    award of contract should be to the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive bidder who is
determined to be qualified to perform in accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria;
and
(m)   contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) should contain appropriate price adjustment
provisions.
(vi)   Minor Works: contracts estimated at less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least
three(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form
of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. This procedure will also be applied to the demand driven
component of the project.
(vii)   Grants: PMU will submit the final list of grants proposals that are selected in each round to the
World Bank for no objection in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. Beneficiaries will submit
a procurement plan of the projects being proposed for PMU approval. Procurement of goods and materials
exceeding $5,000 financed by grants will be undertaken by the PMU in accordance with the national and
international shopping procedures stated above and procurement of services will be based on Bank's
Consulting Guidelines. Grants will be used for goods, works, and services. Goods and materials costing
less than $5,000, upon decision of PMU, may be procured by grantees by inviting three quotations and
selecting the lowest supplier or contractor without prior approval of the PMU. Works above US$5,000 will
be procured using the procedures applicable to minor works. It is expected that beneficiary of the grants
will also need advisory services of individual experts. These individual consultants will be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in the paragraph below relating to Consulting Services. The
PMU will be responsible for monitoring procurement undertaken by the grantees to ensure that the basic
- 87 -



principal underlying the Bank's procurement procedures of economy and efficiency are followed, and that
proper records are maintained. Records of such transactions must be maintained and submitted to PMU for
post review. A manual of procurement operations under the grants program will be prepared before loan
effectiveness. This manual will include the details of procurement procedures and documents.
Consulting Services
Consultants' Services will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based method of Selection (QCBS).
Such contracts will be advertised in Development Business and in a national newspaper for expressions of
interest, from which a short list will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000, short
lists may be based solely on national firms. Contracts estimated at less than US$ 100,000 each for legal
advice and study tours, as per the procurement plan, will be procured following the Selection Based on
Consultant's Qualifications (CQ). Individual consultants contracts, estimated not to exceed $75,000
per contract, will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines. All
individual contracts will be advertised. The aggregate amounts for consultants services are shown in the
footnotes to Table A.
Training
A schedule for training activities will be prepared on an annual basis as part of the annual work plan
process and submitted to IBRD for no objection.
Incremental Operating Costs
The Loan will finance part of the incremental operations costs of the PMU to admninister the project. These
will be incurred in accordance to an annual budget that the PMU will prepare and submit to the Bank for
its approval before any expenditures are incurred.
Prior Review Thresholds
(i)    All ICB contracts.
(ii)    First IS and NS contracts for goods; first NCB and MW contracts.
(iii)   All consultant contracts estimated to US$100,000 or more per contract - full review.
(iv)   All consultant contracts estimated to US$50,000 or more per contract - partial review.
(v)    All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more per contract.
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to ex-post review, on a selective basis.
One out of five contracts for goods, works and consulting services will be subject to ex-post review.
Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist especially in the first year, whose main
responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and
provide his or her findings.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C!: Goods, technical services and consulting services, and PMU
incremental operating costs.
Special account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain, and
operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in a bank
- 88 -



acceptable to IDA. The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$ 0.5
million. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Reimbursement of expenditures made from the Special
Account may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the following items:
* Goods: contracts amounting to less than US$75,000 per contract.
* Works: contracts amounting to less than US$250,000 per contract.
*  Consulting services-firns: contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract.
* Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US$25,000 per contract.
* All terms of reference.
* Training and operating costs: all contracts.
* Grants.
Financial Management
Project Accounting
The PMU will be fully in charge of all financial management aspects of the Project. A Financial
Management System (FMS), including accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing and proper
internal control systems has been established. During project preparation, the core team for the PMU has
been established (funded through a PPF and PHRD) grant) to help in the design of project components and
implementation arrangements, in particular procurement and financial management.
In order to avoid duplication in staff and improve segregation of duties between accounting and
disbursement, it was decided to establish a single accounting department that will handle the financial
management for the Agriculture Services Project and the Fishery Project (located in the same building).
The staffing of the accounting department will therefore be composed of one accountant and one
disbursement officer. The accountant and the disbursement officer have already been hired.
Although there will be one accounting department for both operations, the financial management systems of
the two projects will be maintained separately. As the project implementation phase represents a
continuation of an existing Project Preparation Facility, a (substantial) upgrade of the existing system is
required. This upgrade consists mainly of (i) the computerization of the system, (ii) the tailoring of the
system to the project, (iii) the establishment of policies, procedures and reporting system for the Project,
and (iv) practical implementation training for the accountant and disbursement officer.
A Bank Financial Management Specialist has assessed the FMS and, after verifying that it has met the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements and it is compatible with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02,
has issued the 4-B Certificate on April 26, 2001. A time bound action plan to strengthen the FMS has been
attached to the Certificate and the development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before
effectiveness, during the first supervision missions and throughout project implementation.
The PMU will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The PMU will be mainly responsible for keeping the
accounting records of the Project, in charge of all payments, operating the accounting software, handling
the Special Account (SA), the Project Accounts (PAs - Government contributions) and handling all
disbursement matters, prepare all bidding documents, reporting both to the bank and the Government,
- 89 -



planning, budgeting, disbursement and auditing (all policies and procedures will be documented by a
Financial Management Manual).
As for the Grant component, the grant applicants will be responsible to maintain single accounting records
and prepare the required reports on a timely basis that will be based on a standard format designed by the
PMU accountant with the assistance of the short-term consultant.
The accountant will handle all financial accounting records and ensure that accounting records are kept up
to date. The disbursement officer will handle all disbursement matters related to the project and be in
charge of the petty cash arrangements.
The PMU staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receive the offers and evaluate
them in accordance with the Bank regulations; submit the evaluations to the World Bank for no objection;
sign contracts in an acceptable format; supervise the works performed by the contractors; certify (jointly
with the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods, works and services provided in
accordance with the terms of reference and the relevant technical specifications. The payment documents
will be prepared by the PMU only after the fulfillment of the above steps. No project funds may be passed
over to beneficiaries or any other parties. The PMU is the only entity authorized to make payments to
suppliers.
Flow of Funds
The PMU will be in charge of operating the SA. The PMU will use a separate Project Account for the
Government contributions.
Internal Controls
The PMU's internal control procedures and practices are detailed in the draft Financial Management
Manual and ensure that the Project funds are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes
intended. The PMU will report to the Minister of Agriculture and will inform in a timely manner about
project implementation and progress.
All PMU staff must become familiar with the Bank regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement, financial
management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A draft Financial Management Manual has been
developed by the PMU with the support of the financial management consultant, documenting various types
of financial transactions, approval and authorization steps, the flow of documents within the PMU and
between the PMU and the beneficiaries, the accounting department of the MOA and PMU's staff
responsibilities and measures to ensure a complete segregation of duties, as well as other intemal control
procedures.
In addition to the above manual, the PMU will have to follow the procedures set up in the Project
Implementation Manual. The PMU staff are requested to document the intemal norms that will be used
throughout the life of the Project. These norms will document the day-to-day internal procedures for each
type of activity (such as correspondence handling, contracting and payment procedures, operation of all
bank accounts, petty cash procedures, authorization mechanism, reporting, filling, etc.).
During the recent past some concerns have been raised conceming fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in
the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. The risk
that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as
- 90 -



acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the Project through the
establishment of the PMU, segregation of duties within the PMU, requiring beneficiaries' representatives to
certiify the works done before payments are made by the PMU and an independent yearly audit of project
funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to the Bank.
Auditing
The PMU is responsible of delivering to the Bank, within six months of the closing of each fiscal year, the
audited financial statements. The auditors will be appointed each year by the Ministry of Finance to carry
out this assignment as part of an overall agreement for the audit of the IDA-financed portfolio. The
auditors for the PPF, for FY00, have been appointed.
Project Reporting
17.   The PMU will prepare proper six monthly Progress Reports and submit them to the Bank in a
timely fashion in March and September.
Implementation Schedule
18.   The project will be implemented over a six-year period.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, technical services, works and consultant services. A
detailed procurement plan for these needs is prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). During project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months.
The Project procurement arrangements are shown in Table A below.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           Ica             NCB         Other         N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           1.80            2.55         0.03         0.00        4.38
(1.44)         (2.04)        (0.02)       (0.00)      (3.50)
2. Goods                           1.34            0.00         0.30          0.00       1.64
(1.34)         (0.00)        (0.25)       (0.00)      (1.59)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00          1.75        0.00        1.75
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.61)       (0.00)      (1.61)
4. Incremental Operating           0.00            0.00          1.88         0.00       1.88
Costs
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.1 1)      (0.00)      (1.1 1)
5. Grants                          0.00            0.00         2.00          0.00       2.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.50)       (0.00)      (1.50)
6. Refinancing of PPF              0.00            0.00         0.55          0.00       0.55
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.55)       (0.00)      (0.55)
Total                           3.14            2.55          6.51         0.00       12.20
(2.78)         (2.04)        (5.04)       (0.00)      (9.86)
- 91 -



Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
' Notes:
a) Goods - Other: Includes IS contracts ($0.201 million), and NS contracts ($0.099million);
b) Works - Other: Includes MW contracts ($0.028million);
c) Consulting Services - Other: Includes QCBS contracts ($0.113million), CQ contracts ($0.707million),
Individual consultants ($0.503million), and training ($0.403million); the audit contract will be financed
out of govemment funds.
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
- 92 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Exp        Cs""    QCam      an       SFB     LCS      cQ     Other  N.B.F  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.71    0.00    0.00      0.82
(0. 10)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.65)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.75)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.50    0.00     0.50
(00) (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.46)  (0.00)   (0.46)
Total  0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.71    0.50    0.00      1.32
,(0. 10) ,(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.65)  (0.46)  (0.00)   (1 .21)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-93 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                        or >0.500              ICB (All)                 1.436
<0.500                NCB (First)                0.105
<0.050                MW (First)                 0.011
2. Goods                     = or >0.075               ICB (All)                 1.341
<0.075                 IS (First)                0.034
<0.030                 NS (First)                0.022
3. Services
4. Consulting Services       = or > 0.100               QCBS                     0.104
< 0.075                   CQ                      0.328
< 0.075                Individuals                0.312
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$3.693 or 37%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Recommendations of the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report to strengthen the capacity of the
PMU
(i)    The PMU shall be assisted by an international procurement consultant (individual) with
intemational experience for a period of six months over 18 months period. This consultant will be
appointed preferably from the date of loan signing but no later than the date of loan effectiveness, and in
any case before the project launch workshop is held (See below). Along with the procurement specialist of
the PMU, this consultant shall provide on-the-job training to the staff of the PMU's with responsibility to
conduct procurement and procurement-related tasks, such as preparation of technical specifications,
bidding documents, etc.
(ii)   Immediately after Board approval the Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all
procurement related documents, including Standard Bidding Documents, both in hard and soft copies, and
send it to PMU. The contents of the procurement book will be discussed during the project launch
workshop.
(iii) Around loan effectiveness, a project launch workshop will be held for the PMU staff and some
identified Grantees involved in project implementation. During this project launch workshop adequate time
(a minimum of three days) will be spent on procurement training of the PMU staff. During this project
launch, the contents of the procurement book (See below), including all procurement related materials, such
as Annex 6 from the PAD, Procurement Schedule from the Loan Agreement, Standard Bidding
- 94 -



Documents, etc., will be explained.
(iv)   The Director and the procurement Specialist shall be given additional training in Turin or in
Washington to enhance their knowledge of procurement. They should also attend seminars offered by WB
in the regional locations.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 95 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
_pendltur Categor               Am     t In ;:J8$iio          FinacIg PerenX000tage7;$ 
1. Grants                                   1.37                          75%
2. Works                                    3.25                          80%
3. Goods                                    1.47           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost and
85% local expenditures for other items
procured locally
4. Consultants' services and training       1.56                          100%
5. Incremental Operating Costs              1.06                          70%
6. Refunding of Project Preparation         0.55
Advance
7. Unallocated                              0.60
Total Project Costs                         9.86
Total                                       9.86
- 96 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
Project Schedule                             '     Pi,.ed                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      20                            26
First Bank mission (identification)             01/10/99                      01/10/99
Appraisal mission departure                     02/19/2001                    02/25/2001
Negotiations                                    03/12/2001                    04/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/15/2001    _-_T
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Government of Albania, Project Preparation Unit
Preparation assistance:
The Government of Albania received a PHRD grant and Project Preparation Facility resources for the
preparation of the project.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Roy Southworth (TTL)              Agricultural Economist
Severin Kodderitzsch (initial TTL)  Agricultural Economist
Frauke Jungbluth                  Agricultural Economist
Ibrahim Hackaj                    Agricultural Specialist
Toru Konishi                      Economist
Hermine de Soto                   Sociologist
Lynn Holstein                     Land Specialist
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Financial Management Specialist
Naushad Khan                      Procurement
Junko Funahashi                   Legal Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Disbursement
Jennifer Corso, Sarah Leigh Hammill  Program Assistants
Subramaniam Janakiram             Agricultural Marketing Specialist
The following staff from participating agencies and consultants worked on the project:
Joseph Matti                      Extension Specialist
Niles Louwaars                    Seed Sector Specialist
Robert Robertson                  Land Tenure Specialist
David Gisselquist                 Seed Policy Specialist
V. P. Singh                       Seed Technology Specialist
Barry Greengrass                  Seed Legislation
Ivan Ford                         Land Specialist
Jaime Novoa                       Agricultural Marketing Specialist
David Lugg                        Agronomist/ Community Development
- 97 -



John Cole                           Competitive Grant Specialist
Peter Bowbrick                      Marketing Specialist
Malcolm Childress                   Land Specialist
The peer reviewers were:
David Steeds                        QAG
Frank Fulgence K. Byamugisha        EASRD
- 98 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
A draft final version of the Project Implementation Plan is available. An Operational Manual has been
prepared for the community-based rural productivity and marketing improvement component which spells
out the procedural guidelines and criteria of the component.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I     Albania Country Assistance Strategy
2.     Reforms in Albanian Agriculture - Assessing a Sector in Transition
3.     Albania Agriculture Services Project - Social Assessment
4.     Albania Agriculture Services Project - Procurement Assessment
5.     Albania Agriculture Services Project - Environmental Assessment, Environmental Mitigation Plan
6.     Albania Agriculture Services Project - Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
1.    Green Strategy, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, December 1998
2.     Korca District Market Development, report for SIDA, June 2000
3.     Albania Agriculture Service Project - Technical Papers
*lncluding electronic files
- 99 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P070078        2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                        0.00       8.10                             0.00       7.50      -0.09       0.00
P057182        2000 LEGJJUD REF                                          0.00       9.00                             0.00       7.97       1.41       0.00
P066491        2000 WS URG REHAB                                         0.00      10.00                             0.00       8.60       0.86       0.00
P0668853       2000 EMG ROAD REPAIR                                      0.00      13.65                             0.00      10.51       5.14       0.00
P069079        2000 FIN SEC IBTA                                         0.00       6.50                             0.00       6.05       1.15       0.00
P069120        2000 EDUC REF                                             0.00      12.00                             0.00      10.62      -0.44       0.00
P069939        2000 PUB ADM REF                                          0.00       8.50                             0.00       7.82       0.17       0.00
P043178        1999 IRRIG & DRAIN II                                     0.00     24.00                              0.00      15.44      -0.27       0.00
P051309        1999 COMMUNITY WORKS                                      0.00      9.00                              0.00       1.26      -2.12       0.00
P066335        1999 COMMUNITY WORKS SUPP                                 0.00      5.00                              0.00       1.86      -2.93       0.00
P051310        1999 MICROCREDIT                                          0.00      12.00                             0.00       8.58       0.19       0.00
P051602        1998 PRIV IND REC                                         0.00      10.25                             0.00       5.54       5.92       0.00
P045312        1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                                      0.00      17.00                             0.00      14.02      12.74       0.00
P054384        1998 RCVRY PROG TA                                        0.00       5.00                             0.00       0.82       0.82       0.29
P040975        1998 LAND DEV                                             0.00      10.00                             0.00       7.96       5.80       0.00
P040818        1998 DURRES PORT                                          0.00      16.99                             0.00      11.50       9.83       0.00
P008271        1996 FORESTRY                                             0.00       8.00                             0.00       3.81       3.89       0.18
P034491        1996 POWER TRNSM & DIST                                   0.00     29.50                              0.00      16.62      20.90       0.00
P036060        1996 NATL ROADS                                           0.00     25.00                              0.00       4.31       5.64       0.00
Total:        0.00      239.49                            0.00      150.98      68.62        0.47
- 100 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AAP                             0.00    28.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.38      0.00    0.00
2000                NCBank                         0.00     2.25     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Eurotech                    1.10    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF FEFAD Bank                  0.00     0.98    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.98      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          1.10    31.73    0.00     0.00     1.10   11.36    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998               Patos Marinza                  30000.00      0.00      0.00  50000.00
Total Pending Commitment:     30000.00       0.00      0.00  50000.00
- 101 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
Europe 6    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central   middbe-              - -------      -      ^        -
Albania       Asia  income        Development diamond
1999
Population, mirJ-year (mittions)                          3.4       475      2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method. US$)                       870       2,150     1,200
GNP (Atl3s method. US$ billions)                          3.1      1.022     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                             T
Population (%'                                            1,0        0.' 1    1,
Labor force (I%                                           1.7        0.6        1.2     GNP             I                  Gross
per    I        \    7           primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                   capita                         enrollment
Povertv (% of c'ooufatron below nationat oovortY line)      -
Urban opoulatiOn %M of total ooDulatton)                  41         67         43
Life exectancy at birth (years)                          72         69         69
Infant mortalitv (per 1000 live births)                  25         22         33
Child rmalnutrition (% of children under 5)                 8          8        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source   of ofDopulation)         76         ..        86
Illiteracv (I% ofpoouaftion 3ag0 15)                      16          3        16
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of schoo-aore popuolatfon)    107       100        114         -Albania
Mate                                                   106        101        114               Lower-middle-income group
Femate                                                 108         99        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979  1989  1998  1999.                        ________.
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS bi/fions)                                -       2.3        3.t        3.7
Gross domestic investment/GOP                     .      31,7       16.0      16.8                       Trade
Exoorts of Ooods ant servicesGOP                  ..    17.9         9.2      11.4
Gross domestic savinrstG5P                        ..    28.9        -6.7       -1.7
Gross national savinos/GDP                       9. ..               9.9       8.8                         T
Current account ba}ance/GDP                      ..    -24          -6.1       -8.0     Domestic   __
Interest oavmentslGDP                            ..        ..        0.7       0.1                                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   ..       3.2       26.8      25.1      Savings
Total debt servicoeexports                       ..        ..        4.5        1.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..        ..       20.1
Present value of debt/exports                    ..        ..       77.2
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(averace annult Drowth)
GOP                                    1.S      1.3       8.0        7.3        7.7         ' A/bania
GNP per capita                          ..      3.2       7.4        6.0                          Lower-middle-income group
Exototsf ooods and services             ..    11.9       -3.5       47.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(I% of GDP)                                                                             300T
Aqriculture                                      ..    32.3         54.4       52.6
Industrv                                                 44.8       24.5      26.0      200
Manufacturing                                   ..       ..       12.0       12.2      'tn
Services                                          ..    22.9        21.0       21.4                o_
Private consumDtion                               ..    62.2        96.5      90.3    .100 l
General covernment consumption                    ..      8.8       10.2       11.4              -GO            -0.-GoP
Imports of ooods and services                     ..    20.7        31.9      29.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averaqe annual qrowth)
Aariculture                                      1.7      5.8        5.0        5.0     80 -
Industry                                        2.4      -5.0       12.2       10.8
Manufacturinq                                   ..    -8.4         4.2        6.4     40 t
Services                                        1.3       2.4       11.3        8.9          0                    s       s
Private consumption                               ..      4.4        9.5       2.1                   95
General qovernment consumption                    ..     -1.9        4.7       22.3
Gross domestic investment                       0.1      21.3       11.5       14.9    .40        -
Imoorts of qoods and services                     ..    12.4         9.3       11.3               Exports         * mporls
Gross national Droduct                           ..       3.7        8.5        6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in boldi comDared with its income-grouD average. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 102 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     1
(% change)                                                                         190
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..      20.7       0.4    100
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..      0.0       24.8       2.5
90
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    48.2       20.3      21.3             94   95   96   97   9B   99
Current budget balance                         ..    20.6        -5.2      -3.9            - GDP deflator  " cPl
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -8.6       -10.4    -11.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    379          205      275      1,200
Minerals and fuels                                               36
Food, beverage, and tobacco                                      30                900
Manufactures                                                    139
Total imports (cif)                                    456        826     1,121      600
Food                                                            157         ..     300
Fuel and energy                                                  69
Capital goods                                                    77         ..       a.
93  94  99  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   .                            ..                * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP l%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..    419         282      419       o
Imports of goods and services                  ..      484        977    11U*281~f
Resource balance                                       -65       -695      :862     10
Net income                                      .        0         68       61      301
Net current transfers                           ..       ..       440      507    -20
Current account balance                        ..    -56         -187     -294
Financing items (net)                          ..    320          258      556
Changes in net reserves                          .    -264        -71      -79    -40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         -.        ..       382      404
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUS$)                        8.0     150.6    137.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..      74        821      921
IBRD                                                              0        0                       G: 35
IDA                                           ..      ..        220      296
Total debt service                              ..        ..        36       15                                     296
IBRD                                                              0        0          F: 262
IDA                                           ..      ..          1        2               i
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..        ..       119      142
Official creditors                                     ..        79      115
Private creditors                            ..       ..         -3        -2                                   c 80
Foreign direct investment                    ..        ..        45       51
Portfolio equity                             ..        ..         0        0                E: 203       D: 45
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..        ..        54      139      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..         64       81      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       ..          0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..      ..         64       81
Interest payments                            ..        ..         1        2
Net transfers                                ..        ..        63       79
Development Economics                                                                                                 8/25100
- 103-



- 104 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28467R
.1830    J19'00                                            19130'                       2&00                          20                           21 00
 *-'  !                                                                    */- f    FED.    REP.                                  F   YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA I                                                                     *1.                _            (SERBIA / M    TENEGRO)
42030                     1%                                                                                                                                                   42'30
4~~~~~~
0 ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~      0
ALBANIA                                                                            P                A
o     SELECTED CITIES
*     DISTRICT CENTERS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAt
-     NATIONAL ROADS                                                                        j
RAILROADS
RIVERS                                             uhs   (v'og.  L   *
-..*  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   -  INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS IN METERSI-                                               *t5         . *                                       '
C t ~~~~~~~~~~~MACEDONIA
1200
Adriat i c                                                KA  J                                   *
SicX,e, coAL,S    ao                                                                        NJE LilooRIAo*
Drno
raOMEtERS                                                       le \                       r                     <-z--
~~~~%c iZ                     h     .'; LCN,FDR. __f5                                                           \        PEK          :KQL
. -  ThUGOSLAVAt.             \. BLIk                                                                 cy 5Y              E *V
y Le;      \.o ff X  RE                                                            .     tRUS SIA
. ! LEENE             , LVTAi FE.i
r      (-.    ---t ,        ,,.(                                                93v          >,      )      2W    C                       03'290
LITH ANIAPE
POLAND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~SRAD'
REEPE.               <VTURKE
IX  31,0--1-4~~~~~~~~~~~~1--.--1,l~~2000?2030'2100
-r.-.-4  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0UY19



