Report No. PID8093
Project Name             Albania-Agriculture Services Project (@)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Agro-Industry & Marketing; Other
Agriculture
Project                  ALPE54736
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Implementing
Agency(ies)              MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Address: 'Skenderbeg' Square, Tirana,
Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Arben Molla, Director,
Agriculture Program Office
Tel: +355-42-28355
Fax: +355-42-28355
Email: molla@moaf.tirana.al
Agricultural Service Project Preparation
Unit
Address: Rr. M. Gjollesha No. 56, Tirana,
Albania
Contact Person: Mr. Agim Shehu, Director
Tel: +355-42-35494
Fax: +355-42-35494
Email: Asproject@Interalb.Net
Ministry of Local Government, Selected
Municipalities, Land Registration
Offices, Soil Research Institute, Seed
Research Institutes, Agricultural
University
Environment Category     F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Date PID Prepared        May 15, 2001
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 13, 2001
Bank Approval Date       June 14, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
With a contribution ranging between 50 to 55 percent of GDP over the past
years, Albania's agriculture sector has been, and continues to be, an
important contributor to economic growth since the transition in 1991.
Agriculture provides a direct livelihood for a major share of the population
(around 40 - 45 percent out of a population of roughly 3.5 million) and
generates secondary employment and growth effects through linkages with the
upstream and downstream agribusiness sector. Albania is one of the few
economies in transition to have experienced positive agricultural growth
throughout the reform process, while most Central and Eastern European
countries saw their agricultural sector contract for several years. The



sector has experienced dramatic changes since 1991. Important progress has
been made in land reform, the privatization of former collective farms and
agro-processing enterprises, the establishment of a distortion free incentive
framework, the emergence of private markets, and the rehabilitation of the
extensive irrigation infrastructure. Today, Albanian agriculture is dominated
by hundreds of thousands of smallholder farms producing for home consumption
and a market serviced by private traders, agro-processors, and input
suppliers. An important development in the transition process has been the
emergence of private groups and associations including water user
associations which manage rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure, trade and
producer associations and more recently savings and credit associations.
These community based groups are increasingly assuming responsibility for
providing services to the rural sector.
Agricultural growth has been impressive since 1991. The early double digit
growth rates (13 percent in 1995) gave way to lower rates (one percent in
1997) during the turmoil associated with the collapse of the pyramid schemes.
With stability gradually restored over the last two years growth has resumed
hitting 9t in 1999 and agriculture amounted to roughly 53 percent of the GDP
in 1999. Despite this growth a persistent negative agricultural trade balance
represents a major component of the overall trade deficit (US$663 million in
1999) and local farmers face stiff competition from imports from Italy,
Greece and other nearby countries. Five key areas for the development of the
agriculture sector are being addressed under the agriculture program of the
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC, 1999) currently being implemented by the
Government of Albania with IDA support; and in part under on-going or
proposed investment projects supported by IDA and the donor community. These
are: (i) maintenance of an appropriate incentive framework; (ii) support to
agricultural productivity by addressing constraints associated with
irrigation and drainage; farm inputs, in particular seeds; and support
services (e.g. technology transfer/extension); (iii) institutional
development regarding land market development, marketing and agro-processing,
and rural finance; (iv) support to rural development with regard to non-farm
income growth, rural infrastructure and rural poverty alleviation; and (v)
improved management of natural resources.
Moreover, the Government is formulating its first comprehensive Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). The GPRS, due out in June 2001, will
provide the basic framework for continual concessional lending from the IMF
and IDA as well as for aid programs from other donors. A key area of emphasis
in the GPRS will be on initiatives to space growth and poverty alleviation in
the rural sector.
2. Objectives
The proposed Albania Agricultural Services Project (ASP) aims to create an
environment conducive for rural income growth by addressing key constraints
faced by Albania's emerging small-holder farmers in agricultural production,
trade, and the functioning of land markets. It will pursue these objectives
by: (i) improving access of smallholder farmers to quality seeds through an
improved seed regulatory framework, an enhanced role of the private seed
sector, and the strengthening of public seed related training and research;
(ii) supporting the establishment of a functioning land market through
improved land registration and pilot initiatives for land consolidation;
(iii) improving participation of smallholder farmers in market activities
through the development of selected market infrastructure and active
- 2 -



demonstration and facilitation of market linkages; and (iv) improving access
of smallholder farmers to adapted technologies and increasing opportunities
for diversified production, processing and marketing through community based
technology pilots. A key design feature of the project will be the dual
emphasis on creating an improved policy environment for private agriculture
and on private-based initiatives at the community level to enhance
productivity and improve marketing. A unifying theme of the activities
supported by the project is the focus on market development, including
markets for seed and land, as well as physical rehabilitation of market
infrastructure, and community-based initiatives aimed at improving the
marketability and market value of rural production.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA has gained considerable experience in project design and implementation
across a broad spectrum of investment projects in agriculture and rural
development in Albania, ranging from public infrastructure delivery to
participatory approaches in rural credit. Within the donor community in
Albania, IDA has taken the lead in ESW on the agriculture sector
("Agriculture Sector Strategy for Albania" (1992), "Reforms in Albanian
Agriculture - Assessing a Sector in Transition" (1999)) providing an
analytical basis for a continuing policy dialogue with the Borrower.
Furthermore, the Bank is assisting in the development of a rural strategy
which will provide key input into the Government's current efforts to develop
a Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). The proposed project will
complement other IDA investments and build on the sector work and policy
dialogue. In particular, the project extends support for land market
development and seed market liberalization. The Bank has also pioneered and
subsequently broadened, the application of competitive grant schemes in
Europe and Central Asia, though the further diversification of this mechanism
in this project beyond agricultural research and extension would represent an
innovation to current schemes. The implementation arrangements fostered under
this operation would allow for other donors to find a ready institutional
environment under which to expand and deepen the activities initiated through
the Agriculture Services Project.
4. Description
The project comprises the following five components: (i) seed market
development; (ii) land market development; (iii) agricultural market
rehabilitation; (iv) a community-driven rural productivity and marketing
improvement component and (v) project management. Project preparation has
been financed through a PHRD grant and a project preparation facility which
will have to be refinanced during project implementation. Total project costs
are estimated at US$ 12.2 million of which US$ 9.9 million will be financed
through IDA resources and US$ 2.3 million constitute government, municipality
and beneficiary contributions. The components are described below:
Seed Market Development (US$ 1.3 million). The objective is to ensure farmer
access to a full range of seed technology that is equal to what is available
to farmers in developed countries and to foster establishment and development
of public and private seed-related institutions (including especially private
seed companies) suitable for developed market economies and able to work with
similar institutions in the EU, US, and other countries. The project would
support the improvement of the seed regulatory framework and strengthen
public institutions related to seed training and research. Improving the
access of Albanian farmers to a wide range of new varieties from public and
- 3 -



private foreign research allows farmers to gain access to new markets
including, for example, the Albanian national market for wheat with high
milling qualities, EU markets for fresh and processed vegetables and fruits,
and EU and world markets for vegetable and other high value seeds (for which
Albania has suitable climate and supporting agronomic and scientific skills).
The following activities will be supported:
(i) Improve seed regulatory framework and institutions:
Adjusting seed regulations to international standards by supporting
passage of new seed legislation that promotes voluntary seed
registration and liberalized seed certification; preparation of a plant
variety protection (PVP) law consistent with UPOV (Union for the
Protection of Plant Breeders' Rights); reviewing phytosanitary controls
and taking steps towards membership in OECD Seed Schemes;
Supporting VCU (Value in Cultivation and Use) test for a new list of
recommended cultivars;
Training on regulatory systems and electrophoresis testing ; and
Logistical and budget support to the National Seed Institute to
coordinate seed and variety testing and germplasm collection.
(ii) Strengthen public institutions for seed-related training and research:
Providing logistical and budget support for surveying, collecting,
evaluating, and in situ preservation of wild germplasm for medicinal
plants, wheat relatives, and possibly other endemic plants depending on
private and international interest;
Support testing of selected new public cultivars in an EU country for
EU registration and/or PVP registration;
Logistical support for the Crops Research Insitutes to produce good
quality parent lines and foundation seed and to continue variety
testing and development activities.
Land Market Development (US$ 2.4 million). To complement the on-going
efforts in Albania initiated under the 'Land Market Action Program' supported
by USAID and EU aiming to establish a functioning land market and to
facilitate a more efficient and sustainable use of agricultural land, two
areas of activity have been identified. These activities include physical and
institutional development of the Immovable Property Registration System
(IPRS) and a pilot Land Consolidation activity.
(i) Immovable Property Registration System. The sub-component aims to improve
the availability, access and security of land market transactions in the IPRS
offices to speed-up the undertaking of immovable property transactions and to
integrate the textual land rights information with graphical index maps. The
IPRS is a modern registration of land title system that has been established
in 36 district offices including two offices in Tirana. The currently paper-
based system will be transferred to a computerized system under this project.
Implementation of this sub-component will have four phases over the life of
the project.
Phase 1: will rehabilitate the Tirana One office complex, procure basic
technology to automate the district IPRS offices and provide training in
the use of technology.
Phase 2: will design and develop a model for a fully automated IPRS. The
project will provide the technical assistance necessary to complete this
phase.
Phase 3: will implement and test the model for data sharing between two
- 4 -



IPRS offices that were automated in phase 2. The best method of
transferring data will be determined.
Phase 4: will be a complete rollout of the system in all districts. The
rollout will include procurement of networking technology, implementation
to the network and will provide training in operation and maintenance of
the system.
In addition to introduction of the computerized system, the sub-component
includes two studies. The first will review the body of existing property
related information and the second will analysis the types of rural
transactions that are taking place. The legislative study is expected to
identify areas where adjustments in the legislation may be necessary to
facilitate continued development of the registration system for immovable
property. The transaction analysis will look at transactions that have taken
place to identify emerging trends, i.e. are transactions being undertaken to
consolidate holdings, transfer land from agriculture to other uses, or
related to infrastructure development.
(ii) Land Consolidation Pilot Project. The sub-component will identify
measures to facilitate and encourage consolidation of highly fragmented land
holdings through available market mechanisms. It is expected that
consolidation of land will contribute to improved efficiency of land market
operations in general and to improved agricultural productivity. The aim of
the sub-component would be to identify measures in four pilot communes (one
commune in Mat, Lushnja, Fier and Korca districts respectively) in support of
consolidation that, if successful, could be replicated on a national scale.
It would focus on incentives and information and publicity to use market
mechanisms (sales, exchanges, leases) to encourage land consolidation.
Market Development Component (US$ 4.1 million). To support the promotion of
local and export markets and marketing facilities, the project will invest in
a variety of measures considered essential for the establishment and
promotion of functioning market channels, marketing facilities and export
opportunities. The main objectives of this component are to: (i) facilitate
the marketing of primary agricultural products in areas of Albania; (ii)
improve the functioning and management of selected agricultural markets
serving both the rural and the urban population; and (iii) strengthen the
institutional capacity in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and local
municipalities to plan and oversee market activities successfully. The
project would focus initially on the rehabilitation or development of
existing produce market infrastructure where critical problems of limited
capacity and deteriorated facilities exist. Four wholesale markets have been
identified (Lushnja, Vlora in a first phase; Korca and Shkodra most likely in
a second phase). The project will also consider contributing to the
rehabilitation of the Tirana wholesale market in the second phase provided
sufficient financing from other sources can be secured by government. In
addition, resources will be made available for studies of crop specific
national marketing systems to identify bottlenecks and impediments and
further priority investment needs and for the active facilitation of
marketing linkages where appropriate and requested. The component will also
closely cooperate with the community-driven rural productivity and marketing
improvement component. Proposals which promote marketing activities will be
supported and guided through the application process.
Community-Based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement (US$ 2.5
- 5 -



million). To assist emerging smallholder farmers and other rural
entrepreneurs to develop their businesses, and improve their access to
information and knowledge needed to improve productivity, diversify
production, add value to their products, and exploit market opportunities,
the project will award small grants under a competitive grant program (CGP).
The objectives are: (i) to accelerate the transfer of technology and improved
business practices to rural communities; (ii) to build capacity of rural
service providers to support farmers/producers and other rural entrepreneurs;
(iii) to assist associations and other community groups to take advantage of
economic opportunities; (iv) to help MAF establish more public-private
linkages for reaching farmers and agri-businesses.
Grants would be made available to community-based groups such as
farmer/producer associations, farmer interest groups associated with Water
User Associations and Savings and Credit Associations, and farmer groups
formed for extension delivery purposes by the public extension service and
other programs. An estimated 150 grants averaging 10,000 USD will be
provided over the life of the project. The CGP would be extended over the
whole country during the course of the project, but would focus in the first
year on some of the main agricultural districts (Fier, Lushjne, Kavaje,
Elbasan, Korca, Durres, Vlora and Shkodra) in order to test and streamline
the operational procedures in areas where: (a) they are relatively accessible
as considerable monitoring and supervision will be required from the CGP
secretariat; (b) there are a large number of possible market-oriented farmer
groups and associations; (c) there is good potential for building on the work
of previous and existing projects and programs; and (d) possible pilot
proposals have been identified.
Project Management Component (US$ 1.33 million). Implementing the various
project activities will require a project management team which is able to
provide technical expertise as well as accounts to all fiduciary standards. A
Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established with the aim of (a)
ensuring an efficient implementation of the activities proposed under the
Agriculture Services Project and (b) to provide MAF with the implementation
capacity which would allow it to expand this project with activities
supported by other donors in the future such as in the field of livestock
development and technology transfer. Where necessary, the project management
team will be supported by additional technical expertise.
Project Preparation Facility (US$ 0.55 million). A project preparation
facility has been provided to the government of Albania to help finance
project preparation costs. The preparation facility is being used to
establish and staff the project preparation unit, and to finance consultants
for the environmental assessment, development of the financial management
system, procurement planning and the design of market infrastructure and
rehabilitation of the Central Registry of the IPRS.
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost: 12.2
6. Implementation
The proposed Agriculture Services Project will be implemented over a period
of six years
-6-



(FY 2002 to FY 2008). Overall, project management and implementation will be
carried out through an independent Project Management Unit (PMU) in
collaboration with the institutions and organizations outlined below. The PMU
will be accountable to a Project Steering Committee. It is envisaged that the
implementation arrangements under this project will equally serve to
implement other donor-supported activities, as well as eventually integrate
into the structures of either the Ministry of Agriculture or of local
authorities. The core elements of the PMU have been established during the
project preparation process with financing from a Project Preparation
Facility and a PHRD grant. Key features of the institutional arrangements
are as follows:
(i) Project Steering Committee (PSC): An inter-ministerial level
Project Steering Committee will be established consisting of Ministers or
their representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and Food, Finance,
Economic Cooperation and Trade, Local Authorities; as well as the Chief
Registrar. The PSC will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
It will be responsible for reviewing and approving the annual work program
and budget of the PMU; as well as setting priorities, resolving conflicts and
facilitating implementation of the agreed work program.
(ii) Project Management Unit (PMU): The Project Management Unit is
currently responsible for project preparation. The PMU operates an office in
Tirana. The PMU director reports to the chairperson of the Project Steering
Committee (i.e. the Minister of Agriculture and Food) or his designate. The
PMU is responsible for overall project coordination, procurement,
disbursement and financial management under the project. The PMU office
consists of a project director, a procurement specialist, a disbursement
officer, an accountant, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, information
technology specialist, training specialist, and supporting staff (consisting
of two assistants, one interpreter, and two drivers). The disbursement
officer and the project accountant are part of the same accounting department
shared with the Fishery project. In addition, subject matter specialists in
land administration, the seed sector, marketing and community based
initiatives will oversee implementation. The PMU is responsible for the
preparation of an annual work program and budget of the project.
Implementation Partners
In implementing the Seed Development Component, the PMU will work closely
with the Seeds Department of the MAF, the National Seed Institute, two
national seed associations, and farmer associations, as well as individual
farmer seed producers. The supported seed research insitutes would be
responsible for the implementation of the seed multiplication activities. The
participating institutes would be required to submit a report annually. A
Seed Business Development Specialist in the PMU would be responsible for the
co-ordination of the seed component as a whole.
Under the Land Market Development Component, the PMU would work in close
collaboration with the Offices of the Chief Registrar and the Soils Research
Institute, and communities selected for a voluntary land consolidation pilot.
In establishing market infrastructure under the Market Development Component,
the PMU will work with the Ministry of Local Authorities and in particular
the municipalities of Lushnja, Vlore and, in a second phase Korca and Shkoder
- 7 -



and potentially Tirana; as well as local farmers, farmer groups and product
traders. It is envisaged that the ownership of both the land and buildings
would be with the municipality or local government, and the day to day
management and administration would be conducted by a market authority which
will be operating under the local government. For rehabilitating or
constructing market infrastructure, the PMU will work with a local company to
approve designs, to transfer funds for market construction, and to ensure
that local governments prepare workable management and maintenance
arrangements and to supervise construction. A specialist within the PMU would
be responsible to oversee training activities in market organization and
operation, market rehabilitation activities and support market and marketing
related proposals under the community-based rural productivity and marketing
improvement component.
Under the Community-Based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
Component proposals would be developed by community and farmers groups and
associations assisted where necessary by the PMU or by other projects or
NGOs. A small secretariat will be established in the PMU to coordinate and
manage the component, conduct training and facilitate arrangements between
the applicants and the wide range of technical expertise that would be
required to assist the beneficiaries during the preparation of their
proposals, supervision and evaluation. Proposals will be evaluated by
technical specialist peer reviewers followed by an independent Competitive
Grants Committee (CGC) review and decision. The CGC would include specialists
from the MAF, farmer/producer and other associations, NGOs and other projects
and programs. Winning proposals will be selected by the CGC and
recommendations passed on to the PMU director for signature and endorsement.
Beneficiaries will be required to contribute at least 25t of the total costs
of the activities either financially or in-kind.
7. Sustainability
The proposed operation is associated with significant risk, both at the
country level, as well as at the level of the individual components.
Sustainability, beyond the implementation period, is considered likely for
those project activities which are carried out largely in the domain of the
private sector and communities, as demonstrated by the limited impact of the
1997 civil unrest on private sector assets and initiatives. Hence, activities
related to strengthening national seed associations and farmer based seed
production, developing public/private links to support community based
initiatives to address productivity and marketing conditions and establishing
a market infrastructure would appear to be sustainable beyond the life of the
project, once initiated. Sustainability of regulatory reforms associated with
liberalizing the seeds sector is equally considered likely, once implemented.
The final design of activities associated with strengthening the capacity of
the MAF and the Registrar's Offices has been carefully tailored to ensure
sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This operation builds on the project implementation experience of programs
supported by IDA and other donors mentioned above in the agriculture and
rural sector in Albania over the past seven years. It appears that one key to
success in project implementation was to address from the beginning the
issues of institutional capacity at the level of the implementation unit,
and to focus on a decentralized delivery structure. This approach has
achieved remarkable success. The ASP is addressing both of these issues from
- 8 -



the design stage by (i) the establishment of a PMU specific to this project
which will be staffed by specialists in the respective topics and supported
by foreign TA on key administrative and technical aspects; and (ii) focusing
on the decentralization of implementation by supporting the capacity of
existing local associations and the involvement of the private sector for
services delivery. During project preparation, the core team for the PMU has
been established (funded through a PPF and PHRD grant) to help in the design
of project components and implementation arrangements, in particular
procurement and financial management.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:   An environmental assessment was carried out as part of project
preparation. It is anticipated that the ASP will have environmental benefits
and will not have any major environmental impacts. Both the Rural Market
Development component and the Community-based Rural Productivity and
Marketing component would finance small scale rural infrastructure which
could have local environmental impacts. The project is rated an environmental
category "FI" because investments under the community-based component would
be awarded on a competitive basis, and therefore will not be known until the
project is under implementation.
The environmental assessment was discussed with local stakeholders at a
series of workshops. An Environmental Management Plan prepared during
project preparation will be implemented to mitigate environmental impacts
identified by the Environmental Assessment, and to inform environmental
reviews that should be carried out for activities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Frauke Jungbluth
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-5084
Fax:   (202) 614-0696
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 22, 2002.
9



