                                                                                                                        92500
Albania: A Reliable Outlet for Produce Doubles Productivity                                                             March 31, 2006
The World Bank has helped create Albania's first well-organized fruit and vegetable market

                            LUSHNJE, Albania - When Kodhel Verga first started selling green peppers, trading was a crime. A truck
                            driver in the Albanian army, he used to transport sacks of produce on the sly, hiding the weights for his scales
                            inside the cavity of peppers. He continued selling vegetables when communism collapsed and eventually
                            dropped his low-paying army job to trade full-time. Verga would mount one sack of produce on the handlebar
                            of his bicycle, load two on the back and cycle down dirt paths selling tomatoes and squash to his neighbors.

                            Today Verga, 39, shares two minivans with his brothers. He brings the bountiful Mediterranean produce of
                            Lushnje, neatly packed in plastic cases, to the market of Korca, 250 km away in eastern Albania where the
                            weather is colder and the growing season kicks in later.

                            Verga’s happier circumstances reflect the transformation of Albania’s market economy from illegal to grey and
                            finally, in the last few years, to something more open and organized. The transition is particularly visible in the
                            agricultural sector where a World Bank loan to the Albanian government has helped fund the country’s first
                            professionally-organized fruit and vegetable markets.
Trader Kodhel Verga has
moved away from the grey   The first market funded by the Agricultural Services project was established in Lushnje, a town in Albania’s
economy.                   most fertile valley, southwest of the capital city of Tirana, close to the Adriatic sea. Although the market was
                           opened only two years ago, business is so brisk that it is already expanding to keep up with demand for stalls
and parking spaces. A second market opened in Korca last year and two other markets, in Shkodra in Albania’s mountainous north and in
Vlora on the coast, are under construction.

A reliable outlet for produce triggers a rise in productivity

                                                                                                          
In Lushnje, farmers have found a reliable outlet for their produce, eliminating the need to drive for
hours looking for buyers scattered in different towns and ridding them of the fear that what they
grow would not sell. Since the market opened, production in the area has doubled both in open
fields and in the hundreds of new greenhouses that have cropped up in no time.

“We expected production to grow but not so fast,” says Enkes Shundi, a market specialist working
on the Agricultural Services project. As the quantities have increased, so have the diversity and
quality of the produce on sale.
                                                                                                         The Lushnje market has proven
                                                                                                             extremely popular.
                                       On a bustling early summer day, evidence of progress is all
                                       around. Take Trifon Stambolliu, for example, the president of a farmer’s association in the Lushnje
                                       region, a former military officer laid off in the restructuring of the Albanian army in 1995. Before the
                                       creation of a central market, Stambolliu grew only one crop (cucumbers). Only 6% of his small plot
 
                                       of land was covered in greenhouses; now a third of his land is covered by them. He grows
                                       cucumbers but also tomatoes, melons, cauliflower and salad.

                                       “My production has increased tenfold,” says Stambolliu, 49, “partly because I use better technology
                                       but mostly because I now have a place to sell.”
 Production in the area has doubled.
Organizing trade along clear lines

In the past, Stambolliu and other local farmers gathered near a stadium in Lushnje. “We would sell our produce straight out of a van. It
was muddy in the winter and dusty in the summer,” he recalls. “I was the first to sign a contract to rent a stall here,” he notes proudly. The
new market is paved and divided in clear sections. A light roof provides shade that helps produce stay fresh longer.

The Lushnje market was created more than 10 years after the collapse of communism and the demise of planned agriculture. It fills an
important gap in the country’s infrastructure. Under the old regime, produce went from cooperative farms to storage facilities in the cities
and into a network of shops. Everything - down to the price, type and quality of products - was controlled by the state, with the usual
shortages and deficiencies that plagued centrally planned distribution systems elsewhere.

The state-run warehouses were abandoned and destroyed after 1991. Land was distributed in                                                          
small parcels. Rural Albanians received an average 1.5 hectares of land (or 3.7 acres, about the
size of two soccer fields) which the newly independent farmers cultivated with primitive means
mainly to feed their families. Excess production was sold in a chaotic fashion, with farmers wasting
much of their time looking for traders and traders driving rough back roads in search of produce.
“We created a new mentality,” says Agim Shehu, the Albanian director of the Agricultural Services
project. “Farmers and traders would not have been able to create organized markets with
standardized rules spontaneously.” Lushnje is run by a well-respected director who collects set fees
                                                                                                     Before the creation of markets, trade
from farmers and traders. Those proceeds will be used for the market's expansion.
                                                                                                        used to occur haphazardly, straight
                                                                                                        from the back of vans.
Setting higher standards for export

                                                                                                          
Shehu and his team are working now to improve the efficiency of the new markets, by increasing the
flow of information. Wholesale prices fetched at Lushnje and Korca are distributed to retail shops by
email, preventing traders from hiking up prices too much and gouging consumers.

The market director at Lushnje also holds seminars to inform farmers of the demand for fruit for
example and orient their production in sensible ways. Other efforts are being made to better package
and label produce for export. In time, a market like Lushnje could assemble the volume and quality of
produce necessary for mass export to neighboring countries like Italy.

Traders from Kosovo, Macedonia and Montenegro show up regularly at the market. Stambolliu also Farmer Trifon Stambolliu aleady
met a Dutch exporter there. His tomatoes are now being eaten as far away as England, Holland and exports some of his produce .
Russia, he says. Not bad for an accidental farmer with 1.8 hectares of land.

                                                                   ***

This progress was made possible thanks to the Albania Agriculture Services Project (2001-2007). To read more about this project,
click here.

Initially published in July 2005
