                                    Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                          Report No: ICR0000735



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-35220)



                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.9 MILLION
                        (US$ 9.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

                                      FOR AN

                       AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT



                                September 8, 2008




                        Sustainable Development Department




South East Europe Country Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




                                                                              i

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective May 13, 2008)
                         Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (ALL)
                                    1.00 = US$ [0.013]
                                    US$ 1.00 = [78.8]

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 ­ June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
       ARS      Agriculture Research System
       ASAC     Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
       ATTC     Agriculture Technology Transfer Center
       AUT      Agriculture University of Tirana
       CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
       CGP      Competitive Grants Program
       DUS      Distinctiveness, Uniformity and Stability (test)
       ECA      Europe & Central Asia (region)
       EMP      Environmental Management Plan
       FCRI     Field Crop Research Institute
       FIG      Farmer Interest Group
       GoA      Government of Albania
       IPRS     Immovable Property Registration System
       IRR      Internal Rate of Return
       ISTA     International Seed Testing Association
       LAMP     Land Administration and Management Project
       M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
       MAFCP    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection
       N.O.     No Objection
       NGO      Non-Governmental Organisation
       NPV      Net Present Value
       NSI      National Seed Institute
       OECD     Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
       PDO      Project Development Objectives
       PHARE    Pologne, Hongrie Assistance à la Reconstruction Economique
       PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development (fund)
       PMU      Project Management Unit
       PPF      Project Preparation Fund
       PVP      Plant Variety Protection
       ToR      Terms of Reference
       UPOV     Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants
       VCU      Value in Cultivation and Use
       Xrate    Exchange rate


Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

Country Director: Jane Armitage

Sector Manager: Holger Kray (acting)

Project Team Leader: Julian Lampietti

ICR Team: Carl von Essen,
           Joseph Goldberg,
           Philip Van der Celen




                                                                              ii

                                                ALBANIA
             ALBANIA AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT (P054736)


                                              CONTENTS
Data Sheet

   A. Basic Information

   B. Key Dates

   C. Ratings Summary

   D. Sector and Theme Codes

   E. Bank Staff

   F. Results Framework Analysis

   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

   H. Restructuring

   I. Disbursement Graph

1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.................................................1
  1.1.   Context at Appraisal............................................................................................ 1
  1.2.    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators ............... 1
  1.3.    Revised PDO....................................................................................................... 2
  1.4.   Main Beneficiaries .............................................................................................. 2
  1.5.   Original Components .......................................................................................... 2
  1.6.    Revised Components........................................................................................... 4
  1.7.   Other significant changes.................................................................................... 4
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.................................................5
  2.1.   Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry............................................... 5
  2.2.   Implementation ................................................................................................... 7
  2.3.    Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization................. 8
  2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance................................................................. 8
  2.5.   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase .............................................................. 9
3.   Assessment of Outcomes ..............................................................................................9
  3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ....................................... 9
  3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives.............................................. 9
  3.3.    Efficiency (see Annex 3 for a detailed description).......................................... 11
  3.4.   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating........................................................... 12
  3.5.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts ........................................ 12
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...........................................................12
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................12
  5.1.    Bank Performance............................................................................................. 12
  5.2.    Borrower Performance...................................................................................... 13
6.   Lessons Learned..........................................................................................................14
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.............15
  MAP




                                                                                                                              iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Agriculture Services
Country:                Albania               Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P054736               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35220
ICR Date:               09/08/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     ALBANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 7.9M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 7.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Protection
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of Japan


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/03/2000    Effectiveness:       12/21/2001          12/21/2001
Appraisal:             02/23/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/14/2001    Mid-term Review:                         09/24/2004
                                     Closing:             12/31/2007          03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Satisfactory           Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing           Moderately
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:           Satisfactory           Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                             20                  30
Agricultural marketing and trade                                46                  50
Central government administration                               34                  20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regulation and competition policy                              Primary           Primary
Rural markets                                                  Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                     Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:           Holger A. Kray                    Kevin M. Cleaver
Project Team Leader:      Julian A. Lampietti              Van Roy Southworth
ICR Team Leader:          Carl-Fredrik von Essen
ICR Primary Author:       Carl-Fredrik von Essen
                          Philip Van der Celen
                          Joseph R. Goldberg



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Creation of an environment conducive to rural income growth and poverty reduction by
addressing key constraints facing Albania's emerging small-holder farmers in production,
trade and land markets.



                                              ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
                Improved access to quality market facilities and increased import substitution
Indicator 1 :   with Albanian produce and increased revenue of municipalities through market
                operation.

                a) Total market revenues: a) Total market                     a) Total market

                0;                        revenues 2007:                      revenues 2007:

                b) Profitable Market      US$700K;                            US$ 828,000;

                companies: n/a;           b) Profitable                       b) Profitable
                                          Market companies:                   Market companies
Value           c) Tax (VAT/incometax)    4/4;                                2006: 4/4;
quantitative or paid: 0                   c) Total Tax                        c) Total VAT+Tax
Qualitative)    (before proj. ect, most
                markets were informal     (VAT/income tax)                    2007: US$

                or/and illegal);          2007: US$150K;                      176,500;

                d) Average % imported     d) Average %                        d) Average %

                goods sold at markets:    imported goods                      imported goods

                n/a.                      sold at markets:                    sold at markets:
                                          <50%.                               37%
Date achieved 05/16/2001                  12/31/2007                          03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target Achieved (average 117%)
achievement)
                Increased access to improved seed supplies and planting materials as measured
Indicator 2 :   by the number of varieties available and the increased availability of high quality
                seeds.
                                          Varieties
                a) Varieties available:   available: T.B.D.                   a) Varieties tested

Value           N/A. No Seed              Later decided to be                 & available in

quantitative or certification;            (a) 15 varieties                    National seed

Qualitative)    b) Estimated 5% farmers available and (b)                     catalogue: 81;

                using certified seed.     25% of farmers                      b) 69% of farmer

                                          use certified seed.                 use Certified seed.

Date achieved 05/16/2001                  12/31/2007                          03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Targets achieved (Average 408%)
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Market infrastructure rehabilitated and market activities successfully facilitated
                and improved access to market information.
Value           a) Functioning formal     4 markets                           a) 4 wholesale
quantitative or markets with full access functioning.                         markets (WMs)



                                                iii

Qualitative)    for producers: 0;                                             functioning;
                b) Market information                                         b) Daily prices
                only informally available                                     publicly displayed
                                                                              at the 4 WMs.

Date achieved 05/16/2001                   12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Targets achieved (100%)
achievement)
                Successful organization of community groups to promote productivity and
Indicator 4 :   marketing enhancements as measured through implementation of at least 100
                grant proposals and outreach to at least 2,000 farmers.
                                           a) No. grants
                                           proposals                          a) No. grants
                a) No. grants proposals    approved: 140                      proposals approved

Value           approved: 0;               (Originally 100);                  and completed:

quantitative orb) No. of farmers exposed b) No. of farmers                    136;

Qualitative)   to improved technology: exposed to                             b) No. of farmers
               0.                          improved                           exposed to
                                           technology: 12                     improved
                                           500 (Originally                    technology: 21,209.
                                           2000).
Date achieved 05/16/2001                   12/31/2007                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Targets achieved (average 133%)
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
                Improved efficiency of land registration process as measured in (a) time to
Indicator 1 :   register land transactions;and (b) the increase of the number of transactions (c)
                No. of windows operating in Tirana IPRS.
                                           a) 1 day;                          a) 30 days (IPRS
                a) 2 to 10 days;           b) country average                 Estimate);
                b) country average of 50   of 60 transactions                 b) 150% increase of
Value           transactions per month     per month per                      transactions country
(quantitative   per office;                office (20%                        wide;
or Qualitative) c) 4 windows at IPRS       increase);                         c) 19 service
                central office providing   c) 15 service                      windows are
                service.                   windows operating
                                           in the Tirana                      operating in the

                                           IPRS.                              Tirana IPRS.

Date achieved 05/16/2001                   12/31/2007                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Targets not fully achieved because component closed early.



                                                iv

achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Increased production of breeder seeds and multiplication of basic seeds by seed
               research stations.
                                                                            Amount per
               Amount per research       Amount per                         research station:
               station:                  research station:                  Lushnja: 29 tons, 6

Value          Lushnja: 16 tons, 5       Lushnja: 38.5 tons,                varieties;

(quantitative  varieties;                6 varieties;                       Korce: 79 tons, 5

or Qualitative)Korce: 21 tons, 5         Korce: 75 tons, 6                  varieties;
               varieties;                varieties;                         Shkoder: 5.6 tons, 2
               Shkoder: 2.2 tons, 5      Shkoder: 3.2 tons,                 varieties (Most
               varieties                 8 varieties                        required maize
                                                                            varities)
Date achieved 05/16/2001                 12/31/2007                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Targets achieved, (>100%) number of varieties according to market demand.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Increase the volume of goods traded in the developed or rehabilitated markets by
               about 20% and increase the diversity of products available.
                                         Per market each                    Per market each

               Per market each day:      day:                               day:

               a) Average No. traders:   a) Average No                      a) Average No

               80;                       traders: 90;                       traders: 130;
                                         b) Average No                      b) Average No
Value          b) Average No. farmers:   Farmers: 30;                       Farmers: 133;
(quantitative  15;                       c) Contracted                      c) Contracted
or Qualitative)c) Contracted covered
               stores: 0% per market     covered stores:                    covered stores:

               (non available);          80%;                               87%;

               d) Average 50 t traded;   d) Average 70 t                    d) Average 122 t

               e) On average 5 products. traded; e) on                      traded;
                                         average 10                         e) on average 28
                                         products.                          products.
Date achieved 05/01/2004                 12/31/2007                         03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Targets Achieved (average 222%)
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/26/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     03/25/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.25
  4     07/29/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.04
  5     11/21/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.19
  6     04/08/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.43



                                              v

  7   07/25/2003         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            2.21
  8   01/07/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            2.76
  9   07/16/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            3.86
  10  10/20/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            4.73
  11  05/17/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            5.89
  12  11/18/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            7.04
  13  06/01/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            8.26
  14  12/01/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory            8.76
  15  06/15/2007         Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory     9.46
  16  02/08/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory           10.17



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Overview
Albania's agriculture sector was a dominant part of the economy and despite dramatic changes
and improvements the sector faced several problems. At the time of appraisal, in February
2001, it contributed to between 50-55 percent of GDP and provided a livelihood for 57
percent of the population, primarily through subsistence farming. In addition, it created other
employment and growth effects in the agri-food production chain.

The sector had grown steadily since 1991 and had recovered remarkably well following the
collapse of the pyramid schemes and the related financial disruptions in 1997. At the time of
appraisal, important progress had been made in land reform, the privatization of former
collective farms and agro-processing enterprises, as well as reducing market distortions. IDA-
led irrigation projects had begun to rehabilitate the deteriorating irrigation and drainage
infrastructure, and to form water user associations to operate and maintain such infrastructure,
largely with self-raised funds. IDA-led rural development projects, augmented generously by
both bilateral and multi-lateral donors, had also commenced construction of large volumes of
rural works, e.g. village roads in many poor districts. Funded by the abovementioned projects
there was also an impressive micro-credit program based on village level savings and credit
associations. USAID and other bilaterals had pioneered associations of input/supply
entrepreneurs to serve the farm communities.

However, despite the impressive growth the agriculture sector suffered from major problems,
including use of inefficient technologies, land fragmentation following the privatization, low
availability and quality of inputs, especially seed and fertilizer, and deteriorated supporting
institutions, e.g., extension service and state seed production. In addition, local farmers could
not compete with overwhelming imports of better and cheaper products from Italy, Greece
and other nearby countries. This was a main cause of the persistent negative agricultural trade
balance representing over 20 percent of the overall trade deficit (US$814 million in 2000).

Country Assistance Strategy and Government strategies supported by Project
The project would contribute directly to achieving the strategic objectives outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the CAS Progress Report. The CAS objectives
included (i) improving governance and institution building; (ii) promoting sustainable private
sector growth; and (iii) alleviating rural poverty. 1 In addition, it called to sustain agriculture
growth by maintaining an appropriate incentive framework, supporting the development of a
land market, developing rural infrastructure and improving access to quality plant genetic
material. Furthermore, the project would address key priorities in the Government's Green
Strategy adopted in 1998.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
The project aimed to create an environment conducive to rural income growth and poverty
reduction by addressing key constraints facing Albania's emerging small-holder farmers in
production, trade and land markets. Key performance indicators of the project development
objectives (PDO) included:
   · Increased access to improved seed supplies and planting materials as measured by the
      number of varieties available and the increased availability of high quality seeds;




1Document number: IDA/R2000-20/1. Date of latest CAS progress report at appraisal: 3/21/2000.


                                                                                                 1

   · Up to 25 percent increased production of breeder seeds and multiplication of basic
       seeds by seed research stations;
   · Successful piloting of land consolidation initiatives as measured by reduced
       fragmentation of farms in pilot areas and increases in land transactions;
   · Improved efficiency of land registration process for arable land, forest and pastures as
       measured in the decrease of time to register land transactions and the increase of the
       number of clients served by the land registration offices by 50 percent;
   · Improved access to market facilities, improved quality of market facilities and increased
       import substitution with Albanian produce in areas where markets have been
       rehabilitated, and increase in revenues of municipalities through market operation;
   · Increase of the volume of goods traded in the developed or rehabilitated markets by
       around 20 percent and an increase in the diversity of products available;
   · Successful organization of community groups to promote agricultural productivity and
       marketing enhancements as measured through the implementation of at least 1002
       competitive grant proposals and outreach to at least 2,000 farmers through
       demonstrations and workshops and a broader audience through printed material and
       mass media.
1.3 Revised PDO
The PDO were not formally revised.
1.4     Main Beneficiaries
As stated in the PDO, the project's main target group of beneficiaries was small-holder
farmers in Albania. The project also included secondary beneficiaries such as seed traders,
municipalities where wholesale markets were built, traders of agriculture produce, and
technical service providers to the rural sector (see Annex 5 for details).
1.5 Original Components
Component 1 - Seed Market Development, US$ 1.34 million (at appraisal exchange rate)
The outdated legal framework was a constraint to seed traders and producers as well as to new
varieties entering the market. The poor quality of imported seeds and a decrepit national seed
enterprise that was unable to produce sufficient amounts, forced farmers to rely mainly on
self-produced seed. The result was poor harvests due to low germination rate and prevalence
of seed borne plant diseases. This component aimed to: (a) ensure farmer access to a full
range of modern seed technology; (b) facilitate the development of the Albanian seed sector
by strengthening the public seed-related institutions and training the seed-related private
sector; and (c) improve the seed regulatory framework. The project would fund the following
activities:
    1.1. Finalizing the Plant Variety Protection (PVP) law, reviewing the phyto-sanitary
          controls, and take steps towards membership in OECD Seed Schemes;
    1.2. Value in Cultivation and Use (VCU) tests for a new list of recommended cultivars
          and testing of selected new public cultivars for EU registration and/or PVP
          registration;
    1.3. National and international training and workshops on regulatory systems and seed
          testing, including electrophoresis and VCU tests;
    1.4. Logistical and budget support to the National Seed Institute (NSI) to coordinate seed
          variety testing and germplasm collection;



2The PAD appears a bit inconsistent concerning the number of grants estimated to be implemented. The
indicator is 100 grants and the component description states around 150 grants. This is because the CGP model
was untested and there was uncertainty on how effectively it could be implemented.


                                                                                                             2

    1.5. Surveying, collecting, evaluating, and in situ preservation of endemic wild
           germplasm for medicinal plants and wheat relatives;
    1.6. Logistical support for Crop Research Institutes to produce good quality breeders' and
           super elite seed, and to continue variety testing activities;
    1.7. Seed-related training, including special courses for private companies on demand at
           the Agricultural University.

Component 2 - Land Market Development, US$ 2.4 million (at appraisal exchange rate)
The privatization process had led to very small and fragmented agricultural holdings in
Albania. This was seen to limit productivity and efficiency levels of Albanian farmers. This
component thus aimed to foster a functioning land market and promote more consolidated
landholding through two sub-components: (1) Immovable Property Registration System
(IPRS); and (2) Pilot Land Consolidation.

The IPRS sub-component (2.1.) aimed to (i) improve the availability, access, and security of
land market transactions in the Immovable Property Registration System (IPRS) offices, (ii)
speed-up the undertaking of land transactions, and (iii) integrate the paper-based land rights
information with the graphical index maps. The project would finance the following activities
over a three year period:
    2.1.1. Rehabilitating the Central IPRS office in Tirana and automating the Central and
               District IPRS Offices (Phase I);3
    2.1.2. Developing a model for a fully automated IPRS through a pilot involving one
               Regional IPRS office and one District office (Phase II);
    2.1.3. Implementing and testing the model for data sharing between the two sites via a
               wide area network or via the Internet (Phase III);
    2.1.4. Rolling-out the system throughout Albania (Phase IV).

The Pilot Land Consolidation sub-component (2.2) aimed to encourage land consolidation in
selected pilot communes. The project would finance the following activities:
    2.2.1. Subsidize transaction costs and technical assistance to facilitate market-based land
    transactions in the pilot communes4;
    2.2.2. Policy study on land consolidation.

Component 3 - Market Development , US$ 4.10 million (at appraisal exchange rate)
Deteriorated market infrastructure, weak market institutions, and inadequate market
information led to high marketing costs for Albanian farmers and traders. This component
thus aimed to (i) facilitate the marketing of agricultural products, (ii) improve the functioning



3 The rehabilitation of the central IPRS office would allow for the merger of the Tirana I and Tirana II
registration offices into one location and relocate the civil mapping organization. The automation of the Central
and District IPRS Offices would enhance the availability of electronic property data. The automation would
entail (i) reforming management and registration procedures at the Central IPRS Office in Tirana, (ii) procuring
basic information technology; installing kartela (title) updating software and entering property data at the District
IPRS Offices, and (iii) providing training in the use of the information technology.
4The project would operate in four pilot communes: Fiershegan in Lushnja District, Frakull in Fier District,Suc
in Mat District and Pojan in Korca District. It would facilitate land market transactions by supporting a baseline
survey of agricultural production and landholding-land use patterns, information and negotiation assistance by
agronomists and a land consolidation advisor, legal aid services by NGOs, and public information and education
campaigns on land market transactions. The project would also negotiate with the GoA an exemption on the
transfer tax and provide a subsidy for other transaction costs, including registration fees, stamp taxes, and notary
fees.




                                                                                                                   3

of selected agricultural markets serving the rural population, and (iii) strengthen the
institutional capacity in the MAFCP and local municipalities to plan and oversee market
activities. The project would finance the following activities:
    3.1.    Developing wholesale markets in municipalities where critical problems of limited
            capacity and deteriorated facilities exist (Vlora, Lushnja, Korca and Skhodra).
    3.2.    Training municipalities and the market authorities in the operation of the markets.
    3.3.    Specific studies on marketing issues and bottlenecks in the marketing chain for
            certain crops.

Component 4 - Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement,
US$2.50 million (at appraisal exchange rate)
Albanian farmers lacked information about improved techniques, varieties, practices and
opportunities. This undermined the overall productivity and competitiveness of the agriculture
sector in Albania. This component thus aimed to: (i) accelerate the transfer of improved
technology to farmers/producers in rural communities, (ii) build capacity of technical service
providers for rural areas, (iii) assist associations and community groups to take advantage of
economic opportunities, and (iv) help the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer
Protection (MAFCP) establish more public-private linkages for reaching farmers and agri-
businesses. To achieve this, the project would finance the implementation of a Competitive
Grants Program (CGP). The CGP would award around 150 small grants, ranging from
US$ 1,000 to US$ 15,000, for technology transfer and demonstration activities. The grants
would be made available to farmer groups and local NGOs in association with community
based groups. The CGP would be gradually extended to the whole country during the course
of the project.
1.6 Revised Components
There has been no formal revision of the project components. However, significant changes
were made to the components in the course of project implementation (see 1.7). These
changes include additional activities, early closure of the land market development
component, reallocation of funds and a project extension.
1.7 Other significant changes
Component 1 - Seed Market Development
The GoA had developed plans to completely restructure the Agriculture Research System
(ARS) and in 2006 the project took the opportunity to assist in the process. The objective was
to improve the efficiency of the ARS, improve economic sustainability, and make the
activities more responsive to farmer's needs, specifically for testing and demonstrating new
technologies. For the project objectives it was especially important to improve the
sustainability as the research institutes (now called Agriculture Technology Transfer Centers)
were also producing breeder seeds. In addition to the equipment foreseen during project
design, the project funded international technical assistance and training to assist with the
reorganization process. For details see Annex 2 of the ICR as well as the Seed Component
Completion Report, page 126.

Component 2 - Land Market Development
Immovable Property Registration System Sub-component
The IDA team decided in November 2003 that activities under this Sub-component would be
limited to rehabilitating the Central Office of the IPRS in Tirana, re-engineering the business
process at the service windows at the Central Office and basic automation of the IPRS offices
(i.e. Phase I of IV of the original component activities). The decision was largely the result of
extensive delays in developing a comprehensive plan for the automation of the IPRS due to
repeated changes in IPRS leadership and systemic governance issues. The IDA team


                                                                                               4

considered it unlikely that the IPRS could implement Phase II to IV and already at this time it
was foreseen to that a separate project on Land Management would be prepared under the
CAS for FY06-FY09. It was also decided that a ticketing system would be installed at the
Central Office in Tirana and the IPRS office in Durres as a simple way to address some of the
collusion practices observed at the offices and improve overall customer service.

Component 3 - Market Development
Following the success and the demonstrated value of the Lushnje market the GoA requested
that an additional wholesale market in Gjirokaster would be funded by the ASP. Because
funds were available (due to exchange rate gains) and the GoA was very committed, IDA
agreed to this in September 2006, despite some reservations from the IDA team. The IDA
team did not consider Gjirokaster as a natural collection point for agricultural produce and
further demonstration value would not be gained by building an additional market. However,
it was in line with the GoA strategy and therefore the activity was initiated.

Component 4 - Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
During the mid-term review in 2004 it was decided that additional funds would be provided to
the CGP. The average cost of the grants was originally estimated to be US$ 10,000 plus a
beneficiary contribution of a minimum of 25 percent. The funds were sufficient for 150 grants.
However, after the initial 70 grants it was found that the average grant amount was
US$ 14,000 plus an average beneficiary contribution of 50 percent. Given the highly
satisfactory performance of the program and in order to achieve a countrywide
implementation for the remainder of the project, an additional US$ 600,000 was provided for
grants and US$ 128,000 for administration and monitoring of the grants. This enabled 10
rounds with a total of 121 implemented grants. In 2006, significant exchange rate gains and
the subsequent re-allocation enabled an 11th round of grants bringing the total to 145.

Reallocation
The GoA requested a reallocation in December 2006 in order to efficiently disburse the
additional funds available due to significant exchange rate gains and because Phases II, III,
and IV of the land market component were canceled in November 2003. The reallocated
funds were used for the 11th round of the CGP, market construction costs, as these were
higher than estimated, and the construction of a fifth wholesale market in Gjirokaster. Funds
were also allocated for equipment for a proposed packaging & grading center at the wholesale
market in Lushnje and digitalization of deeds at IPRS.

Extension
In August 2007 the project was extended by three months until March 31, 2008 to allow time
to finalize activities under the market development component, specifically the construction
of the wholesale market in Gjirokaster.

2 Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
The project's thorough preparation, as well as the government's commitment and
participation, ensured a solid design and a good base for successful implementation. However,
some unforeseen governance and project management issues affected implementation
negatively and caused less than optimal outcomes.
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project preparation involved a total of eight IDA and FAO specialists, several studies and
wide stakeholder consultations, as well as the required risk and environmental assessments.

Background analysis
In the course of 1998 through 2000, the IDA and FAO specialists produced detailed studies
covering: constraints with respect to the seed sector, land market development, animal and


                                                                                             5

plant health, food safety, fisheries, and agriculture extension services in Albania. The social
assessment (SA) confirmed the key constraints in the agriculture sector identified during the
preparation process.

However, it is now apparent that three land related issues were misjudged during preparation.
First, the assessment misjudged the IPRS capacity level and commitment to implement a
complex automation process. Second, the IDA team overestimated the impact the GoA's First
Registration Program (1993-2001), supported by the EU/PHARE and USAID, would have in
terms of clarifying land ownership rights, and the quality of the outputs of that program. Third,
it was not foreseen that the absence of a Law on Land Consolidation would remain an
obstacle to land consolidation to such an extent.

Stakeholder Participation and Government Commitment
The high rate of stakeholder and GoA participation during preparation ensured commitment
all around. The initial design was prepared in close consultation with representatives of
MAFCP Directorates, the director of the IPRS, and the Agriculture Program Office (APO). In
addition, the core team for the PMU had been established (funded through a PPF and PHRD
grant) during project preparation to help in the design of project components and
implementation arrangements, in particular procurement and financial management.

The GoA's commitment was also high because the project reflected key strategic priorities
(The Green Strategy, 1998) and would follow-up on earlier Government investments. For
example, the project would build on activities identified under the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC) (FY94-FY1999) and it would also complement the GoA's First
Registration Program (1993-2001).

Risk Assessment and Environmental Impact Assessment
The project identified critical risks and assumptions adequately. Governance issues as a result
of changes in government at local levels and changes in implementing agencies (see also 2.2)
could have been anticipated but is difficult to correct at project design stage.

The project's environmental impacts were deemed small, as was borne out in practice. The
preparation included a review of regulations and capacities for environmental assessment in
Albania. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was thus formulated, summarizing
possible impacts, mitigating measures and capacity building needs. The EMP satisfied the
OP4.01 requirements for a "financial intermediary operation". Training for environmental
impact screening of project activities was completed.

Final Project design
The initial project concept was very complex, including rural roads, fisheries, livestock
development, and extension services components. These were later dropped to reduce the
level of complexity and the project narrowed its focus to four components that would address
the key constraints most effectively. The Community Works Project implemented by the
Albania Development Fund already provided funding for investments in rural roads.
Livestock development and extension services were to be integrated into the CGP. It was
decided that a separate Fisheries Project would be developed to address the specific
challenges in the sector and this is likely to have had a positive impact on the overall
performance of both the ASP and Fisheries projects in Albania.

In retrospect, some of the indicator targets in the design proved too conservative. They have
been surpassed several times over, e.g. the target of 2,000 farmers reached by technology
transfer activities while the actual number is over 20,000. However, based on the estimates at
appraisal the targets were carefully optimistic. The seed institutes were in disarray with most



                                                                                              6

of the equipment looted and the infrastructure had not been maintained. There was no
previous experience with small-scale wholesale markets such as those supported by the
project, only large investments that had usually failed. And the CGP was the first of its kind.
Its predecessors were research grants with very limited outreach and technology
dissemination.

2.2 Implementation
Aside from the land market development component, the project components were
implemented in a satisfactory manner and the development objectives were achieved. Project
implementation suffered occasional setbacks and delays, but in general nothing out of the
ordinary for a relatively complex project. The exception is the project management's
declining performance during the final two years before closing. Below are listed the factors
considered to have had a significant impact on the implementation and the outcomes.

Component 1 ­ Seed Market Development
Institutional uncertainty reduced overall effectiveness of the certification support.
The NSI and the Agriculture Department could not agree on who would assume responsibility
for the regional laboratories. Since no agreement was reached, despite facilitation efforts of
the IDA team, the laboratories are not yet used for seed certification because only NSI has the
legal right to perform certification tests. The regional laboratories supported under the project
continue to perform some tests, for example germination testing, and provide some support to
the regional seed inspectors and local farmers. An amendment to the law is currently being
prepared which will bring the labs under the jurisdiction of the NSI and permit them to certify
seed.

Component 2 ­ Land Market Development
Progress in land administration and consolidation was limited.
The progress in land administration and consolidation was limited due to a combination of the
lack of a law on land consolidation, repeated leadership changes at the IPRS and a
surprisingly high rate of error in land ownership information (and mismatch between
graphical survey information and verbal title information) generated by the First Registration
Program (1993-2001). This only became clear in 2003 and it was thus decided that problems
of such magnitude would require a separate, dedicated project to resolve, with remaining land
activities under ASP focused on achieving quick gains in the Central IPRS Office. This was
probably a correct decision, although it did leave the land sector without IDA support for a
long period.

Component 3 ­ Market Development
Weak local governance environment delayed and hindered market development.
The municipalities were slow to perform agreed actions, especially concerning resolving land
ownership issues, site preparation, and enforcing closure of the illegal markets. It was often
unclear whether the agreed actions were not performed because the municipality lacked
ability, or if it lacked the will, due to a different agenda. Either way, it caused delays in
starting the works and hindered the markets' operation.

Component 4 ­ Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
Continuous adaptation was the key to the CGP success.
The CGP was continuously adapted throughout the project life in line with the feedback
provided by all relevant stakeholders. The CGP Secretariat and the FAO specialist adapted the
CGP Operations Manual based on the feedback, which resulted in a robust and transparent
grant process that is currently used as a model for other competitive grant programs in the
ECA region.



                                                                                               7

Project Management
Loss of institutional knowledge and delays due to staff dismissals was a problem.
The PMU and other implementing units lost institutional knowledge and experience, as well
as capacity built under the project, when the GoA reviewed many of the previous
appointments and in some cases dismissed staff on short notice. This caused delays because
the new staff lacked experience with complex projects funded by international donors, and
took a long time to understand the project and IDA procedures. A similar problem was
experienced at the Lushnje market where a new local government dismissed the market
director causing the market to lose the capacity built by the project.

Inability to disburse by IDA rules and procedures caused delays and canceled activities.
Due to favorable exchange rate gains and the cancellation of various activities under the IPRS
sub-component, the project had around US$1 million at the beginning of 2006 to perform
additional activities that would enhance the impact and the sustainability of the project's
achievements. Unfortunately, the inability of parts of the PMU to transparently prepare and
execute procurement packages in accordance with IDA rules and procedures caused many
delays and ultimately cancellations. Lack of pro-activity and timely planning were also
contributing factors. Summarized below are some examples, for details see Annex 2, section
"Project management"
   (i)      Inability to produce a transparent selection procedure for the private operator
            needed for the packaging and grading center at Lushnje wholesale market. The
            delay in performing this activity subsequently led to the cancellation of the
            activity;
   (ii)     Neglecting to supervise and take action on problems arising at the Gjirokaster
            market construction site causing significant delays. These were worsened by the
            PMU's inability to report on these problems to the IDA team and the MAFCP;
   (iii)    Inability to supervise consultants and consultant outputs in a competent and timely
            manner, e.g. assignments to produce technical specifications for electronic gate
            system for the wholesale markets, the IPRS customer survey, and the supervising
            firm of the Gjirokaster market construction;
   (iv)     Inability to produce implementation and disbursement plans in a timely manner
            causing inefficient use of remaining funds, and general delays and inconsistencies
            in procurement.

The project closed with approximately US$ 1.4 million of IDA resources un-disbursed.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system and the list of indicators covered the project
objectives adequately. However, the M&E system should have been better utilized for project
management and the IDA team could have followed up on this better. Surveys instituted for
the mid-term review were well done, and the completion surveys were innovative, thorough
and perceptive. In each case they focused on the critical parameters for each component and
provided the basis for this report.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Only one safeguard was considered applicable during appraisal: Environmental Assessment
(OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01). The mitigating measures and monitoring activities were
performed as prescribed and the safeguard policy has been satisfactorily complied with
throughout the project.

The financial management was found satisfactory throughout the project life. It was regularly
supervised by the financial management specialist at the World Bank country office in


                                                                                             8

Albania. The quality of the procurement was satisfactory until the change of the PMU director
and the rating was formally changed to unsatisfactory in ISR number 15 (June 2007). The
quality of the procurement in terms of outputs and timeliness had declined. The number and
the seriousness of the mistakes were at an unacceptable level (see Annex 2 for more details).
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Component 1 ­ Seed Market Development
The operational costs associated with the investment, including membership fees for the
OECD and UPOV schemes, have been absorbed in the NSI budget. The Agriculture
Technology Transfer Centers (ATTCs) are maintained by the Department of Agriculture
Sciences but offer some cost recovery through the production and marketing of elite seed. The
Government continues to invest in and streamline the research system and the ATTCs.

Component 2 ­ Land Market Development
The issues with respect to land market development targeted under the project are being
further supported under the Land Administration and Management Project (LAMP). The
project aims to complete the first registration of most of the remaining properties in Albania
by supporting inter alia surveying and adjudication, and the further development of the
regulatory framework governing land and property markets.

Component 3 ­ Market Development
While the four original markets under this component are operating well overall, the entire
development phase of the Gjirokaster market has been beset by problems. It is unclear
whether the construction will be finished with the GoAs own budget resources (see the
appendix to Annex 2 for more details).

Component 4 ­ Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
The GoA is using elements from the CGP procedural system in its small grant/soft credit
program starting in 2008. The project financed an international consultant to streamline the
CGP procedures into the Government system and review the system to approximate the
requirements for an IPARD Paying Agency. The GoA is planning to initiate the first phase of
the paying agency in the beginning of 2009.

3 Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project remains relevant and several of the Government's current strategic priorities in
the Sector Strategy for Agriculture and Food (SSAF) 2007-2013 and the Rural Development
Strategy 2007-2013, focus on continuing where the project left off. The Government is
making investments to continue to build on project achievements and to further strengthen the
agriculture sector.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project development objectives, as described in section 1.2, were achieved for most
components and the project's achieved impacts have contributed to creating an environment
conducive to rural income growth and poverty reduction. In some cases, impacts and targets
surpassed what was envisioned at appraisal. While attribution of macroeconomic events to
small investment projects such as the ASP, even only in part, is risky at best, it is worth
noting that during the project period the rural poverty rate declined by about 24 percent, while
value added in the agriculture sector rose at an average annual rate of about 3 percent.5 It
seems incontestable that massive improvements in the availability and use of certified seeds,


5The World Bank (2007), Albania: Strategic Policies for a More Competitive Agriculture Sector, p2-p4.


                                                                                                       9

clear improvements in agricultural marketing potential and performance in four small regions,
and over 130 successful small-scale innovations, rather well disseminated, in agricultural
production, processing, and marketing, contributed to these larger outcomes. The details on
project outputs and impacts are found in annex 2.

Component 1 ­ Seed Market Development
The increased availability of high quality seeds for both new and old varieties are indicated by
an increased use of seed by Albanian farmers and increased use of new varieties. The share of
farmers that use all or mostly certified seed has risen to 69 percent as compared to 23 percent
in 2004 and a negligible share in 2000. Eighty percent of farmers are satisfied with the seeds.
The increased competition, seed quality and certified seeds on the market, as reported by a
majority of the seed traders, also indicate greater availability. The average price has dropped
22 percent for the most common field crop seed.

The production of breeder seed by the ATTCs (formerly known as research institutes) has
increased by 45 percent and the number of varieties has increased by 21 percent. Private
producers handle the multiplication of basic seed, largely thanks to the enabling environment
created by the improved regulatory framework

The regulatory framework was reviewed and updated to enable membership in the OECD,
ISTA and UPOV seed schemes, thus bringing the Albanian legal framework up to the level of
EU/WTO countries. Furthermore, key to achieving the objectives was the project capacity
building in the seed sector, accomplished by providing the NSI with equipment and training
to test and register varieties, and to test and certify the seed, as well as training NSI specialists,
traders, producers and seed inspectors in seed registration and certification.

Component 2 ­ Land Market Development
Project activities under the IPRS sub-component remained limited to Phase I and the activities
under Phase II, III, and IV are being completed under the LAMP project. Nevertheless, the
project itself has had some impacts on land market development in Albania and this
component laid the ground work for the stand-alone LAMP, which is likely to have much
greater impact.

The project successfully implemented the pilot land consolidation activity in four communes
(Fiershegan, Frakull, Suc and Pojan). Although a total of 189 land transactions were
completed, amounting to a total consolidated land size of 94.3 ha, increases in land
transactions attributable to the project were minimal and there was no immediate ripple effect
from the pilot areas notable in terms of the volume of land market activity.

The time to register transactions of properties not previously registered now averages 30 days
(formerly 47), while for properties in blocks which have been newly surveyed 21 days are
required, and 5-7 days for previously registered properties. All these averages are still far too
high, although in part due to the new business focus of IPRS (there are two express windows
for business transactions in the Central Office) only 48 hours are now required to register
mortgages. The number of land transactions processed by the IPRS has increased by around
150 percent since 2001, which exceeds the 50 percent target set by the project. This result
could be partly attributed to the project's efforts to improve the facilities and service quality,
and increase transparency at the Central Office in Tirana, which accounts for the largest share
in land and property transactions in Albania.

The activities under the IPRS and land consolidation pilot sub-components did have some
positive impacts, although not as large as originally foreseen, and this contributed to a land
market taking root in Albania. National statistics show that rural land consolidation is taking



                                                                                                  10

place. In the period from 2000 to 2006, the average farm size in Albania increased from 1.04
ha to 1.13 ha, while the average parcel size increased from 0.2 ha to 0.25ha.

Component 3 ­ Market Development
The project successfully improved access to proper market facilities and significantly
facilitated the marketing of local agriculture products, in particular high-value products such
as fruit, vegetables and potatoes. The volume of products traded in the four markets (Korce,
Lushnja, Vlora, and Shkoder) increased from a daily average of 50 tons, in 2004, to 122 tons,
in 2008, and the average share of imported products remained below 50 percent throughout
the project. Links between farmers and traders were strengthened as reflected in increased
sales by farmers to central markets and traders in the area as opposed to farm-gate sales. The
diversity of agricultural products traded, in turn, increased from an average of 5 product
varieties in 2004 to 28 in 2008. Furthermore, hygienic conditions have improved substantially
at the four wholesale markets and farmers and traders now have access to relevant market
information through the display of daily prices at the markets. Aside from the wholesale
market in Vlore, all markets demonstrated financial sustainability and profitability by the end
of the project, generating substantial tax revenues for the respective municipalities.

Component 4 ­ Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
The component successfully completed 136 of 1456 grants awarded to various producer
groups and based on data collected by CGP over 20,000 farmers have been exposed to new
technologies through technology transfer activities. According to the project completion
surveys, there were emulators of new technologies in around half the villages and
extrapolation of the results estimates that around 400 emulators could be attributed to the
project, although there are indications that the actual number is higher. The surveys also show
that as many as 85 percent of CGP beneficiaries have experienced an increase in annual
income (30 percent experienced increases of more then 10 percent). Lastly, a wide range of
new technologies have been introduced to farmers through the CGP. The selection procedures
and structure of the CGP are being used as a model for similar grants programs in the ECA
region, including Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Kazakhstan.
3.3 Efficiency         (see Annex 3 for a detailed description)

Component 1 ­ Seed market development
The project's impacts are significant but not easily measured. However, an incremental yield
increase as small as 6.6 kg/ha (over a 10-year period) would equal the project investments
under this component. It is likely that the project has contributed more than this to increasing
yields, considering the project impacts discussed in section 3.2 and annex 2.

Component 2 ­ Land Market Development
Over a 10-year period, the internal rate of return (IRR) of the project investments under this
component is estimated at a minimum of 16% (discounted at an opportunity cost of capital
assumed at 10 percent). The upper bound of the IRR is estimated at 47%. The lower estimate
restricts benefits to the Central Office in Tirana alone. The upper estimate extends the analysis
to the whole country.

Component 3 ­ Market Development
Over a 10-year period, the IRR of the project investments under this component is estimated
at a minimum of 8% (discounted at an opportunity cost of capital assumed at 10 percent).
The upper bound of the IRR is estimated at 81%. The lower estimate restricts benefits to cash



6145 grants were awarded, 6 grants were canceled and 3 were not completed.



                                                                                              11

profits of the representative market company (Lushnje) and municipal tax revenues. The
higher estimate includes generated benefits of traders, farmers, and other stakeholders.

Component 4 - Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
Over a 10-year period, the average IRR of grant investments under this component is
estimated at 17% (discounted at an opportunity cost of capital assumed at 10 percent), based
on detailed analysis of randomly sampled grants.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The PDOs, as relevant at closing as at appraisal, have largely been achieved and the project
has had impacts beyond expectations, as summarized in 3.2 and detailed in Annex 2. The
efficiency of the components is good and is likely to be significantly higher than can be
shown in the calculations, summarized in 3.3 and detailed in Annex 3.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project contributed to the significant decline of about 24 percent in rural poverty rates
observed in Albania in the period 2002-2005. In addition, by supporting collaborative
research and technology transfer projects through the CGP, creating links between farmer
groups and private and public rural service providers, the project contributed to social capital
formation. Five percent of the CGP grants were awarded to female principal applicants and 13
service providers were women. In a very male-oriented society such as Albania this is
considered a positive outcome.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The major unintended outcome of the project was the downsizing, restructuring, and
rationalization of the agricultural research system, now a fait accompli, largely due to the
Government's own initiatives and efforts of other donors, but to which the project contributed
both critical technical assistance and IDA's moral support.

4 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate Risk
The momentum towards liberalization of the seed market is considered irreversible in the
context of the approaching EU accession, as is the associated restructuring of the ARS to
realistic and manageable levels. In addition, the support to the Agriculture University of
Tirana (AUT) and the gene bank (germplasm collection) by the project has significantly
increased chances of future capacity building, research and development in the Albanian seed
sector. The land market in Albania continues to be supported under the LAMP project.
Viability of the project's wholesale markets may eventually be threatened by the arrival and
spread of supermarkets in Albania, as has occurred in other ECA countries, but this represents
an inevitable commercial trend with enormous welfare benefits to the general population. The
creation of dynamic commercial partnerships and linkages, as exemplified by the highly
successful CGP, would seem to be a good approach to prepare Albania's smallholder farmers
for this development, with its demand for increased scale and consistent high standards.

5 Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Project preparation was professional and ensured a strong analytical base for prioritizing
agriculture sector interventions and designing the selected project components.



                                                                                            12

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Total number of supervision missions amounted to 16 plus numerous shorter follow-up visits.
The different components were supervised with appropriate frequency and expertise
throughout the life of the project, with increasing intensity as the quality of the project
management declined during the project's final two years. During this period the increased
supervision and sheer determination of the supervision team to successfully implement the
project were main forces behind the project's success. The supervision team greatly benefited
from the expertise and continuity provided under the WB/FAO cooperation program for the
supervision of the seed market development, market development and CGP components. The
project had three task team leaders in the ten years between identification and completion.
The changes in leadership were adequately prepared for, thus avoiding any disruptions to the
supervision program.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The IDA team provided an overall solid project design, thorough supervision and ensured, to
the extent possible, client commitment by being responsive to client and stakeholder needs
and feedback.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The GoA demonstrated commitment to the project objectives during the implementation
process, especially by actively trying to resolve issues in the seed sector. It should, however,
be mentioned that very little was done to resolve the issues with the municipality of
Gjirokaster, though this may have been a case of inaccurate reporting to MAFCP, as
described in Annex 2.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Although the PDOs have largely been achieved, there was significant potential for further
enhancing the project's development impact. The MAFCP missed several opportunities to
realize this potential, mainly due to selection of less than optimum candidates to replace PMU
staff members causing the significant decline in project management quality in the last two
years of the project (see Annex 2).

The poor performance of parts of the PMU during the project's last two years should be
weighed against several positive factors: first, the excellent performance of the CGP
secretariat and the satisfactory implementation of the seed component; and second, the overall
satisfactory PMU performance during the project's initial four years. Despite this, the rating is
MU because project management behavior during the final two years was too frequently
devoted to goals other than maximization of the project's development impact. This is not
acceptable performance and it required constant vigilance and extreme efforts by the IDA
team to maintain project momentum.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The MAFCP displayed a genuine will (if not always ability) to resolve issues in the project
and the PMU performed well for the larger part of the project implementation. Therefore the
overall rating, representing an average of six years performance, is MS.



                                                                                             13

6 Lessons Learned
Successful interventions in seed development and supply require a careful balance of
public and private domains, tailored to the country's situation. The Bank approach has
traditionally swung between targeting the public sector only, assuming that the seed industry
is a purely government function; or leaving the development entirely to the private sector and
the free market. Both of these approaches were specifically avoided in designing the seed
component of ASP. This very small but apparently highly successful component seems to
owe its success to the careful allocation of various domains to the public and private sectors,
for example maintaining a breeding program in self-pollinating crops like wheat (where there
is weak private sector interest) while retreating from government breeding of hybrid maize
varieties (where there is intense international competition including from nearby countries).
The component also strived to achieve easy entry of foreign companies wishing to compete in
the market. The component, including its policy aspects and program for accessing the
critical international seed and breeding organizations, may be a useful model for several other
countries, not just in ECA Region.

A legal framework governing land transactions by itself is insufficient in promoting land
consolidation. In the absence of a complementary Law on Land Consolidation, an
exclusively market-driven approach to land consolidation as was adopted by the project is
unlikely to succeed in promoting land consolidation in a transition context.

Wholesale markets should probably be initiated at the lower end of their feasibility
spectrum, with room to grow as demand is demonstrated. Wholesale markets with Bank
financing have often failed commercially, and even more commonly in other donors'
programs. This may be due in part to excessive optimism at the feasibility stage, leading to
excessive capacity and investment at their opening, and excessive debt for the market
company to bear later on. Under the project, stakeholder working groups and detailed
feasibility studies provided a sound base for decisions concerning the size, design, location
and fee structure of the four first markets. This allowed the markets to start at an appropriate
level and grow as demand increased, predominantly with the markets' own funds. This in turn,
contributed significantly to the high occupancy rates, and hence financial viability.

Competitive grant schemes' success can be enhanced by virtue of a strong procedural
system and broad, non-focused application. The CGP's great success was built upon some
basic concepts and procedures: (i) The CGP secretariat played a central role in that it
coordinated the training of applicants, the screening of applications, and monitoring the grant
implementation ­ secretariat staff was thus carefully selected; (ii) the secretariat regularly
collected feedback that was used to streamline and strengthen the procedures; (iii) the
selection commission members rotated according to specified criteria in order to minimize
temptation for collusion, personal interests etc; and (iv) the program had strict procedures for
training applicants, screening applications, and monitoring grant implementation.
Furthermore, the CGP benefited from a strong monitoring system and the adjustment of
procedures. In combination with the close supervision performed by the FAO specialist on the
IDA team and the open communication between the CGP secretariat and the team, these
arrangements made the CGP a model in the region. Finally, the great impact of the CGP was
due to the CGP being open to innovative ideas and not restricted to narrow production fields
or to research per se.

Small can be (beautifully) efficient. Small grant programs allow for a more manageable,
adjustable and relatively transparent implementation process. In a context of overall limited


                                                                                             14

institutional capacity, these mechanisms can potentially magnify a program's development
impact. The CGP model could be adapted to address anything from municipal infrastructure
to support of payments for environmental services (PES) programs. It may need more
supervision and adjustments during initial setup but once up and running it develops a
positive momentum of its own.

Project complexity should be evaluated in terms of implementation arrangements, not
diversity of components. One reason why the seed, market and CGP components succeeded
is that they all fell under the direct control of the MAFCP. The land market development
component, on the other hand, fell largely beyond the control of the MAFCP given that the
IPRS is housed in the Ministry of the Interior (MoI). Whereas the MAFCP lacked the
necessary authority to pressure the IPRS to move project implementation forward, the MoI
did not have the necessary ownership as the ASP was not "their" project. The conclusion is
that complex projects can be implemented if they are under the same implementing institution
and that institution feels strong control and ownership for all components. In retrospect, it was
a wise choice to create an additional slot for the Fisheries Project during the preparation of the
ASP and perhaps it would have been wiser to create a slot for the land market development
component as a separate project as well.

Develop procedures to minimize losses of institutional knowledge and experience due to
staff turnover. The frequent staff replacements within implementing agencies (PMU, NSI,
and Markets) created serious delays due to institutional capacity and experience being lost.
There is a need to develop mitigating measures to address this issue. In some cases building
excess capacity could have alleviated the problems without reducing the efficiency of the
project. The main lesson is that a project needs continuity and permanence to be implemented
efficiently. Maintaining and observing the regulatory framework for civil servants, as well as
resisting the temptation of political appointments in the operative sections of the civil service,
provides permanence which facilitates effective project implementation. If the civil service
appointments are uncertain, a PMU may provide permanence artificially by maintaining a
structure throughout the project. Therefore, IDA should reject politically motivated
appointments within a PMU and if the PMU is mainstreamed in the Government structures,
IDA must demand and support the observance of the civil service regulatory framework. The
Government could consider strategies to ensure continuity in government institutions and
fully transparent selection procedures.

7 Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower
The ICR team and the IDA team acknowledge the GoA's comments but no further changes
were made to the ICR to reflect these comments (see annex 7). The GoA comments on the
ICR include that the borrower performance rating does not take into account the complexity
of the project and that the overall project performance does not correlate to the borrower
performance. The overall performance is based on the fact that the project achieved its
objectives and many other positive impacts. However, the performance of the project
management during the final 2 years was not related to project complexity but rather inability
to follow-up, ensure transparency and comply with the IDA requirements. These are standard
project procedures rather than complex project activities. While the achievements of the
project and the GoA should not be diminished by the project management's performance, the
ICR-team considers it important to highlight the issues so that they may be avoided in future
projects.




                                                                                               15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
           Components                                                        Percentage of
                                     (US$ millions)       Estimate
                                                        (US$ millions)         Appraisal

SEED MARKET
DEVELOPMENT                                1.34               1.53              114%

LAND MARKET
DEVELOPMENT                                2.41               2.00               83%

MARKET DEVELOPMENT                         4.09               5.33              130%
COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL
PRODUCTIVITY AND                           2.48               2.44               98%
MARKETING IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                         1.33               1.97              148%

              Total Baseline Cost        11.64               13.26              114%
Physical Contingencies                     0.50               0.00
Price Contingencies - PPF                  0.54               0.33
               Total Project Costs       12.67               13.59              107%
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00               0.00
       Total Financing Required            0.00              13.59




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal   Actual/Latest
           Source of Funds               Type of                                Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing    Estimate      Estimate
                                                    (US$ millions)(US$ millions) Appraisal

Borrower                                   Joint        1.40           1.81        129%
International Development Association
(IDA)                                      Joint        9.90          10.15        103%

Municipalities of Borrowing Country        Joint        0.40           1.57        393%
Local Sources of Borrowing Country         Joint        0.50           0.00
Other ( incomes from the sales of bid
documentation, MARKET expenses                                         0.013

MADA contribution for farmers              Joint                       0.036
TOTAL                                                  12.2           13.59        113%

In IDA total expenditures is included the PPF expenses




                                                                                           16

                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This annex discusses in detail the outcomes and outputs for each component, as well as the
"outputs" of the project management.

Seed market development ­ detailed outcome discussion
The legal framework was reviewed and updated to include OECD certification and PVP
registration (for UPOV membership), thus bringing the Albanian legal framework up to the
level of EU countries. The project strengthened the capacity of the seed sector by providing
the National Seed Institute with equipment and training to test and register varieties, and to
test and certify the seed. The sector as whole received training on registration and certification,
including NSI specialists, traders, producers and seed inspectors, There is more elite seed
(breeder seed) produced at the former research stations, increasing the availability of elite
seed to producers. This includes local varieties.

The end result is that the farmers' transaction cost for seed is lowered because: less time has
to be spent on finding a trusted trader; the products offered by seed traders are comparable
thus fostering competitive pricing; and the risk to production is reduced (or less seed/ha is
needed to ensure full crop establishment). Subsequently, the share of farmers that use all or
mostly certified seed has risen to 69 percent as compared to 23 percent in 2004 and a
negligible share in 2000. 80 percent of farmers are satisfied with the seeds. The increased
competition, seed quality and certified seeds on the market, as reported by a majority of the
seed traders, also indicate greater availability, as well as an average price drop of 22 percent
for common field crop seed.

The sustainability of the results is further increased by the project's efforts to strengthen the
Agriculture University of Tirana to continue giving seed related courses and encouraging
future research by the establishment of a germplasm collection, saving Albania's heritage of
crop biodiversity. The project's support to the germplasm collection and the gene bank also
built valuable capacity in the sector, specifically related to electrophoresis and variety testing.

The component's success was largely achieved due to the extensive capacity building funded
by the project. The total pool of capacity for seed certification testing, variety testing
according to international seed standards is quite impressive and has contributed to improving
seed quality. Furthermore, the extensive training has improved dissemination of information
of seed certification to the farmers. The complete training program involved both staff of NSI
and private seed producers/traders, as well as staff from the ATTCs. This provides a very
wide interface for information to be spread to farmers. This knowledge about certified seed
has greatly improved the farmers' ability to evaluate seed bought on the open market.

It can be concluded that the greatest impact of this component does not stem from the "hard"
investments, but rather the "soft" investments in sector-wide capacity building and improving
the regulatory framework.

Restructuring of the Agriculture research system
The GoA had developed plans to completely restructure the Agriculture Research System
(ARS) with help of USAID, among other donors. In 2006 the ARS consisted of 18 research
institutes that had individual specializations but were frequently duplicating research efforts.
It was foreseen that the project would provide some equipment for research to the research



                                                                                                 17

     institutes, and for the restructuring ASP additionally funded technical assistance and training
     in research management.

     The ARS was restructured in steps and in the final constellation the operations of five regional
     research institutes, now called Agriculture Technology Transfer Centers (ATTC), were placed
     under a newly constituted Field Crops Research Institute (FCRI) based in Fush-Kruje. The
     ATTCs are now responsible for applied research and technology transfer, and are placed in
     the five main agriculture regions in Albania: Lushnje, Shkoder, Korce, Fush-Kruje, and Vlore.
     The FCRI received all the project funded laboratory equipment and is now the main center for
     adaptive research, testing and demonstrations. Basic research was transferred to Agriculture
     University. The reorganization, (i) streamlined administration and limited administrative costs
     in the prevailing situation of static or declining budgets; (ii) ensured that duplication of
     research efforts is avoided; (iii) improved the responsiveness and applicability of the research
     system to the new farm structure; and (iv) created improved links with extension services
     (both public and private). The GoA continues to invest in the FCRI with the aim of making it
     the central agency for applied research and dissemination of new technologies.


     Detailed outputs and outcomes
     Note that the numbering corresponds to the list of components in section 1.5.
1. Seed market development
1.1. Finalizing the PVP law, reviewing the phytosanitary controls, and take steps towards
membership in OECD Seed Schemes
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                   Outcome
Plant Variety Protection law (PVP) was adopted             Improved legal framework for seed
on 31 December 2001, passed on 15 April 2002,              certification and research;
and followed by six Government Decisions and               Improved business environment for seed
two Ministerial Orders in 2002. This established           producers and traders;
a legal framework for seeds that approximates              OECD membership in 2005 and UPOV
international standards.                                   membership in 2004;
Amendments to PVP Law adopted to achieve                   Increased    farmers'   access   to   seed
UPOV and OECD membership.                                  varieties.
A total of 126 varieties Distinctiveness,
Uniformity and Stability (DUS) tested in
accordance with UPOV requirements.
Course on DUS tests completed by participants
from the NSI, the Agricultural Technology
Transfer Centres and the Agriculture University.
1.2. Value in Cultivation and Use (VCU) tests for a new list of recommended cultivars and
testing of selected new public cultivars in an EU country for EU registration and/or PVP
registration
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                   Outcome
A total of 81 cultivars tested and registered for Albania-produced varieties are now protected
EU PVP registration.                               intellectual property and this may in turn
                                                   facilitate future research and economically
                                                   sustainable seed production.
Four specialists trained in VCU tests.                     Improved knowledge of available seed
Seed handbook and official catalogue of species            for varieties suitable of Albania among
and varieties published.                                   farmers and seed traders;




                                                                                                  18

A total of 82 varieties VCU tested.                      Information on specific varieties made
                                                         available to traders, producers and
                                                         farmers;
                                                         New varieties tested and approved for
                                                         Albanian agriculture.
1.3. National and international trainings and workshops on regulatory systems and seed
testing, including electrophoresis, etc
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Government staff completed a study tour to the Improved knowledge and capacity to continue
USA on regulatory systems.                        variety testing and certification of seed.
Electrophoresis training program completed by
two NSI staff from the in-vitro lab and two NSI
staff from the variety testing lab.
45 specialists trained in seed production, seed
testing and seed inspection.
14 courses and workshops with 285 producers
1.4. Support to the National Seed Institute to coordinate seed and variety testing
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Laboratory equipment for plant variety tests and         Seeds tested and certified by the NSI in
seed tests installed at NSI                              accordance with OECD requirements;
Three international training activities, one three       The regional labs cannot perform seed
week course, and a workshop on seed                      certification tests due to the current legal
certification, as well as training on seed variety       framework. An amendment to the law is
testing, completed by NSI staff.                         currently under preparation and this will
Labeling machine installed and used to label             shift the labs from the Directorate of
produced seed according to accepted standards.           Agriculture to the NSI, thus enabling the
Vehicles and equipment provided to regional              regional labs to certify seed.
offices and laboratories in Shkoder, Fier and
Korce to test and certify seed.
1.5. The survey, collection, and in situ preservation of endemic wild germplasm for medicinal
plants and wheat relatives
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Equipment for in-vitro tissue cultures and Gene bank and storage of collected plant
storage of vegetatively propagated material material developed securing the preservation of
installed.                                        Albania's agriculture biodiversity heritage and a
Germplasm collection and conservation carried key resource for future research.
out for 232 different accessions of 14 species;
subsequent report published in 2007, followed
by a University text book. A total of 3 major
publications related to genetic resources were
published.
1.7. Selected crop research institutes to produce good quality breeders' and super elite seed
and to continue variety testing and development activities
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Five research institutes equipped and trained to         An average of 45 percent increase of
produce elite seed (for seed production) and seed        high quality breeder seed per research
cleaning:                                                station;
- Lushnja Agric. Research institute,                     An average of 21% increase of varieties.
- Shkoder Maize institute,
- Korce Suger beet station,


                                                                                                  19

- Fushe-Kruja Forage institute,
- Tirana Vegetable & Potato institute.
1.8. Support to the Agricultural University to provide seed-related training, including special
courses for private companies
Key outputs (included in the PAD)                   Outcome
University seed laboratory equipped for use in             Seed   and   plant   production     related
seed-related courses, traininga and research.              courses absorbed in UAT curriculum;
14 two day workshops for seed traders and seed             Improved     understanding      of    seed
producers organized by the AUT. 2 three week               production and seed certification among
training courses for seed specialists, seed                seed producers and traders;
inspectors etc provided by the AUT.                        Capacity raised in the seed sector.
Four MSc students of the AUT specialized and
graduated on subjects related to the germplasm
collection.

A seed text book for the AUT courses was
published with project funds.
1.9. Restructuring of the agriculture research system (ARS)
Key outputs (not included in the PAD)               Outcome
Technical assistance provided to create proposal           ARS management more efficient through
aimed at making the ARS and the extension                  streamlining   of   administration     and
activities more responsive to farmer's needs and           moving key research departments closer
to improve the transfer of adapted technologies            to the areas where they are relevant (fe.
to smallholder farms.                                      vegetable and potato institute moved
Training of ATTC staff in research management.             from Tirana to Lushnja);
                                                           The ARS is now more cost efficient and
                                                           more budget is available for each ATTC.

     Land market development ­ Detailed outcome discussion
     Immovable Property Registration Sub-component
     Project activities under the IPRS sub-component remained limited to Phase I and the activities
     under Phase II, III, and IV are being completed under the LAMP project. The project itself
     has had some impacts on land market development in Albania when measured by improved
     efficiency and transparency of the land registration process. The rehabilitation of the Central
     IPRS Office in Tirana, the upgrading of District IPRS Offices, the installation of a ticketing
     system at the Central and Durres IPRS Offices, and the transparency training program
     completed by IPRS staff created a more user-friendly environment for clients. The Central
     Office in Tirana has now an increased number of service windows, including two express
     windows for business clients, as well as a waiting area for clients. The ticketing machine has
     improved overall customer service and reduced the opportunities for collusion by randomly
     assigning clients to service windows, while the public display of IPRS services and
     procedures provides better guidance to clients. The number of land transactions processed by
     the IPRS has increased by around 150 percent since 2001, which exceeds the 50 percent target
     set by the project. This result indicates that a growing importance is attached to formalizing
     land and property transactions and could be partly attributed to the project's efforts to
     improve the facilities and service quality of the Central and District IPRS offices. Indeed,
     transactions processed by the Central Office now reportedly number 300-400 per day.
     Registration of transactions of properties not previously registered now require 30 days
     (formerly 47), while for properties in blocks which have been newly surveyed 21 days are
     required, and 5-7 days for previously registered properties. All these averages are still far too


                                                                                                   20

     high, although only 48 hours are now required to register mortgages, possibly due to the new
     business focus. Customer satisfaction rates, though improving, continue to be low, in part
     perhaps due to continuing incentives to make informal payments to expedite processes.

     Land Consolidation Sub-component
     The land consolidation sub-component closed by the end of 2003, as originally scheduled.
     The Frakulla project, which served as a test case for the pilot project, had already been phased
     out by the end of 2002. By that time, it had become apparent that structural problems such as
     the absence of a Law on Land Consolidation, high land transfer taxes, and technical problems
     such as inaccurate land property information obtained under the First Registration Program
     (1993-2001), supported by the EU/PHARE and USAID, continued to undermine the sub-
     component's performance.7 The First Registration Program was suspended in 2001 after
     audits revealed significant problems in its organizational and financial structure and a high
     level of errors in the registry data.8

     Under this sub-component, the project financed the establishment of local land consolidation
     offices, legal and mediation assistance, informational seminars and meetings, and subsidized
     certain transaction costs (ie. registration and notary fees) to facilitate land consolidation in
     four pilot communes (Fiershegan, Frakulla, Suc and Pojan). Although a total of 189 land
     transactions were completed amounting to a total consolidated land size of 94.3 ha, increases
     in land transactions attributable to the project were minimal and there was no immediate
     ripple effect from the pilot areas notable in terms of volume of land market activity.


     It seems that the activities under the IPRS and land consolidation pilot sub-components did
     have some positive impacts, although not as large as originally foreseen, and this contributed
     to a land market taking root in Albania. National statistics show that rural land consolidation
     is taking place.


     Detailed outputs and outcomes
2. Land market development
2.1. Immovable Property Registration Sub-component
2.1.1. Rehabilitate the central IPRS office in Tirana and automate the IPRS Offices (Phase I).
Key Outputs (included in the PAD)                                 Outcome
Central Office building in Tirana rehabilitated                        More user friendly environment for IPRS
Furniture and technology equipment installed in                        clients;
Central and District IPRS offices, including                           Marginal        improvement            in     IPRS
computers, software, scanners, plotters, network                       efficiency. Procedures for registering
printers.                                                              property transactions continued to take


     7In June 2003, the following legal, regulatory and technical problems associated with land transactions were
     identified: high fees for conducting land transactions; the necessity to do formal subdivision of jointly owned
     parcels and reregister the subdivided parcels in order to convey the rights to one of the subdivided parcels and
     subsequently, to register the new consolidated parcel; the need to make several trips, over several weeks, to the
     IPRS office to carry out all of the transaction steps; the distribution of the land in contravention of Law 7501
     (this makes it difficult to confirm the rights to the land and hence leads to insecurity of the rights for the potential
     buyer/leaser); the uncertainty of the passing and enforcement of the proposed restitution law; and errors in the
     land information held by IPRS. Most of these problems are addressed by the follow-on Land Administration and
     Management Project (LAMP).
     8After a hiatus for re-adjustment of technical standards and contractual agreements, USAID continued the
     Program in 2002-2004 with a focus on 62 "economic priority" rural zones, 16 urban zones, and 58 rural zones.


                                                                                                                         21

Cadastre index maps as well as Hipoteka (est. 1.3          on average 30 days (formerly 47) and 2
million) and Kartela (est. 1.1 million) notary             to 4 visits of about 2 hours (formerly 2.5
deeds of the Central Office in Tirana scanned,             hours) to the IPRS to be completed;
indexed, and stored in an electronic database.             Substantial increase (150 percent) in the
Key Outputs (not included in the PAD                       number of registered land transactions
Ticketing system installed in Central Office in            from an estimated 120.000 in 2001 to
Tirana and the IPRS Office in Durres.                      almost 300.000 in 2006;
Transparency training program completed by                 Improved customer service. 51 percent of
IPRS staff.                                                IPRS customers satisfied with the service
                                                           at the IPRS in 2006 compared to 26
                                                           percent in 2004.

2.1.2. Design and develop a model for a fully automated IPRS through a pilot involving one
Regional IPRS office and one District office (Phase II)

2.1.3. Implement and test the model for data sharing between the two development sites via a wide
area network or via the Internet (Phase III)

2.1.4. Rollout of the system throughout Albania (Phase IV)

IPRS activities under the ASP project remained limited to Phase I (see 2.1.1.). The automation of
the IPRS is being completed as part of the LAMP project.

2.2. Land Consolidation Sub-component
2.2.1. Facilitating market transactions in land in pilot areas
Key Outputs (included in the PAD)                     Outcome
A total of 189 land transactions completed in the          Total consolidated land size of 94.3ha in
pilot communes, including 146 sales, 40 parcel             the pilot communes as a result of the
exchanges and 3 leases                                     completed land transactions. However,
A total of 2469 informational seminars and                 the level of transactions was not much
meetings organized with district and pilot                 beyond the level in non-pilot areas.
communes administrators, village leaders, and              Average parcel size and farm size in
villagers.                                                 Albania remain very small (0.25ha and
                                                           1.13ha respectively in 2006).
                                                           Improved awareness of land registration
                                                           procedures in pilot communes. However,
                                                           awareness has not extended beyond the
                                                           pilot areas.
2.2.2. Preparing a policy study on land consolidation
A policy study on the status of land reform and real property markets in Albania was prepared and
published by the IDA in 2006. The study incorporated the experience under the Land Market
Development Component. It provided an important analytical basis for the LAMP project..

     Market development ­ Detailed outcome discussion
     The project successfully improved access to proper market facilities and significantly
     facilitated the marketing of local agriculture products, in particular high-value products such
     as fruit, vegetables and potatoes. The volume of products traded in the four markets (Korce,
     Lushnja, Vlora, and Shkoder) increased from a daily average of 50 ton, in 2004, to 122 ton, in
     2008, and the average share of imported products remained below 50 percent throughout the
     project. Links between farmers and traders were strengthened as reflected in increased sales


                                                                                                  22

by farmers to central markets and traders in the area as opposed to farm-gate sales. The
diversity of agricultural products traded, in turn, increased from an average of 5 product
varieties in 2004 to 28 in 2008. Furthermore, hygienic conditions have improved substantially
at the four wholesale markets and farmers and traders now have access to relevant market
information through the display of daily prices at the markets. Aside from the wholesale
market in Vlore, all markets demonstrated financial sustainability and profitability by the end
of the project, generating substantial tax revenues for the respective municipalities.

However, there is one shortcoming in the component implementation, even though it is
considered an additional activity. To strengthen the sustainability of the market component,
FAO prepared a national plan for wholesale market development in Albania. The plan
entailed the adaptation of the legal framework and creation of a national wholesale market
agency (WMA) that would: (i) coordinate the markets, (ii) supervise existing market
companies, (iii) plan the development of future market infrastructure, and (iv) promote
Albanian agricultural products. The project had prepared all the required documentation (draft
statutes, terms of reference for key staff, business plan), including a draft law and regulations,
but the GoA had not adopted a legal framework governing wholesale markets by the end of
the project. This is in part explained by the inability of the MAFCP, the Ministry of Economy,
and the municipalities to reach a timely agreement on the valuation of the existing assets, the
transfer of which would establish a model of mixed state/municipal ownership and would be a
pre-requisite for the establishment of the WMA.

Modifying the market's ownership model
The project developed a different ownership model for the markets than was originally
foreseen. Under the market ownership and governance model developed for the project, the
municipalities in which wholesale markets were to be rehabilitated would be the only
shareholders in the market company after the transfer of assets by the project. The first two
market companies which were established under the project (Lushnje and Korca) followed
this model, but they soon became subject to political manipulations by the municipality.
Following a change in the local government in Lushnje in autumn of 2003, the existing
management of the market company and the proposed expansion of the market were
effectively blocked by the newly elected municipal council. Although the team's performance
was rated highly satisfactory during consecutive supervision missions, having been
thoroughly trained under the project, they were all dismissed in September 2006. The new
market director was not appropriate for the position, as was pointed out by the IDA team, and
subsequently the market profits declined (the director's appointment was later terminated
when a independent review found inconsistencies in the markets reporting of fee collection).

Subsequently, supervision activities focused on exploring ways to reinforce a state-level role
in the supervision of the market companies during and beyond project implementation. A new
ownership model was proposed by the IDA supervision team for the wholesale markets in
Vlore and Shkoder whereby the respective market companies would be registered under
commercial law as joint ventures between the Ministry of Economy and the municipalities
concerned.9 This model was also adopted by MAFCP for the markets it constructed with its
own budget resources in Kukes, Berat and Dibra.




9The Vlore and Shkoder wholesale markets were ultimately established with the Ministry of Economy as the
sole initial shareholder.



                                                                                                        23

     Detailed outputs and outcomes
3. Market development
3.1. Development of wholesale markets in Vlora, Lushnja, Korca and Skhodra
Key Outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Wholesale markets rehabilitated and operational      The production and marketing of local
in Lushnje (since June 2003), Korce (since           agricultural      products        increased
October 2004), Vlore (since August 2006), and        substantially, in particular for high-value
Shkoder (since December 2006).                       products such as fruit, vegetables, and
Up to date price information publicly displayed at   potatoes. The volume of agriculture
the markets in Vlora, Lushnja, Korca and             products traded in the markets increased
Skhodra.                                             from a daily average of 50 ton in 2004 to
Product fairs organized in Lushnje (tomato),         122 ton in 2008; with an average share of
Korce (apple), and Shkodra (agro-food).              imported products below 50 percent (37
                                                     percent in 2008);
                                                     Increased sales by farmers to central
                                                     markets and traders;
                                                     Diversity of agricultural products traded
                                                     increased from an average of 5 product
                                                     varieties in 2004 to 28 in 2008;
                                                     Improved quality of the agricultural
                                                     products traded due to better hygienic
                                                     conditions at the wholesale markets;
                                                     Total market profits amounted to $97,314
                                                     and total tax revenues for municipalities
                                                     amounted to $27,355 in 2006;
                                                     Price transparency improved as farmers
                                                     and traders can access relevant market
                                                     information.
3.2. The training of the municipalities and the market authority in the operation of the
markets
Key Outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Directors of the Lushnje, Korce, Vlore and Improved management of wholesale market
Shkoder wholesale market companies trained at operations.
the wholesale market of Fasano, Brindisi, Italy.
The Directors of the Korce, Shkoder, and Vlore
wholesale markets also participated in workshops
organized    by   the  CEI   Wholesale    Market
Foundation in Croatia, Ukraine, Romania, and
Italy.
Finance officers of the Lushnje, Korce, Vlore and Improved financial reporting of wholesale
Gjirokaster wholesale market companies trained.   market operations
3.3. Specific studies on marketing issues and bottlenecks in the marketing chain for certain
crops
Key Outputs (included in the PAD)                 Outcome
Marketing     studies   undertaken   before   the Adequate selection of wholesale market
rehabilitation of each of the four selected investments, including market sites and
wholesale markets.                                market size.




                                                                                             24

    Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement ­ Detailed outcome
    discussion
    The project successfully completed 136 of 14510 grants awarded to various producer groups
    and it has been estimated that over 20,000 farmers have been exposed to new technologies
    through technology transfer activities. According to the project completion survey, there were
    emulators of the technologies in around half the villages and extrapolation of the results
    estimates that around 400 emulators could be attributed to the project. The survey also shows
    that as much as 85 percent of CGP beneficiaries have experienced an increase in yearly
    income (30 percent experienced increases of more then 10 percent). Lastly, a wide range of
    new technologies has been introduced to farmers through the project's competitive grants
    program. The CGP procedures are being used as a model for similar grants programs in the
    ECA region, including Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Kazakhstan. In addition, the MAFCP
    continues to build on the success of the CGP and has chosen to use an investment grant model
    for the GoA's $10 million agriculture support program. They have also incorporated and
    improved the CGP procedures in their selection procedures.

    Detailed outputs and outcomes
4. Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
Key Outputs (included in the PAD)                        Outcome
11 rounds with 145 grant winners, with 136                        Estimated 700 people involved in grants
successfully completed grants out of 139. For                     Over 20,000 people exposed to new
each grant a number of technology transfer                        technologies through field visits, farmer
activities were organized, these included: field                  workshops, and farmer held courses.
days,    workshops,       farmer     held     courses             Estimated over 400 emulators of grant
information      leaflets,   instruction      leaflets,           funded technologies, though the actual
posters, and information spots on TV.                             figure is likely to be higher.
4 national workshops organized
Book published describing all the grants




    10 145 grants were awarded, 6 grants were canceled and 3 were not completed.



                                                                                                        25

                                        Project management

The project suffered serious delays and setbacks during the final two years of the project life,
partly caused by staff replacements. The main problems stem from appointing replacements
that did not have sufficient capacity and experience to meet the demands of IDA projects and
projects of such complicated nature as the ASP. While the IDA team expressed reservations
on these selections there was not sufficient cause not to accept them. These selections caused
delays as the new staff took a long time to understand the project and the IDA procedures, or
were not results oriented.

The former ASP Director was investigated by the High State Audit and relieved of his duties
in July 2006. He is currently contesting this in court. Following the appointment of the new
project director, the disbursement and the project implementation slowed to a near halt while
the new director tried to establish himself. Upon his appointment he fired the interpreter, on
unclear grounds, and the status of the remaining staff was uncertain until the mission of
September-November 2006. At that time, project disbursement had slowed significantly and
the IDA team gave a number of milestones to be achieved if the project should continue. The
team also proposed to strengthen project management with a Deputy Director11 and to
increase supervision with staff based in the World Bank Country Office in Albania. In the
subsequent period disbursements increased, but the project management only partially
improved. While the relationship in regards to the implementation of the seed and CGP
component remained open and collaborative, transparency with respect to the activities under
the market component declined substantially. In particular, the process for the proposed
construction of an additional wholesale market in Gjirokaster proved to be very problematic
(see also 2.2). What follows are the most serious examples of mis-management that occurred
during the project.

Inability to produce a transparent selection procedure for the private operator needed
for the packaging and grading center at Lushnje wholesale market.
The project funded technical assistance to prepare a design and a business plan for a
packaging and grading (P&G) center at the Lushnje wholesale market. The business plan for
the P&G center stipulated that it would be leased by a private operator and that this operator
would provide input to the final design. A satisfactory, transparent procedure for selecting a
private operator for the P&G center was not produced, nor was the operator ever selected,
despite this being an agreed action as early as October 2005. The PMU produced a barely
acceptable action plan and an unnecessarily complicated and un-transparent selection
procedure in June 2007. The IDA team asked for several clarifications, but these were never
received before the activity was canceled.

The activity was canceled after a first and second failed attempt to select an operator in late
June 2007 because the IDA team judged that it was unlikely that the construction of the P&G
center would be finished before project closing. The process failed due to several reasons. In
addition to the complicated selection procedure, the PMU did not perform adequate market
research to find interested entrepreneurs and subsequently did not set the financial
requirements for applicants at an appropriate level. If the PMU had acted earlier, there would
have been more time to make the business package more attractive, streamline the



11The head of the CGP secretariat assumed this role in parallel with her regular duties. She had already proved
her competence and reliability in the CGP.



                                                                                                              26

complicated selection procedures, and advertise more broadly. This would most likely have
enabled the project to find a suitable operator.

Neglecting to supervise and take action on problems arising at the Girokaster market
construction site
The PMU neglected to supervise properly the construction of the Gjrokaster market and failed
to take action on issues that delayed the site preparation and construction works. The PMU
recurrently misrepresented issues and delays to the IDA team. Numerous field visits were
conducted by Country Office staff and only at these visits were the problems identified.
Problems which the PMU should have addressed included:
                 The severe delay by the Municipality in preparing and leveling the proposed
                 construction site;
                 The fact that the site was not prepared despite the fact that IDA had been
                 provided with a letter stating that the site was ready for construction;
                 The severe delay of establishing an electric connection by the Albanian
                 National Power Company (KESH), causing extra costs for the constructor;
                 The inability of the municipality to finalize the leveling so that ground works,
                 such as installing water/sewer pipes and asphalting, could be started;
                 Discrepancies between actual construction and the bill of quantities of the
                 contract, e.g. 14 stores being built instead of 12 as specified in the contract.

These issues were never reported by the PMU to the IDA team, and reportedly the MAFCP
received equally inaccurate information. This effectively undermined the team's ability to
work out solutions with the PMU and the municipality. Reporting on the market progress
grew less and less transparent as credit closure approached, to the point where further IDA
investment in the Gjirokaster market became impossible. The IDA team sent an independent
engineer to evaluate the state of the construction and based on her evaluation and the final, "as
built" bill of quantities delivered by the PMU, it was concluded that 60% of the works had
been completed. It should be mentioned that the final bill of quantities included works
amounting to ALL 6,257,527 that were completed after contract closing (February 15, 2008).
This was later confirmed verbally by the construction supervising firm in a meeting with the
IDA team and the PMU. The IDA contribution (80%) of these funds was returned to IDA.

Inability to supervise consultant output for the electronic gate system
It was proposed to install an electronic gate system in the four wholesale markets to improve
collection of entrance fees. However, the PMU was unable to supervise the production of
technical specifications of adequate quality and delayed the procurement process to the point
where the activity was canceled because it could not be completed before project closure.

Lack of timely planning for additional funds
Despite substantial remaining funds at the beginning of 2007, the PMU did not take action to
plan for the use of these funds. The IDA team repeatedly asked for a plan for the remaining
funds, but the PMU did not produce such a plan until it was explicitly required for the
extension request in July 2007. However, by this time reallocation was no longer possible12
and the investments were thus limited by the categories. The possibility to efficiently use the
remaining funds was severely constrained by this.




12The Albanian regulations governing reallocations and other amendments to the credit agreement require the
approval of the Council of Ministers. Typically this whole process takes 4-6 months.


                                                                                                           27

Inability to provide satisfactory completion reports for all components.
The IDA team received excellent completion reports for the CGP and the seed components,
but did not receive a satisfactory report from the market component or any report from
procurement and project management despite repeated requests. Nor did the PMU follow up
on the IPRS report that the IDA team had a number of comments on. These are only some of
the agreed actions from the final Aide Memoire that were not performed. The IDA team is
still waiting for a response from the PMU concerning these actions.

Lack of ownership for project completion report
Finally, no member of the PMU or representative of the Government participated in the
scheduled meeting to discuss this ICRs finding. Written comments were received only much
later.

                                             Procurement
Procurement under the project has generally been satisfactory, but the quality declined along
with general project management as the project approached closing. In several cases the
procurement procedures and guidelines13 were not adequately followed and in other cases the
PMU procurement specialist did not respond or produce outputs in a timely manner or of
adequate quality. This caused delays in implementation and payments.

During the course of the project, there were several cases of deviations from the procurement
procedures and guidelines. Each case was painstakingly reviewed by the IDA team and this
caused delays. Listed below are some recent examples:
   · The extension of the Gjirokaster market construction contract was not cleared. At
      the contract expiry, the PMU extended the duration of works contract without the prior
      consent of the IDA team, although this contract was above the prior review threshold.
      The extension was not accepted and IDA will finance only the works completed by
      February 15, 2008.
   · Breach of confidentiality during the bid evaluation. During the evaluation process
      for the construction of the Gjirokaster market, the IDA team received complaints about
      meetings between the PMU had bidders during the evaluation of bids. According to the
      complaints, a bidder was wrongly informed that they had won the bid and subsequently
      complained when the contract was awarded to another firm. The IDA team informed the
      PMU that such practices are not in line with Bank procurement guidelines. In reviewing
      this issue, other inconsistencies where discovered which caused further delay while they
      were investigated.
   · Failure to ask IDA clearance on draft contract subject to prior review. The draft
      contract for the consultant for the Project Completion Survey (PCS), Arij Dekker, was
      not submitted to IDA for prior review although it is above the prior review threshold.
      This also caused significant delays because the contract contained the wrong terms of
      reference.
   · Cancellation of ongoing procurement process without IDA clearance. During the
      selection of a local consultant for CGP evaluation, the PMU cancelled the process and
      re-started without prior approval from IDA and without providing satisfactory
      justification. This is not in accordance with the provisions of the consultant guidelines.




13Procurement guidelines refer to Guidelines ­ procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits, May 2004, and
Guidelines- selection and employment of consultants by World Bank Borrowers, May 2004.



                                                                                                        28

In addition to the above examples, there were numerous cases when the procurement
specialist of the PMU failed to provide timely and satisfactory responses to the IDA team's
requests for information regarding procurement issues, or produced outputs that were full of
mistakes. Below are some examples:
  · Mistakes in contract and failure to respond to IDA requests in a timely fashion. In
     addition to not requesting IDA clearance for the PCS contract, the PMU's procurement
     specialist attached the wrong ToR to the contract. The attached ToR clearly stated that it
     was a draft copy for a different activity and the timeframe and payment schedule did not
     match what was stated in the contract. IDA asked for the contract to be amended to
     correct this and other issues in October 2007 and, after repeated requests and
     corrections of re-submitted documents, the contract amendment was found of
     acceptable quality in January 2008.
  · Delays in evaluation due to unqualified evaluation committee members. The
     evaluation committee for the CGP (local) consultancy did not include any technical
     experts from the MAFCP, despite that this was expressly requested by IDA. The
     evaluation report was not accepted and the shortlist had to be re-evaluated, this time
     with participation by MAFCP experts. Nevertheless, this situation and the delay in
     providing supporting documentation (evaluation reports and CVs) for IDA's review
     delayed the process.
  · Disregard for IDA recommendations. The new PMU Director (hired in 2006) signed
     a 2 year contract contrary to IDA's recommendation to offer him a 3-month
     probationary contract. The revised evaluation report and contract were not submitted for
     3 months, despite repeated requests from the Bank.




                                                                                           29

Land claim issues at Gjirokaster
The claim for restitution of parts of the land where the Gjirokaster WM is now being constructed has affected
neither implementation, nor impact of the project. However, it remains a serious issue that will be followed up
by the IDA social safeguards specialist and the resident mission in Tirana. It figures frequently in the last Aide
Memoires and deserves to be treated in the ICR.

Background
The IDA received a letter on February 1, 2008, which indicated that the Gjirokaster market was being
constructed on the land of Mr. Nesip Skenduli and Mr. Edmond Kokalari. The IDA responded in writing and had
an initial meeting with the Mr. Kokalari. The IDA formally asked the Government to investigate this matter and
propose a solution.

Timeline
(Note that the land claim is registered almost a year after the decision to construct the market)
April 2006 - Aide Memoire, "The IDA team accepts the MAFCP's request to build a new wholesale market in
Gjirokastra estimated to cost about US$500,000. The design, construction, and set-up of the market will need to
be undertaken under a rigid schedule as there are 18 months left before project closing (in December 2007)".
September 19, 2006 - The municipality has signed the preliminary agreement for the WM.
October 6, 2006 - The municipal council takes the decision to build market
October 9, 2006 - Building permit is issued for the market. The license is issued upon decision by the K.R.R.T.
(Republic of Albania Territorial Adjustment council) no. 06, dated 9 October 2006. Note that this document was
not submitted to the IDA until June/July, 2007
February 15, 2007 - The muncipality confirms its commitment and that the market design is approved. The
design included the map of the site. "In the Meeting of the Municipality Council held on October 20, 2006 and
in the meeting of the Urban and Territory Regulation Council held afterwards, the construction of the new
wholesale market for fruits and vegetables has been approved for the part of the design, which includes 12
covered stores and 16 open trading places."
February 28, 2007 ­ IDA team provides a N.O. to proceed with procurement, with the explicit condition that
the site would be prepared by the time of contract signing.
May 30, 2007 - The previous N.O is put on hold when the IDA team found the site preparation unfinished.
July 15th, 2007 - IDA team requests the minutes from handover of the site to the constructor
What is actually received is the minutes, dated July 3, 2007, of the picketing of the site. The municipality,
constructor and town-planning inspector are present
July 16, 2007 - The Regional Agency registers the claim for Land Restitution on the market site along with
claims for three neighboring parcels.
August 7, 2007 - Construction is cleared to start after the constructor provides written confirmation that the site
is ready for works to begin. The IDA has at this point not received any information that the land is being
claimed.
October 2, 2007 - The Regional Agency grants Mr. Kokalari et al the ownership of the land and referred the
matter to the Central Agency who provides information to the land registration office. The registration process is
still ongoing.
December 28, 2007 - the case is brought to the court to halt the construction. The municipality does not show up
at the hearing. The court rules in favor of Mr. Kokalari et al, but the municipality appeals.
February 15,2008 - The contract for the works is ended. The IDA requests a report of the value of the works
finished to date.
Since then the MAFCP received a statement from Mr. Kokalari et al indicating that they do not wish to interfere
with the market construction, but would rather negotiate remuneration for the land. The MAFCP is reportedly
pursuing a solution that will be satisfactory to all involved parties.

Conclusion
There is no blame on either the GoA or the PMU for not foreseeing this problem. Land claims such as this are
commonly occurring in Albania and there was no claim on what was registered as public land when the market
site was chosen.

The IDA team and the World Bank resident mission in Albania followed up immediately on the issue and
demanded a time bound action plan from the Government. The Government has responded that the Ministry of
Interior and the Agency of Land Restitution will investigate the claim thoroughly, but has not yet provided any
specified plan on how this issue will be resolved. The IDA's monitoring will continue.




                                                                                                                 30

                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic analysis is performed separately for each individual component with a view to
tailor the respective analyses to the different nature of the components and the available data.
This approach lends a higher degree of accuracy to the analysis as it tailors the methodology
to the data as opposed to the other way around.

Component 1 - Seed Market Develpment
The project had a major impact on the Albanian seed sector, but measuring this impact is
difficult as there are many factors outside the project scope that are likely to have contributed
to improved seed availability and better seed quality. In view of this and the limited available
data, the analysis for this Component is based on the yield increase necessary for the project
investment to break-even. A Net Present Value (NPV) calculation over a 10-year period using
2006 prices found that an increase of 6.6 kg/ha for cereals would equal the value of the total
project investment of US$1,690,00014 (discounted at an opportunity cost of capital assumed at
10 percent). It is not unlikely that the project contributed to an increase of 6.6 kg/ha or higher.
The Project Completion Survey (PCS) conducted in 2006 found that the use of certified seed
increased significantly during the life of the project from almost none to 70% of farmers. It
also shows that yields from certified seed are higher compared to uncertified seed, e.g. around
35% (945kg/ha) higher for maize. It can thus reasonably be assumed that project investments
are likely to have had an economic impact that surpasses the project investment. It must also
be underlined that the calculations presented above do not take into account the impact on
yields of high value crops such as vegetables and fruits. Use of certified seedlings not only
enhances the quantity but also the quality of these crops to a larger degree than for cereals.

Component 2 ­ Land Market Development
The minimum IRR of project activities under this Component is estimated at 16%, whereas
the upper bound of the IRR is estimated at 47%. The IRR is based on a total investment cost
of US$ 2 million over a 10-year period discounted at an opportunity cost of capital assumed at
10 percent. The project benefits were calculated strictly by valuing the time efficiency gains
observed at the IPRS Offices during the project. The Project Completion Survey (2006)
indicated that the median number of hours spent at the IPRS dropped from 2.5 to 2 hours per
visit during the period 2004-2006, while the median number of visits to the IPRS necessary to
complete a transaction remained constant at 3. In order to complete the analysis for the "with
project' scenario, the analysis assumes that: (i) IPRS transactions during the period 2007-
2011 increase at an annual rate of 14%15; (ii) the value of 1 hour is US$3.216; and (ii) there
are no additional time efficiency gains in the period 2007-2011. For the "without project'
scenario, the analysis assumes that there will be no time efficiency gains throughout the 10-
year period.




14The calculation is based on INSTAT data for 2006. The total area grown with cereals was 143,000 ha and the
average cereal price was estimated to be US$ 0.29/kg. The data from 2006 was judged more accurate than more
recent data available at the time of writing.
15Average annual growth rate in IPRS transactions during the period 2004-2006 was 14%
16Average hourly wage in Albania (2006) calculated from the average annual wages for different professional
categories presented in World Bank (2008), Albania: Growth, Migration and Poverty Reduction ­ A Poverty
Assessment, p4


                                                                                                           31

As described in detail in Annex 2, project investments under this component targeted mainly
the Central Office in Tirana. When only time efficiency gains at the Central Office in Tirana
are taken into consideration, the IRR of project investments under this Component is
estimated at 16%. The analysis assumes that annual IPRS transactions at the Tirana Central
Office as a share of total IPRS transactions will average 23% in the period 2007-2011.17
When time efficiency gains in both the Central and District IPRS Offices are taken into
consideration, the IRR is estimated at 47%. Both estimates are rather conservative as the
analysis does not account for positive spill-over effects of formal land and property
transactions to the broader economy in Albania. However, considering the overall limited
project interventions in the IPRS District Offices, the actual IRR is likely to be lower than the
estimated upper bound.

Component 3 ­ Markets Development
The minimum IRR of project activities under this component is estimated at 8%, whereas the
upper bound of the IRR is estimated at 81%. The IRR is calculated for project investments in
the Lushnje wholesale market under this Component over a 10-year period discounted at an
opportunity cost of capital assumed at 10 percent. The Lushnje wholesale market was selected
as the reference market for the analysis as it was the first market to be rehabilitated under the
project (in 2002) and the only market rehabilitated under the project for which consistent
annual data have been collected and recorded on volumes and prices of the agricultural
products traded, the number of market users, and revenue streams generated for both the
market company and the Municipality.

The IRR is based on a total investment cost of US$670.000. This figure comprises the project
investments in the Lushnje wholesale market (US$545.000) and the estimated value of the
land of the market site (US$125.000) in 2002. The project benefits were calculated using: (i)
the annual figures on net market company profits and profit tax revenues for the Municipality
recorded in the Project Completion Report (2008); and (ii) the value of the annual volumes of
agricultural products traded at the Lushnje wholesale market. In order to complete the
analysis for the "with project' scenario, the analysis assumes that during the period 2008-
2012: (i) net market company profits grow at an annual rate of 5%18; (ii) the profit tax rate
remains constant at 27%; and (iii) value of annual volumes traded amounts to
US$32.630.00019. For the "without project" scenario, the analysis assumes that: (i) there will
be no wholesale market investments in Lushnje throughout the 10-year period; and (ii) the
value of annual volumes traded in the Lushnje Municipality will grow at an annual rate of
2.16% during the period 2003-2012.20




17IPRS transactions at the Central Office in Tirana as a share of total IPRS transactions averaged 23% in the
period 2004-2007.
18Annual growth rate in market company profits averaged 5% in the period 2003-2007.
19Annual value of volumes traded at the Lushnje wholesale market averaged US$32.630.000 in the period 2003-
2007
20Annual growth in agriculture value added in Albania averaged 2.16% in the period 2000-2005


                                                                                                             32

When only the benefit streams to the market company (net profits) and the Municipality
(profit tax) are taken into account, the IRR of project investments under this Component is
estimated at 8%. By capturing exclusively cash revenues generated for public authorities, this
figure represents the minimum IRR of project investments. When the value of annual volumes
of agricultural products traded are included in the analysis, the IRR of project investments is
estimated at 81%. This figure captures the project's broader impact on the agriculture sector
and constitutes an estimated upper bound of the IRR. It is likely that the actual IRR of this
Component is lower than this upper bound when the performance of the three other wholesale
markets is included in the analysis. Considering that the Lushnje wholesale market was the
first market to be rehabilitated under the project, it is likely to have benefited from a
substantial "first-mover advantage".

Component 4 ­ Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement
The average IRR is estimated at 17% and is calculated for a random sample of grants over a
10-year period discounted at an opportunity cost of capital assumed at 10 percent. The
analysis is based on the investment (grant, grantee contribution and cost of monitoring) and
the estimated incremental gains over a 10-year period (following first grant investment). The
incremental gain is the profit/loss with the project minus the profit/loss without the project.
The analysis made the following assumptions:
(i)     The profit/loss of both scenarios is estimated to grow according to the national
        productivity increase factor, as calculated in the box below;
(ii)    The profit/loss without the project is the same as profit/loss before the project, i.e.
        before grant award;
(iii)   The investments would have occurred without the project, only much later. Therefore,
        in the "without project" scenario all investments will occur ten years later, i.e. around
        2011 ­ 2017;
(iv)    If the proposed grant activity was already being pursued before the grant process, but
        was losing more than US$1000 per year, we will assume in the without-project case
        that the net profit was zero (rather than negative), since eventually that business
        activity would have had to close down without the improvements provided by the
        grant.




                                                                                                33

Annual productivity increase factor
The analysis is based on a basket of common Albanian crops, such as cereals, forage crops, vegetables, potatoes,
sunflower, fruit trees, olives and vineyards. The yield increases (or decrease) for these crops were indexed from
1991 to 2006, using 1991 as pin, giving a relative yield change, independent of crop type. Based on the average
index a logarithmic trend line was plotted in the chart below making extrapolations possible using the trend line
function (function a). The logarithmic model was used because this is likely to be a good representation of
reality, i.e. the increase in yields will grow smaller as the maximum yields are approached. The derivative
function (b) of the yield function will be used to estimate the annual productivity increase factor.

Figure: Annual yield increase index plotted with a logarithmic trend line, for the period 1991-2006

                                     Average Productivity Increase since 1991



      esaercni
              ytivit                                    y = 0.5011Ln(x) + 0.8161

                    oduc
                        pr
                          of
                            x

                             ndeI

                                                      Years 1991-2006


Yields index trend line function (a) and its derivative function (b).
(a)                              f (x) = y = 0.5011× Ln(x) + 0.8161
                                              1
(b)                              y'= 0.5011×
                                              x




                                                                                                               34

                  Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
Names                            Title                                               Unit
Lending
Peter Bowbrick                   Marketing Specialist
Malcolm Childress                Land Specialist
John Cole                        Competitive Grant Specialist
Jennifer Corso,                  Program Assistant                                   ECSSD
Ivan Ford                        Land Specialist
Junko Funahashi                  Legal Counsel                                       ECSSD
David Gisselquist                Seed Policy Specialist
Barry Greengrass                 Seed Legislation
Ibrahim Hackaj                   Agricultural Specialist                             ECSSD
Sarah Leigh Hammill              Program Assistant                                   ECSSD
Lynn Holstein                    Land Specialist                                     ECSSD
Subramaniam Janakiram            Agricultural Marketing Specialist                   ECSSD
Frauke Jungbluth                 Agriculture economist                               ECSSD
Naushad Khan                     Procurement Specialist                              ECSPS
Severin Kodderitzsch             Economist, Task Team Leader                         ECSSD
Toro Konishi                     Economist                                           ECSSD
Niles Louwaars                   Seed Sector Specialist

David Lugg                       Agronomist/ Community
                                 Development
Joseph Matti                     Extension Specialist
Rohit Mehta                      Disbursement                                        ECSPS
Sandro Zanus Michiei             Financial Management Specialist                     ECSPS
Jaime Novoa                      Agricultural Marketing Specialist
Robert Robertson                 Land Tenure Specialist
V. P. Singh                      Seed Technology Specialist
Hermine de Soto                  Sociologist                                         ECSSD

Roy Southworth                   Agriculture economist, Task Team
                                 Leader                                              ECSSD




                                                         35

                 Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




Supervision/ICR
Gavin Adlington                 Land Specialist                                       ECSSD
Amelia Branczik                 Consultant                                            ECSSD
Ivan Ford                       Land Specialist                                       ECSSD
Elona Gjika                     Financial Management Specialist                       ECSPS
Joseph Goldberg                 Senior Operations Consultant                          ECSSD
Ibrahim Hackaj                  Senior Operations Officer                             ECSSD
Emmanuel Hidier                 Marketing Specialist                                   FAO
Frauke Jungbluth                Task Team Leader                                      ECSSD
Naushad Kahn                    Procurement Specialist                                ECSPS
Julian Lampietti                Task Team Leader                                      ECSSD
David Lugg                      Agriculture Specialist                                 FAO
Belita Manka                    Procurement Analyst                                   ECSPS
Silvia Mauri                    Agriculture Consultant                                ECSSD
Natalia Otel                    Junior Professional Associate                         ECSSD
Marco Sibani                    Marketing Specialist                                  ECSSD
Roy Southworth                  Task Team Leader                                      ECSSD
Philip Van der Celen            Junior Professional Associate                         ECSSD
Juergen Venema                  Agriculture Economist                                 ECSSD
Carl-Fredrik von Essen          Junior Professional Officer                           ECSSD




                                                        36

                 Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                               No. of staff weeks                    US$ Thousands (including
                                                                                     travel and consultant costs)

Lending
  FY98                                                                                               13.19
  FY99                                                                                             134.77
  FY00                                                    37                                       198.24
  FY01                                                    41                                       158.81
  FY02                                                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                                                 0.00
                                Total:                    78                                       505.01
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                                                 0.00
  FY99                                                                                                 0.95
  FY00                                                      1                                          0.14
  FY01                                                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                    27                                       153.61
  FY03                                                    38                                       155.12
  FY04                                                    29                                       133.32
  FY05                                                    29                                       178.58
  FY06                                                    25                                       117.14
  FY07                                                    22                                       148.56
  FY08                                                      7                                        36.98
                                Total:                   178                                       924.40




                                                        37

                  Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The Project Completion Survey (PCS) was completed in 2007, five months before the projects
original closing date (December 31, 2007). The PCS captured some of the project impacts and,
in addition, contains interesting information on the situation in the Albanian agriculture sector
and the rural areas. It covers most of the beneficiaries of the project but, as is pointed out in the
introduction of the PCS, many of the project impacts have not reached their full potential yet.

Beneficiaries of the project
The beneficiaries of the project as envisioned in the project design are detailed in the table
below. The PCS targets the beneficiaries of each component, e.g. farmer survey, seed trader
survey, market trader survey, etc.
Target group / Foreseen benefits
Beneficiaries
Component 1 - Seed Market Development
Smallholder       Increased availability of improved seeds and saplings would generate higher
farmers ­         farm incomes through improved farm productivity. Increased availability of
Primary           new varieties (including vine and tree saplings) would have a particularly
beneficiary       strong impact for vegetables, fruits, vineyards, and other high value
                  agricultural activities suitable for small, intensively cultivated farms.
Seed traders /    The Seed traders and producers benefited directly from the project's training
producers ­       activities. Increased availability of elite seed for seed production would
Primary &         increase ability to produce seed for sale. Certification, training and proper
Secondary         regulatory framework, including labeling, would improve customer trust,
beneficiary       reducing transaction cost for both parties. The increased market for
                  domestically produced seed could in turn benefit farmers who can diversify
                  into commercial seed production.
Component 2 ­ Land Market Development
Smallholder       A more efficient land market would provide benefits to the farming
farmers ­         community by facilitating the consolidation of agricultural land, which leads
Primary           to the establishment of larger, more efficient farms. In addition, secure land
beneficiary       rights would improve farmer's access to credit by foster wider use of land as
                  collateral.
Component 3 ­ Market Development
Smallholder       Investments in market infrastructure would help farmers obtain better prices
farmers and       for their products due to increased competition among buyers, improve the
farming           quality of traded products, and increase marketing opportunities for a broad
communities ­     range of agricultural commodities. These developments would lead to higher
Primary           incomes in farming communities.
beneficiaries
Urban             Urban consumers would benefit through better quality and a wider range of
consumers ­       agricultural products available on the market.
Secondary
beneficiary
Selected          By collecting revenues from the wholesale market and investing profits in
Municipalities    additional market facilities, wholesale market development would have an
- Secondary       impact on the overall market infrastructure in the selected municipalities.
beneficiary
Traders ­         Traders would benefit from greater access to a diversity of quality agriculture




                                                         38

                  Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




Secondary         products and reduced transaction costs. The concentration of agriculture
beneficiary       produce would also facilitate efforts to package and grade the produce,
                  increasing value for both farmers and traders.
Component 4 ­ Community-based Rural Productivity and Marketing Improvement*
Smallholder       Although each grant was envisioned to reach a farmer group consisting of 4-5
farmers and       individuals, benefits would reach beyond the direct grant recipients as
farming           demonstrations and other knowledge transfer activities would enable farmers
communities ­     beyond the initial farmer group to adopt the new technologies.
Primary
beneficiaries
Technical         The market for private and public service providers would improve through
service           linkages created by the project between technical specialists and farmers.
providers ­
Secondary
beneficiary
*) Competitive Grants Program (CGP), see section 1.5.

For full description of beneficiary survey, see the PCS.




                                                         39

               Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                                      40

                     Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




             Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR

                                         REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
                              MINSITRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD
                                    AND CONSUMER PROTECTION
                                                          DPPB
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Address: "Sheshi Skenderbej", Nr 2, Tirana                                       Tel/Fax: +355 4 228355

No/ 3165 Prot.
                                                                                 Tirana, on 1.07.2008

To:              Mrs Greta Minxhozi
                  Acting Country Manager
                  World Bank Office Tirana

Subject:         Comments on the draft report of the World Bank regarding the Agriculture
                 Services Project (P054736)



Honourable Madam,

Firstly, please allow me to thank the World Bank Office for the financial and technical support
that it has provided during all these years to the development of the Albanian agriculture and
agro-industry sectors, in the framework of different projects. One of the most important
projects for this sector is the Agriculture Service Project, which despite of the difficulties and
problems encountered during its implementation, has had a very positive impact on the
development of the sector, including the improvement of the product trading conditions,
improvement of the production of seeds and seedlings, improvement of the production
technologies and small scale processing of products, etc.

In this context, with pleasure we have observed that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Consumer Protection likewise the World Bank Office (as highlighted in the Final Draft Report)
conclude that that the project has achieved its overall objectives in a satisfactory level.
However, these results would be much higher if a series of difficulties encountered in different
phases of the project implementation would have been rightly solved on basis of a better
cooperation and well understanding between the different actors/stakeholders involved in the
project.

The Final Draft Report of the project presents a relatively good/positive overview of the
overall progress and results of this project as well as for specific components. However, aiming
at contributing to the further improvement of some of the analysis reflected in the Draft Report
and aiming at a more complete and realistic final evaluation, we would like to present herewith
some comments and recommendations to be taken into consideration before the Final Report of
this project is finalised.

    The Report should taken into consideration the fact that the Project as of its formulation,
    was very complex and included a large number of components and different activities,
    which often were not properly connected/inter-related with each other. Even though the




                                                            41

               Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




complexity is mentioned in the report, we are of the opinion that the difficulties/challenges
and the consequences in different phases of the project implementation should be better
taken into consideration when writing the respective evaluation.

We are of the opinion that the Report needs a review of the logical compliance between
different parts of it. For example, the evaluation indicating that the results have been
achieved in a level below (less than) optimal, is contradictory to the overall evaluation
indicating that the overall results and impact of the project are evaluated as satisfactory.

Even though, being considered as first experiences in Albania, the wholesale markets
established/developed in the framework of this project, have provided satisfactory results.
Many of the problems that these markets are facing today, would have been eliminated if
the local complexity context/background in which they have been established would have
been considered more carefully since the very first phases of the establishment/construction
of this model. In this framework, apart of the difficulties encountered in the local level, a
higher/better performance of the international expertise brought in this project regarding
the wholesale markets would have contributed in finding more practical and efficient
solutions.

The evaluation of the level of performance in the project management (indicated relatively
not satisfactory) seems unrealistic and mainly influenced by some opinions,
misunderstandings and misinterpretations, rather than by concrete results of the project.
The report seems that in a very inappropriate way makes an critical analysis of the
management of the last two years, rather than an overall evaluation of the management
during the whole life of the project comparing it to its results. As we have underlined
before, the change of the leading project staff consisted only in the change of the Director
of the PMU (based on the report of the High State Audit, the recommendations of which
are mandatory to be implemented), while the rest of the management staff has not changed
in the last two years as indicated in the report. The control/audit, for the first period and its
findings, carried out by the HAS (High State Audit) ­ which is the highest control authority
in Albania ­ do not justify such a very differentiated evaluation between the two phases.
However, we are convinced that if there were a higher level of cooperation and mutual
well-understanding between the project management staff and the support and supervisory
staff of the World Bank, such misunderstandings and misinterpretations would have been
eliminated and would have not influenced the overall performance of the project.

We are of the opinion that the general evaluation of the borrower to a certain extent as
satisfactory is low and seems that it does not take into consideration the complexity of the
context in which this project is implemented. Even though the general context in which the
project has been implemented is very complex and has caused a lot of challenges, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Protection, other central governmental
institutions and the Project Management Unit have made considerable and
continuous/constant efforts to find solutions for such difficulties.

Expressing our opinions and evaluations for the draft report in general, we hope that our
comments will be taken into consideration in the completion of the final report. We remain
available to discuss the report in a convenient time for you. Moreover, we hope that the
lessons learned from this project will be good basis for a higher performance and a closer
cooperation in the future projects.




                                                      42

                 Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




Please, Mrs Minxhozi, accept the assurances of our highest consideration.

With respect,

(signed & sealed)

Jemin Gjana
MINISTER




                                                        43

                     Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




                                         REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
                                         MINSITRY OF FINANCE
                                GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF DEBT
               Directorate of the Contracted Debt for Foreign Financed Projects
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

No/ 6818/1 Prot.
                                                                                 Tirana, on 29.07.2008

To:               Mrs Camille Naumah
                  Country Manager
                  World Bank Office
                 Tirana

Subject:         Agriculture Services Project, loan no. 3522 ALB



The implementation of the Agriculture Service Project is a project that will provide a big
contribution in establishing an environment that supports the growth of economic activities in
our country as well as the increase of the incomes and reduction of the poverty in the rural
areas. Moreover, the implementation of this project in its specific elements like: development
of seeds market, development of the land market, development of the products market,
improvement of the market based on the community in the rural areas and the marketing,
defining of the risk factors associated with the allocation of funds according to the above
mentioned components, is expected to increase the efficiency of its implementation.

When this project was drafted, it appeared to be quite complex and include a large number of
component/elements and different activities. The project could have progressed more if there
were a higher performance of the international expertise regarding the wholesale markets. Such
an expertise would contribute in finding more practical and efficient solutions.

Herewith enclosed, we are listing the comments of the Ministry of Finance regarding the above
mentioned project:

    1. In the last phase of implementation, the project was accompanied by a significative
         discordance/disparity in communication between the project implementing unit (PIU)
         and World Bank, which was generated by the irregular/inappropriate postponement of
         the works contract by the PIU. Eventually, this lead to the return to the Special Account
         of the amount of 5,006,021 ALL on 09.07.2008, as this sum had been withdrawn from
         the lean funds after the works contract was due.
    2. The regulatory framework, which controls/standardise the ownership relations and the
         relationships of the local government with the agencies or projects experienced
         problems;
    3. The designing of the markets or related activities did not have a wide/extensive
         participation of the local communities.
    4. The monitoring and evaluation system and the list of indicators, which covered the
         objectives of the project, should have been used better/more appropriately fin the
         project management.




                                                            44

                 Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




   5. The specialists of the procurement implementation unit did not manage to generate in
       time the necessary information based on the required/expected methods or quality.
       Such a thing caused delays in the implementation and had an impact on the salaries.

Thanking you for our continuous cooperation, I express the assurances of my highest
consideration.


Ridvan Bode
(signed & sealed)

MINISTER




                                                        45

           Implementation Completion Report for Agriculture Services Project (P054736) ­ Albania,




                 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Concept Document (PCD) and draft Project Information Document (PID)
    May, 1999
2. Preparation mission report, September ­ October, 1999
3. Social assessment report, February, 2001
4. Project Appraisal Document decision package, February, 2001
5. Back-to-office reports and Aide Memoires, 1998-2008
6. Implementation Status Reports, 2001-2008
7. Letters to Government 1999-2008
8. Baseline survey, November, 2002
9. Mid-term Evaluation Study, May, 2005
10. Sector Strategy of Agriculture and Food 2007-2013 (SSAF), May 2007
11. Inter-sectoral Rural Development Strategy of Albania 2007-2013 (ISRDSA), March,
    2007
12. Statistical yearbook of MAFCP and other government statistical material
13. Strategic policies for a more competitive agriculture sector (WB report no. AAA18-
    AL), October 2007
14. Urban growth, migration and poverty reduction ­ a poverty assessment (WB report
    no. 40071-AL), December, 2007
15. Project Completion Survey report, January, 2008
16. Customer survey report for Immovable Property Registration System, March, 2007
17. Completion report of the market component, January, 2008
18. Completion report of the seed component, January, 2008
19. Completion report on CGP component, January, 2008




                                                  46

