Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22030
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24090)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.4 MILLION (US$92.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
RUBBER PROJECT
March 26, 2001
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 26.00 = US$ 1.00 (SAR)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 44.00 (ICR)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
DU            Development Unit (Tripura)
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
GOI           Government of India
GOT           Government of Tripura
GOK           Government of Kerala
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IPDP          Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
MTR           Mid Term Review
NABARD        National Bank of Agriculture and Rural Development
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PB            Participating Bank
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
RB            Rubber Board
RPIS          Rubber Producer Society
RRII          Rubber Research Institute of India
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SHGs          Self-Help Groups
WPTD          Women's Progams and Tribal Development
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Team Leader/Task Leader:    Gajanand Pathmanathan/M. Balasubramanian



FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RUBBER
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       I I
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                             14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  27
Annex 8. Borrower Evaluation of the Project (unedited)                                 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Preface
This is the Core Accountability Implementation Completion Report (CAI) for the Rubber Project
in India for which Credit 2409-IN in the amount of SDR 66.4 million (US$ 92.0 million equivalent) was
approved on July 2, 1992, signed on August 12, 1993 and made effective on January 7, 1994.
Following the Mid Termn Review, 26.4 SDR rnillion was canceled on April 2, 1997. The final
disbursement under the Credit amounted to SDR 35.2 million (53% of the original Credit amount and 88%
of the revised C.redit amount after the April 1997 cancellation). At closing, a firther 4.8 SDR million
remained unutilized and was cancelled. The Credit closed on September 30, 2000 after extending the Credit
Closing date by one year.
This ICR was prepared by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission - Terrence
Abeysekara (Economist and Mission Leader), M. Balasubramanian (Sr. Agriculturist and Task Manager),
Harideep Singh (Sr. Operations Officer), S. Satish (Sr. Social Development Specialist) were from the
Bank; and Liu Xueming (Economist) and E. Pushparajah (Consulant, Rubber Expert) were from FAO/CP.
The Mission visited the project states during September 11- 27, 2000. The ICR was prepared by Terrence
Abeysekara and Lui Xueming with significant inputs from M. Balasubramanian. The Draft ICR was peer
reviewed by Nadim Khouri (LCSER) and Jean-Claude Balcet (SASRD). The ICR is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, Loan, Credit and Project Agreements, Supervision Reports, Mid Tenn Report and
documents in the project files as well as project evaluation reports and briefing documents prepared for the
mission's visit by the project staff. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing an Evaluation
Report of the project which is attached with the ICR as Annex 8. The Financial and Economic Analyses
and the September 11-27, 2000 ICR mssion aide memoire are available in the ICR files.






Project ID: P009959                                        Project Name: RUBBER
Team Leader: M. Balasubramanian                            TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: March 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RUBBER                                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-24090
Country/Department: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing; AP - Perennial
Crops
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/28/91                                 Effective: 01/07/94
Appraisal:  02/03/92                                  MTR: 04/16/96
Approval.  07/02/92                                 Closing: 09/30/99            09/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/Rubber Board under the Ministry of Commerce
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:       Ridwan Ali                                Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:   M. Balasubramanian                        Ashok Seth
ICR Primary Author:   Terrence Abeysekera; Lui
Xueming (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.] Original Objective:
3.1.1  The objectives of the prOject were to strengthen and expand India's rubber sub-sector through (i)
enhancing production and productivity of smallholder producers, (ii) providing assistance to rubber
processors, (iii) generating on and off-farm rural employment and income, and (iv) providing benefits to the
tribal people in Tripura through the introduction of rubber-based farm production systems on land
degraded by shifting cultivation. Additionally, the project aimed at strengthening the Rubber Board (RB)
and assisting the rubber sub-sector in becoming intemationally competitive through appropriate policy
changes.
3.1.2  These objectives were realistic except in the case of providing assistance to the rubber processing
industry. Smallholders contribute 80% of the total rubber production in India, and hence, the focus on the
key issues to be addressed in the sector such as replanting rates, planting/crop management standards of the
producers as well as the institutional capacity of the Rubber Board (RB) was relevant. The project was
designed to cover a time slice of the long term development program of GOI covering the eighth Five Year
Development Plan (1992-93/1996-97) and hence, its objectives fitted well into the overall government
strategy for developing the rubber sub-sector. With regard to assisting rubber processors perhaps, and with
hindsight, the project should have focused on further strengthening the framework for private sector
investments and allowed the private sector to determine the pace and extent of their investments based on
market conditions. The objectives were also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the
Bank for reducing rural poverty through creation of employment and income generation opportunities. The
specific focus on Tripura was relevant in view of the emerging environmental problems in the area arising
from the continuation of shifting cultivation, its potential to adopt rubber cultivation as a new economic
activity and the need to socially uplift and empower the tribal community, particularly the women.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The original components were:
(i)   Replanting of old, low yielding rubber with improved clones on 40,000 ha in the traditional rubber
growing areas in Kerala and Tamil Nadu by making available a line of credit and planting assistance
(US$ 44.4 million - 35% of original base cost);
(ii)  New Planting of Rubber on 30,000 ha consisting of 23,000 ha in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, 5,000 ha
in Tripura, 1,500 ha in other selected non-traditional areas and 500 ha of pilot experimental
planting. For all new plantings, except pilot experimental planting, a line of credit and planting
assistance to be made available (US$28.5 million - 23% of the base cost);
(iii) Productivity Enhancement on existing rubber holdings in Kerala and Tamil Nadu through the
adoption of improved field practices, in particular balanced use of fertilizers, plant protection,
tapping systems, use of latex flow stimulants and rain guarding (US$ 23 million - 18% of the base
cost);
(iv)  Upgrading and Establishment of Processing Facilities for rubber (sheet, crumb and centrifuged latex)
and rubber wood to be financed through a line of credit (US$ 18.1 million - 14% of the base cost);
(v)  Institutional Support for the Rubber Board (RB) including project coordination, research, extension,
training and technical assistance (US$9.7 million - 7.7% of the base cost); and
(vi)  Women's Programs and Tribal Development including support for income generating activities and
participation by NGOs assistance (US$ 2.1 million -1.7% of the base cost).
- 2 -



These components were broadly appropriate to achieve the stated project objectives and were within the
scope of the implementing agency functions. However, again with hindsight, the inclusion of a line of credit
to finance processing facilities in the private sector was not necessary to meet the project's objectives. If
the project was designed today it would possibly have a much narrower focus explicitly targeting poverty
reduction. The aim would have been to assist small holders plant rubber in a farming systems framework
(with greater focus on non-traditional rubber producing areas where poverty is more pronounced),
strengthening the Rubber Board in its attempts to adopt a participatory approach and promoting the use of
technologically superior planning material and agronomic practices. Nevertheless, given the situation
prevailing in the early 1990s at a time when rubber prices were buoyant, the attempt to influence the pace
of private sector investment in rubber processing was understandable.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1   While the overall aims of the project components remained unchanged, to reflect the lessons learnt
from implementation experience and to respond to the changes in India's financial sector policy reforms and
high world rubber prices during the early phase of the project, adjustments were made in key project
components at MTR; and subsequently when found necessary by supervision missions. This included
upward revision of the physical targets for new planting and productivity enhancement components;
reduction in some of the activities relating to replanting and the processing component; enhancing the
women's programs and Tribal Development component in Tripura; introduction of an alternative credit
financing program for planting rubber; and introducing measures to further strengthen the institutional
arrangements.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Satisfactory. Overall, the project design was well aligned with the objectives and strategies of the
GOI for expanding domestic rubber production and improving the efficiency of the smallholder rubber
sector. The design was comprehensive from an overall perspective. Technological improvements as well as
enhanced institutional efficiency were incorporated as major strategies. The community based development
approach adopted in the design to involve NGOs and producers and other self-help groups was successful
in mobilizing local resources and interests. The design focused on the problems of the smallholder rubber
growers including poverty and other issues relating to social, institutional and technological aspects. The
design also recognized that the development of smallholder tree crops is better achieved in the context of an
overall farming system development, particularly in non-traditional rubber growing areas, and this strategy
was reflected in the development plan for Tripura. The implementing agency was a well established
organization, the Rubber Board, which was also expected to be further strengthened under the project. In
addition, the design attempted to deal with the problem of availability of counterpart funds by aligning the
project with the RB's five year plan. The main project risks, including the volatility in the world rubber
prices, lack of experience of the Participating Banks (PBs) in delivering credit to small farmers and the
unstable political situation in Tripura, were identified correctly. The physical targets in general were
appropriate and reflected the Rubber Board's past achievements.
3.5.2  In hindsight, however, the inclusion of the credit and processing components were questionable.
As regards the credit component, which accounted for about two thirds of IDA assistance, the design
significantly over-estimated the beneficiary credit requirement by assuming a high credit demand for
replanting and new planting, from a historical low of 20-25% to about 80% of the total planted and
re-planted area. In addition, although the design had correctly identified the weak capacity of the
Participating Banks to deliver credit to potential beneficiaries in Tripura, it did not propose an effective
scheme to address the credit delivery problems in this area. As regards processing also, the SAR
over-estimated the demand for additional processing capacities for various forms of processed rubber
- 3 -



including centrifuged latex (cenex), technically specified rubber (TSR), ribbed smoke sheet (RSS) and latex
crepe. The overestimation was based on the assumption that the demand for high quality rubber in the
processing industry would eventually expand with time. Contrary to this expectation, the major end-users
of rubber (such as the tyre industry) continued to depend on lower grades of rubber, and hence the price
differentials between the higher grades processed rubber and lower grades were marginal. However, it must
be said that during the project period, India's economy went through substantial structural transformations
which could not be foreseen at the time of SAR preparation. The fundamental aims of the project and its
focus on small holders and poverty reduction were still appropriate.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Satisfactory. The overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. This rating is supported by the
achievements of the project development objectives relating to increased production, productivity and
employment; introduction of environmentally sustainable production systems, institutional development,
and developing tribal and women's activities. Although the development objective of increasing the
processing capacity did not achieve the SAR expectations, significant expansion of the private sector
processing capacity has occurred during the project period. The private sector increased its processing
capacity using funds from their own sources, but not through the project funds provided by the National
Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD). From a sustainability point of view, this was a
positive development, as the private sector processors and financing commercial banks made appropriate
decisions based on the market indicators for rubber and for institutional credit.
4.1.2  The assessment of the achievement of the project objectives in respect of each of the five
development objectives (DOs) identified at the MTR is presented below. This assessment is made by
comparing the key project outcomes/outputs actually achieved by the project with those anticipated at the
SAR and MTR (Annex 1).
Development Obiective 1 (DO1)
4.1.3  Increase in preduction through expansion of area and productivity enhancement. (Components:
re-planting, new planting, productivity enhancement). Satisfactory. The total area re-planted was 35,100
ha or 115% of the target set by MTR (83% of SAR target). As for new planting, the project has succeeded
in achieving 50,800 ha or 113% of MTR target (169% of SAR target). The project has also been
successful in promoting rubber as an alternative commercial crop in a number of new areas. Project
participants have planted improved rubber clones recommended by the Rubber Research Institute of India
(RRII) and nearly 90% of the area covered used poly-bag raised plants. The overall quality of plants
established in the field and their growth performance, as judged from tree girth measurements and other
criteria, is good. It can therefore be expected that this would lead to superior quality plantations with early
tapping and higher tree productivity. In Tripura, the project confirmed the benefits associated with the
block planting approach which is more suited to tribal societies and lands degraded by the adoption of
shifting cultivation. As regards productivity enhancement, an independent consultant study has shown that
the measures adopted by the project including timely application of agro-inputs and adoption of other
improved management practices have increased average rubber yields of the participating farmers by about
18% over that of non-participants. Furthermore, during the initial 5-6 years of plant establishment, about a
third of the beneficiaries could plant banana and other cash crops as inter-crops to maintain a favorable
cash flow until their rubber trees start generating an income.
Development Obiective 2 (D02)
-4 -



4.1.4  Expansion and upgrading of processina facilities: (Component: processing). Unsatisfactory. At
appraisal, the project proposed the establishment of some 106 processing units for upgrading the product
quality. This objective, however, was unrealized and only one unit received financial assistance from the
project. This was mainly due to two reasons. Firstly, because of an over-estimation of the demand for such
units in terms of both capacity and upgrading and secondly, because of the financial market liberalization
the Participating Banks (PBs) were able to offer loans to private sector processors on more favorable terms
using their own sources of funds and therefore did not seek refinance facilities provided by the project
through NABARD. Another factor that appears to have led to this problem is the purchase of good quality,
used processing equipment from Malaysia. These imports could not be reimbursed under the project. From
the industry point of view however, fifty five private new processing factories were established and total
rubber processing capacity in the country was increased during the project period.
4.1.5  The envisaged upgradation of various forms of processed rubber (Centex, TSR, RSS and latex
crepe) by the private processing industries did not take place during the project period. This was mainly
due to volatile price fluctuation of natural rubber and the sustained stable demand for low quality rubber in
India which was reflected in the marginal price differentiation between higher and lower grades of
processed rubber.
Development Obiective 3 (DO 3)
4.1.6 Increase in employment: (Components: new planting, replanting and productivity enhancement).
Satisfactory. The total additional employment created by planting superior clones and adopting improved
crop management practices during project implementation period (1993-2000) is estimated at 88 million
mandays. Since hired labor accounts for nearly half the total labor demand, the project activities would
have increased the demand for hired labor in the project area substantially. The expansion of labor demand
is likely to have a significantly favorable impact on the labor market in Tripura. In this area, rubber
cultivation is estimated to have generated about 7.5 million mandays of additional employment. Activities
initiated by women's groups and tribal development programs such as animal rearing and other
micro-enterprises in Tripura have also created additional employment and substantial income eaming
opportunities for the tribal communities.
Development Obiective 4 (DO 4)
4.1.7  Development of rubber-based. environmentally sustainable production svstems: (Components: new
planting, replanting and productivity enhancement). Satisfactory. The overall environmental impact of
the project has been positive. The project was successful in planting a total of about 86,000 ha (both
re-planting and new planting), while bringing another 50,000 ha of rubber land under a wide range of
improved management and technological practices including erosion prevention, cover crop cultivation,
promotion of discriminatory fertilizer use. In Tripura, where land degradation is a major problem, the
project has brought about 9,600 ha of degraded land previously under shifting cultivation under a
permanent rubber-based cropping system. In addition, mature rubber trees provide significant positive
environmental benefits by sequestration of atmospheric carbon, enriching soil with organic matter, and
reducing soil erosion.
Development Obiective 5 (DO 5)
4.1.8  Institutional development: (Components: institutional development, and women and tribal
development) Satisfactory. Overall, the project has strengthened the functional capacity of the RB by
- 5 -



improving its quality of human resources and overall management skills, decentralizing the organizational
structure, introducing a major computerization program, and training extension staff. The opening up of
new regional offices has enabled the RB to respond to the needs of the rubber producers more effectively.
The computerization program introduced by the project has provided a firm foundation to improve
information handling capacity of the RB and to process applications for planting assistance more
effectively. Training provided by the project for enhancing staff skills of the RB, both in-country and
abroad, has been substantial. Attempts made by the project for strengthening the Rubber Producer
Societies (RPSs) have helped the RB to function on a more participatory and demand-driven management
mode. Of the 2000 RPSs, about 300 are involved in disseminating improved technologies through extension
agents and tapping assistants. The project also financed a small sub-component (about US$ 2 million) for
the establishment of a model TSR factory and some machinery for a Rubber Wood processing factory to
enable the RB to provide demonstration and training functions to the industry. In addition, a modem
laboratory for testing rubber and rubber wood products and to comply with international certification
standards, was financed. The technical assistance provided and other information generated by the project
has substantially strengthened the institutional dimension of the RB, and enhanced their capacity to play a
facilitating role in the development of the industry to influence technological improvements.
4.1.9  In Tripura, the project has initiated and strengthened small scale, self-help groups at the village
level among Tribal communities through NGO interventions. The groups are involved in income generating
activities. Implementation of the project benefited a total of about 4,000 Tribal families in Tripura, most of
whom were without regular employment and living below the poverty line. Introduction of rubber enabled
the Tribals to move away from their traditional slash and burn farming system associated with highly
uncertain and low incomes. The women's groups in Tripura are particularly successful in operating credit
and savings programs and the groups have initiated small scale income generating activities. The
institutional development approach adopted by the project in Tripura through establishment and
strengthening of women's groups has provided the tribal women in Tripura with greater empowerment and
enhanced gender equality.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  This section deals with a brief assessment of the project outputs arising from each of the six major
components of the project. This assessment is based on a quantitative comparison of the actual outputs of
the project with those planned at SAR and MTR. The achievements of the key project outputs are given in
Annex 1.
4.2.2  Replanting. Satisfactory. 83% of the original SAR targets (115 % of the MTR revised target)
were achieved. Achievement of replanting targets in traditional areas in Kerala was affected by the
reluctance of the farmers to uproot their old trees at times of high rubber prices.
4.2.3  New planting. Highly Satisfactory. The SAR target of 30,000 ha was increased to 45,000 ha at
MTR In traditional rubber growing areas, the MTR target was exceeded by about 11%, while in
non-traditional areas the target was exceeded by almost 18%. In Tripura, the achievement was 96%. This
highly satisfactory response is mainly due to the introduction of an alternative financing arrangement
introduced by the project. Under this arrangement, credit was routed through the Development Unit (DU)
and Tripura State Cooperative Bank (TSCB), and secured by a State Government guarantee. The
arrangement is functioning well.
4.2.4  Productivity enhancement. Satisfactory. This component aimed at improving crop management
relating to the use of improved clonal material; balanced use of fertilizers and improved soil management;
improved methods of disease control; new tapping methods and use of latex flow stimulus; and
-6 -



popularization of rain guarding. These efforts were supported by a number of studies focused on a range of
field problems directly related to rubber sector development including production, processing, marketing
and socio-economic aspects. These studies have yielded a wealth of information useful for enhancing crop
productivity both in the short run and in the long run.
4.2.5  Institutional support for Rubber Board. Satisfactory. A wide range of project related outputs have
been delivered including overseas and local training for 98 scientists of RRI and extension officers and
other staff (1060) of RB; opening of regional offices; and installation of computer facilities for the regional
offices and the head office (more detail in section 4.5).
4.2.6 Upgrading and establishment of processing facilities. Unsatisfactory. This component was aimed
at providing technical support to private investors, supply of credit and providing quality certification
standards of processed rubber and rubber wood. A facility for the development of certification standards of
processed rubber and rubber wood was established. However, as was stated before, there was no demand
for credit facilities offered by NABARD through PBs from the private sector processors for expansion of
rubber and rubber wood processing capacity. At closing, the project was also not able to fully achieve its
aims to influence technological improvements in rubber processing and in the use of rubber wood. The
RB's model TSR factory and the Rubber Wood factory created to assist its efforts in demonstration and
training only came on stream in 2000 and it is too early to gauge their demonstration impact on the
industry. There is also some uncertainty about the ability of the Rubber Board to meet the recurrent cost
needs of these operations in the future. This issue was recognized and private sector participation in the
operations of the Rubber Wood factory was sought, but with little success. Current private participation in
the rubber wood factory is only 2%. Consequently, the future effective operations of these demonstration
factories had not been secured at closing.
4.2.7 Women's.programs and tribal development (WPTD). Satisfactory. In Tripura, WPTD, designed
in accordance with the OD 4.20, the first ever Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) in the Bank,
has been successful in human and institutional development of tribals. The program provided economic
assistance (through income generation activities) for 4,000 poor tribal families enabling them to sustain
themselves economically through the gestation period, till such time rubber matures. In cloing so, it has also
prepared the erstwhile slash and bum cultivators for rubber based sedentary livelihood. For the first time in
the state, the project has been successful in establishing women's credit and savings groups, breaking the
myth that tribals do not 'save'. Banking culture too has been introduced. This, in turn, has had several
multiplier effects, leading to the initiation of a number of microenterprises. Interventions have been made in
the spheres of functional literacy, health & family welfare, and gender sensitization. The infrastructure
development activities include: building link/approach roads, solar light and sanitary latrines to tribal
households. Overall, the WPTD has successfully accomplished the objective of enabling sustainable,
culturally compatible social and economic development. Looking at the success of, and the tribals'
receptivity to, this program, the Government of Tripura (GOT) has planned to take up all its development
programs on the lines of WPTD.
4.2.8  In Kerala, women's programs were launched quite late, in the last two years of the project.
Interventions were aimed at empowering women on social, economic and legal fronts. On the legal front,
the participating RPSs were prevailed upon to change their by-laws such as to provide for: (a) automatic
enrollment of the spouse as members; and (b) mandatory representation for women on the executive
committee. Socially, the programs of drinking water, individual sanitary latrines and health and hygiene
have helped in reducing the drudgery for women. On the economic front, 1,600 women have been trained in
rubber tapping and latex processing. Four different rubber wood-based handicraft units were established by
the trained women.
-7 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The overall economic rate of return (ERR) was re-estimated using the latest information on prices,
costs, areas under rubber, productivity, and other accrued benefits. Two scenarios were assumed in
estimating the ERR. Scenario I includes all quantified benefits arising from rubber production as well as
timber from the trees felled. Scenario 2 covers a wider range of benefits and includes the environmental
benefits arising from carbon sequestration. The ERRs for scenario 1 and scenario 2 were estimated at
21.7% and 23.0% respectively, as compared with 29.9% at SAR. The lower ERR at ICR was mainly due
to the sharply increased economic cost of labor, which constituted over 60% of rubber production costs.
Labor costs rose substantially during project period; the SAR assumed labor price at Rs. 3 1/manday (Rs.
54/manday in 2000 price). In comparison, actual labor cost prevailing in 2000 was Rs. 100/day. A
sensitivity analysis was also undertaken to gauge the possible influences of price decrease in rubber and
increase in production costs on the project. The results showed the project is economically viable under
both these circumstances.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1   An analysis of the financial rate of return (FRR) for I ha farms was estimated to assess the
financial viability of the growers using the new planting/replanting in traditional areas and new planting in
non-traditional areas using two analytical models. The FRRs for the new planting/replanting model in
traditional areas and new planting area in non- traditional areas were estimated at 14.6% and 18.3 %
respectively. FRR for productivity enhancement model was not applicable, as the net cash flow by year
was all positive. The project therefore is financially viable.
4.5 Institutional development impact.
4.5.1   Satisfactory. The project had a significant impact on the institutional and organizational aspects,
both at the RB and at the producer levels. It has strengthened the capacity of the RB by training its staff,
modernized the working environment with computers, introduced a decentralized management system with
regional offices and added two training /laboratory facilities. In addition, modern facilities were created for
rubber and rubber wood processing for demonstration and training in processing as well as on effluent
treatment. These facilities will provide ISO 9000 and 14000 certification of rubber and rubber wood. These
and other changes hav_. enabled the RB to be more effective and responsive to beneficiary needs (see
discussion under DO 5 also). Strengthening RPSs as a means of mobilizing farm level resources and
formation of women's groups in Tripura in particular was a major institutional improvement. A number of
research studies were undertaken on a range of subjects including future rubber markets, soil/land use
mapping capacity of RPS. This has improved the operational/management capacity of the RB.
4.6 Environmental impact:
4.6.1  Satisfactory. Overall, the environmental impact of the project has been positive. New planting and
replanting of rubber was successfully carried out in some 86,000 ha. Another 55,000 ha of planted rubber
has been brought under improved management. Most of the newly planted rubber in Tripura has been
planted on degraded lands where shifting cultivation has been practiced. This has resulted in reduced soil
erosion, improved moisture retention capacity, and stabilization of land degradation processes. Positive
environment benefits will also result from carbon sequestration. Tribal farmers were encouraged to plant
fire wood trees in the boundaries of their holdings. Adoption of mixed farming systems with banana and
pineapple as inter-crops, and also establishment of cover crops in immature rubber plantations also should
lead to improved soil quality.
4.6.2  The project has satisfactorily minimized water pollution problems from rubber processing factories
by offering technical guidance in design, implementation and operation of the effluent treatment systems in
- 8 -



many processing centers and has coordinated to monitor the level of effluent discharge with the State
Pollution Control Board. In the 35 model RPSs established under the project, bio-gas produced from the
effluent is being used for rubber drying. The consultancy study implemented under the project has shown
that the accumulation of copper residues in soils in and around rubber plantations is not a major issue.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  Five key factors outside the control of the government/implementing agency have affected the
project implementation. The first was the high international rubber prices prevailing in the initial years of
the project. During this period, the reluctance of the growers to uproot their old rubber trees for replanting
led to low replanting rates. The high market prices, however, have promoted the growers to adopt more
intensive improved management and productivity enhancement measures. To reflect these changes, the
SAR targets identified for these components were revised at the MTR. Thus, while the overall physical
targets for aggregate planting exceeded SAR projection at project closure, the replanting rates were lower
than envisaged at SAR The second factor relates to the civil disturbances faced by Tripura. This problem
has led to delays in completion of some civil works in Tripura. The third factor involves the public
litigation against the establishment of the TSR factory in Kerala on some technical grounds. This has
delayed the completion of the factory. The fourth factor was the decision of PBs not to resort to NABARD
refinancing on its loans to rubber processing units. The fifth factor involves the exchange rate movement
during the project, which changed from Rs 26/US$ at appraisal to the Rs 44/US$ at project closure. The
exchange rate movement exacerbated the problem of the over-estimated credit requirement for planting and
processing, resulting in a large surplus of unutilized IDA Credit.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Two main factors subject to government control affected the project implementation. These
resulted in substantial delays in implementing the project during the initial years. The first relates to the
delay of about 18 months, from signing to effectiveness. The delay arose initially because of the
requirement to obtain administrative clearance from the Government of India (GOI) and later because of
the need to prepare a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NABARD and GOI. These delays could have
been avoided with effective planning and monitoring. The second relates to the general ban imposed by the
Ministry of Finance on hiring additional staff. As a result, the project in the early years failed to recruit
agreed staff and this, in turn, led to delays in subsequent project activities including replanting, technology
dissemination and formation of RPSs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  The project performance was affected by three key factors subject to the control of the
implementing agency. The most significant factor was the problem affecting the smooth flow of NABARD
refinanced funds to the growers through the Participating Banks prior to MTR. Following the
recommendations of the MTR mission, as a remedial measure, a Credit Expert was positioned in the
Rubber Board to monitor and evaluate the performance of this component and to take corrective actions.
Since then, the fund flow situation to growers has shown drastic improvement. The second factor relates to
the lack of familiarity of the implementing agency staff with the Bank's lending procedures. The problem
was more pronounced in the early years of the project, but gradually eased off with the training/workshops
conducted for the procurement and other related staff in the Rubber Board. The third relates to the weak
interaction and coordination that existed between NABARD, Development Unit (DU) of Tripura and
Rubber Board staff. The dialogue between these institutions was deepened during the post-MTR period and
this has led to significant improvements in the design and delivery of institutional credit component in
Tripura.
g9-



5.3.2  In general, audit performance has been satisfactory. However, the 1999-2000 audit report indicated
that there is need for further improvement in the internal control environment to ensure that the Bank's
financial reporting requirements are consistently met. Audit disallowances noted in the audit report for the
year 1999-2000 are being resolved.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  At appraisal, total costs for the project were estimated at US$141.2 million. This was to be
financed by contributions of US$14.8 million from Rubber Board/GOI, US$34.4 million from beneficiaries
and PBs, and a Credit of SDR66.4 million (equivalent to US$92.0 million) from IDA (about 65% of the
total project cost). Project cost at end-of-project is estimated at US$161.1 million. Rubber Board and
beneficiary shares increased to US$29.2 million and US$86.8 million respectively, with IDA share
reducing to US$48.3 million (about 30% of total project cost).
5.4.2  The increase in project costs emanated from two components: (a) replanting and new planting -
from US$72.8 million to US$120.0 million (due largely to increase in physical targets from about 70,000
hectares to about 85,000 hectares, and to increase in average per hectare plantation costs by about 35%
during the project period); and (b) institutional development - from US$10.3 million to US$21.9 million
(due largely to some new components introduced/strengthened at MTR - model TSR and rubber wood
factory, rubber product testing laboratory, a number of additional studies, a second training center, in
addition to the first at Kottayam, at Agartala, and the model RPS support scheme). The line of Credit for
financing processing facilities declined from US$ 18.1 million estimated at approval to US$4.1 million at
project closing.
5.4.3  An important aspect to note is that despite the higher project cost in terms of US$ and Re, IDA
share in the cost actually reduced from 65% expected at appraisal to 30% at closing. This has been
primarily due to the following: (a) The credit component under the project, which was about two-thirds of
IDA assistance, was significantly over-estimated. While the physical targets for re- and new planting were
exceeded in aggregate contributing to the increased project costs, the rubber growers used their own
resources to substantially finance the investments (which have been included in the project cost due to
partial funding of the investment cost relating to this area in the form of planting assistance by IDA). Thus,
even as total re- and new planting costs increased by 64% over appraisal estimates, IDA share in bank
credit for this investment reduced from by 70% from US$47.0 million at appraisal to US$14.2 million at
project closing. (b) Institutional development measures expanded to cover additional interventions such as
TSR and rubber wood factory. These required equity contributions from RB, land from the government,
and working capital for operating the facilities. None of these expenditures (though included in the project
cost) are financed under the project. Further, the RB also included staff pension applicable during the
project period as a part of the total project cost. These have not been considered as eligible for
reimbursement under the project. All of the above increased RB/GOI share in the institutional development
component from US$0.8 million to US$14.0 million.
5.4.4 Of the Credit of SDR66.4 million, SDR26.4 million was canceled in April 1997, resulting from the
revised project cost and disbursement estimate at mid-term review. Actual disbursement totaled to
SDR35.2 million (53% of the original Credit); the undisbursed balance of SDR4.8 million is due to be
canceled. The Credit, equivalent of US$92.0 million at appraisal, was equivalent to US$91.1 million at
closing (sum of the disbursement of US$48.3 million over the project period, canceled Credit of US$36.6
million, and the undisbursed balance of US$6.2 million at closing) due to the slight strengthening of the
US$ vis-a-vis the SDR.
- 10 -



6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  Overall, the project benefits are likely to be sustained. Interest and commitment of all stakeholders
including Government, NGOs, RPSs, farmers and other stakeholders to continue project initiated activities
are high. The incentive of farmers to maintain trees at optimum performance level is particularly high, as
the trees provide them with a steady source of income. A key factor which provides a strong basis for this
assessment is that a bulk of the investment, both for rubber production and process, has been provided by
growers and processors from their own resources. This has given them an incentive to sustain their interest
in the investments even in the long run. Specialized technical skills that have been introduced within the RB
and the RRII will remain as a continuing asset, and the approach to the participation of people in the
management of rubber based activities is also likely to be sustained. GOI is committed to implement the
project initiated activities by the RB through the budget planned for 2000-01. The cess collection is
adequate to cover the expenditure of the RB. (The total estimated cess collection of 1999-2000 amounts to
Rs. 756 million, while the total expenditure of the RB for the same period is Rs. 799 million.) As regards
the sustainability of Tribal development in Tripura, assurance has been given by GOT for the continuation
of the initiatives of the DU. As discussed earlier, sustainability from an environmental perspective is high.
6.1.2  To ensure sustainability, the project needs to retain the staff trained in various fields within the
project. The Tribal students trained at the diploma level by the project need to be appropriately employed.
Finances should be adequately allocated to operate and maintain the computers supplied by the project. In
the case of Tripura, adequate funds and other resources should be ensured to sustain and develop the newly
formed women's and tribal groups.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  The borrower has prepared a credible plan of the transitional arrangements to regular operations.
This included: (a) a plan for completing the unfinished project activities including the operationalizing of
the TSR factory, completing the construction of joint sector model rubber wood factory and implementation
of the second phase of computer installation and testing, (b) a description of the arrangements for the
project's future operation, and (c) development of a list of performance indicators. With a view to
dovetailing the project into the ninth Five Year Development Plan, GOI is currently making budgetary
provisions to integrate follow-up project activities into its regular program. In the case of Tripura, GOT
has assured the continuation of work program initiated by the Development Unit.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
7.1.1  Satisfactory. The assistance provided by the Bank was consistent with the Bank's and borrower's
priorities. The Bank assistance to project preparation included the provision of several specialists. In
general, the Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. It
resulted in a project to provide support to the rubber sector as a whole, based on the lessons learned from
earlier Bank lending to the sector. However, at the preparation stage, the capacity of the implementing
agencies to achieve time bound targets, particularly that of credit, was inadequately assessed. Also, the
stakeholder workshops to ascertain the modalities of channeling credit through PBs to potential rubber
growers and processors were not conducted. The credit requirement, which was half the IDA assistance,
was substantially overestimated. The problem was further compounded by the depreciation of the rupee
from Rs 26/US$ at SAR to Rs 44/US$ at project closure. About US$ 36.6 million was canceled from the
loan at the time of MTR. Despite the extension of the project for a period of one year, another US 6.2
million will be canceled, taking total cancellation to about 51 % of the original Credit. However, on balance,
- 1 1 -



the small holder poverty focus of the project and the institutional arrangements designed were appropriate,
and Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
7.2 Sutpervision:
7.2.1  Satisfactory. The Bank carried out 12 supervision missions at regular intervals during the project.
The skills mix of the missions were generally appropriate for addressing the technical, management and
financial issues. In the initial years, however, the mission skill composition would have been strengthened
by adding technical specialists on rubber production and processing as well as on credit delivery. In the
later years the problem was rectified by adding suitable specialists to the supervision missions. The project
saw six Task Leaders over a seven year period of the project. Through persistent and firm, and yet
appropriately flexible efforts, the Bank missions assisted the implementing agency in resolving bottlenecks.
Bank involvement provided substantial technical assistance to the project and this helped to create the
conditions for various technical and institutional changes under the project. The MTR in particular was
successful in identifying and addressing problems affecting project implementation and incorporating
appropriate mid-course corrections. Bank supervision performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1  Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank provided valuable support to the project development. The initial
design deficiencies and somewhat weak client orientation of early supervision missions was overcome by
appropriate actions at MTR and subsequent supervision missions. The decision to allow a one year
extension has provided a significant acceleration of project performance in the final stages. The overall
Bank performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  Satisfactory. The borrower provided data and collaborated adequately with the Bank in the
preparation and appraisal of the project. The comprehensive project document prepared by the Borrower
during project preparation stage served as a useful basis for Bank preparation work. During the
preparation and appraisal stages, the Borrower was particularly receptive to policy changes involving
interest rate subsidy elimination, phased reduction of input subsidies and increase of the rubber cess. The
Borrower performanco at preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  Satisfactory. Initially the project showed a slow development and delayed implementation mainly
due to systemic problems in the administrative system. However, development activities picked up in the
later years. The government was particularly supportive of the various changes, recommended at the MTR
and this has been a key factor in enabling the project to achieve its physical targets and development
outcomes. It also approved important policy changes indicated in the SAR, including the increase in cess on
rubber from Rs. 0.50/kg to Rs. 1.00/kg at the beginning of the project, phasing out of the input subsidy
from Rs 250 in year 1 to Rs 20 in year 5.
7.6 Ihnplementing Agency:
7.6.1  Satisfactory. The Rubber Board was particularly effective in overcoming the initial shortcomings
in implementation resulting from the delayed Credit effectiveness (by 18 months) and shortage of required
staff. With the one year extension of the project closing date, the RB was able to achieve and even exceed
many of the targets set at appraisal and MTR. An effective Project Coordination Unit was established in
the RB and its support for development of infrastructure,. procurement of goods and other activities was
effective. Performance was weak up to the MTR, which however improved substantially in response to
changes made at MTR. The RB was open to new innovations and embraced the concept of participatory
extension through model RPSs, introduced women development programs, and provided a special focus
- 12-



and attention to the rubber development and associated activities in Tripura. The implementing agency
performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.6.2  Training and other HRD activities implemented in the project led to significant improvements in
staff attitudes towards community based rural development approaches.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  Satisfactory, as indicated in the preceding three paragraphs.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1  In designing development projects involving long term tree crops such as rubber, at the very outset,
it is important to clearly identify the specific development roles to be played by public and private sector
institutions. Although both production and processing of rubber are largely handled as private sector
investments, a well functioning public sector institution such as the Rubber Board, with a well identified
mandate and a clear focus on specific areas/services complementary to private sector, could play a critical
role by mobilizing public resources more effectively. While helping to increase the efficiency of public fund
use, this approach would also help to foster a business environment conducive to expanding the private
sector initiatives in the rubber industry. This seemed to have happened to some extent in India,
notwithstanding the unfavorable world market situation.
8.1.2  In designing smallholder tree crop development projects with long gestation periods, it is desirable
to adopt an integrated farming system approach. Projects based on a single crop is inappropriate for
smallholders for a number of reasons including cash flow problems during the early phase of planting and
the risks associated with price fluctuations. A farming system approach, dependent on both on-farm and
off-farm income generating activities, would be more appropriate. This would help in overcoming the
problem of significantly negative cash flows during the initial immature phase of the crop, and also to
spread the risk of output price fluctuations.
8.1.3  In evaluating rubber development projects, environmental benefits and timber production should be
considered in project benefits and justification. Development of the rubber industry should be viewed as a
multi-objective activity with many favorable features. In addition to the production of rubber and rubber
products, production of timber and contribution to environment improvement by enhancing the green cover,
carbon sequestration, reducing soil erosion, water run-off should also receive focus.
8.1.4  When credit financing of project components on a substantial scale is envisaged, assignment of
dedicated staff with accountability to oversee implementation and monitor progress would be critical to the
success of the program. Also, participating institutions should be flexible and innovative in designing
delivery systems, credit procedures and conditionalities in response to specific situations and needs of
borrowers.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1   The draft ICR was reviewed by the Rubber Board and the Ministry of Commerce, Government
of India who are in general agreement with the observations made in the ICR. The Borrower's
evaluation is attached as Annex 8 to the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 13-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
10.1   The September 11-27, 2000 ICR mission aide memoire and the report on Financial and Economic
Analysis (with the attachments) are available in the project files.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Output/Impact Indicators
Indicator                Appraisal Estimate             ICR Estimate
1. Increased income through
enhanced production and
productivity:
(a) Traditional area (new    Rs. 40,505/ha/year            Rs. 31, 766/ha/year
planting/replanting)
(b) Non-traditional area (new  Rs. 39, 294/ha/year         Rs. 28, 916/ha/year
planting)
2. Strengthened institutional  Broadly defined              * Efficiency and capacity of
capacity                                                      institutional management
improved.
* Upgraded R&D capacity.
* Improved extension service
by Rubber Board.
* RPSs capacitated to
undertake technology
dissemination.
* Women mobilized and
empowered, leading to
income generating
micro-enterprises.
* Tribals mobilized and tribal
institutions established.
3. Adoption of environmentally   Broadly defined            * Shifting cultivation practices
sustainable rubber based                                       checked.
production system                                           * Improved soil conservation.
* Rubber wood from re-planted
areas as additional timber
resource.
(a) & (b) Expected income during peak production, expressed in year 2000 price
- 15 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator                 SAR Estimate                MTR Estimate                 ICR Estimate
1. Increased productivity
& production
Area under new planting:
(i) Traditional area; (ii)   (i) 23,000 ha; (ii) 6,500 ha  (i) 31,000 ha; (ii) 14,000    (i) 34,400 ha; (ii) 16,400
Non-traditional area; (iii)   (iii) 500 ha; (iv) 40,000  ha; (iii) 500 ha; (iv)       ha; (iii) 230 ha; (iv)
Trial planting; (iv)         ha;                          27,000 ha                   35,100 ha;
Replanting
Productivity enhancement
(v) Area covered; (vi)       (v) Not specified; (vi)     (v) Not specific; (vi)       (v) 55,000 ha (vi) 341;
Productivity (Kg/Ha);        150-200; (vii) 106           150-200; (vii) 9            (vii) I
(vii)Processing units for
latex sheets and crumb.
11. Strengthened
institutional capacity
2.1 Rubber Board
Organization:
(i) Establishment of new    (i) 1; (ii) 8; (iii) Specified.  (i) 1; (ii) 8; (iii) Specified.  (i) 1; (ii) 8; (iii) Completed.
zonal office at Agartala;
(ii) Establishment of
regional offices; (iii)
Establishment of Rubber
Wood Processing, Rubber
Product Testing,
Technically Specified
Rubber factory, Genome
laboratory, upgrade
Statisticsand Planing
division of RB and
establish office
Computerization
2.2. RPS Strengthening
(i) No. of RPSs revitalized; (i) Not Specified; (ii)Not   (i) Not Specified; (ii) Not   (i) 519; (ii) 659; (iii) 35;
(ii) No. new RPSs            Specified; (iii) Not        Specified; (iii) Not         (iv) 62
established; (iii) No. of"    Specified; (iv) Not        Specified; (iv)Not
model" RPSs established;   Specified.                    Specified.
(iv) No. RPS leaders
trained overseas
- 16 -



2.3 Research and
Development:
(i) Clonal evaluations; (ii)  (i) Unspecified; (ii)  (i) Unspecified; (ii)    (i) Done; incorported in the
Biotechnology; (iii)      Unspecified; (iii)        Unspecified; (iii)        breeding program
Diagnosis                 Unspecified;              Unspecified;              (ii) Efficient protocol for
Recommendation            (iv) Unspecified; (v)     (iv) Specified; (v)       plant regeneration
Integrated System (DRIS)   Unspecified; (vi)        Unspecified;              developed selected Genes
Fertilizer use;           Unspecified;              (vi)Unspecified; (vii)    for agronomic
(iv) Rubber based farming  (vii) Unspecified        Unspecified               improvements introduced
systems and intercropping.                                                    germplasm and mother tree
(v) Natural Rubber                                                            from Brazil evaluated
Processing;                                                                   (iii) Soil and foliar
(vi) Latex Diagnosis; (vii)                                                   analytical laboratories
Resource Soil Survey                                                          strengthened in public and
private sector; and new
recommendations dawn
(iv) Four different rubber
based multi-spcies farming
systems developed
(v) Better quality and
cost-effective commercial
solar-cum-smoke dying
unit developed
(vi) A system for regular
monitoring of tapped
rubber trees established
(vii) Mapping of rubber
growing soils completed for
Kerala and Tamil Nadu
and used for refining
____________________________ _ .__  fertilizer recommendations
- 17 -



2.4. Extension and
Training:
No. of persons trained:        (i) Not Specified; (ii) Not   (i) 80; (ii) Not Specifie;     (i)77; (ii).17,000; (iii) 80;
(i) Growers (overseas);        Specified; (iii)Not            (iii) 215;                    (iv)196;
(ii) Growers(local);           Specified;                     (iv)Not specified; (v) Not   (v) 98; (vi) 1,418; (vii)
(iii)Extension Officers        (iv) Not Specified; (v) Not  Specified; (vi) Not             300;
(overseas); (iv) Extension    Specified; (vi) Not             Specified; (vii) 300; (viii)   (viii) 270; (ix) 2; (x) 1; (xi)
officers ( local); (v)         Specified;                     300; (ix) 2; (x)l; (xi) I      1
Technical Officers; (vi) On  (vii) Not Specified; (viii)
rubber product processing;  Not Specified; (ix) 2; (x) l;
(vii) No. of extension         (xi) I
agents positioned in RPSs;
(viii) No. of tapping
assistants positioned in
RPSs;
(ix) No. of training centers
established;(x) No. of
rubber wood-processing
training units
(xi)No. of rubber
processing training units
2.5. Women and Tribal
development:
2.5.1 Tripura
(i) No of families provided
economic sustenance; (ii)   (i) Not specified; (ii) Not    (i) 3000; (ii) 37; (iii)Not    (i) 4000; (ii) 37; (iii) 110 (
No. of tribal youths          specified; (iii) Not           specified; (iv) Not            3,276 members); (iv) 130
trained at diploma            specified;                     specified;                     (2,074 members); (v) Rs. 4
(tertiary) level; (iii) No. of  (iv) Not specified; (v) Not  (v) Not specified; (vi) Not  million;
RPSs formulated; (iv) No.  specified; (vi) Not               specified.                     (vi)Rs. 1.7 million.
of Self Help Groups           specified
(SHGs) formed; (v)
Cumulative Group Savings
-- RPS Members (vi)
Cumulative Group Savings
-- SHGs Members
2.5.2 Kerala --
Women Development
(i) Not specified; (ii) Not   (i) 100; (ii) 1600; (iii) 9
(i) No of RPSs covered; (ii) (i)Not specified; (ii) Not    specified; (iii) Not
No of women trained in        specified; (iii) Not           specified
rubber related activities;    specified
(iii) No of NGOs
associated
- 18 -



111. Adoption of
environmentally
sustainable rubber based
production system:
(i) Shifting cultivation  (i) Broadly defined, no  (ii) Broadly defined, no    (iii) About 9,000 ha. of
practices checked         specific physical targets   specific physical targets    erstwhile slash and burn
given.                   given.                    area brought under rubber
tree cultivation in Tripura.
19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Replanting (a)                                                         44.35                50.00                 113
New Planting (b)                                                       28.45                70.00                 245
Processing (c)                                                          18.10                 4.10                 23
Productivity Enhancement (d)                                           23.00                 14.10                 61
Institutional Development (e)                                           10.30               21.90                 213
Women and Tribal Development (f)                                         2.10                 1.00                 48
Total Baseline Cost                                                   126.30               161.10
Physical Contingencies                                                12.30                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                                    2.60                 0.00
Total Project Costs                       141.20               161.10
Total Financing Required                         141.20               161.10
Using year by year exchange rates: 30.71 (1993-94); 31.64 (1994-95); 33.18 (1995-96); 35.65 (1996-97);
37.55 (1997-98); 41.71 (1998-99); 43.18 (1999-2000); 45.5 (2000-01)
Project Costs by Procurement Agencies (in US$ million e uivalent)
Expenditure                Procurement Method                                  Procurement Method
Categories                  Appraisal Estimate                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB       NCB       Other    NBF         Total     ICB        NCB        Other     NBF        Total
Plantation                          15.1                 15.1                           15.6                  15.6
Costs
CivilWorks                          1.12 r   r   ____    1.12                             1.8                  1.80
Goods                     0.3        4.7                  5.0                  0.4        7.8                  8.20
Equipment
Commodities    18.1       7.1        0.5                 25.7        0.5       0.5       13.1                 14.10
Planting/                           47.0      16.3       63.3                            14.2     90.20      104.4
ie-planting         I                                                                         I
Plocessing      9.5                  11.9      2.0       23.4                            0.56      3.54        4.10
Training/                            2.11                2.11                             4.2                  4.20
TA
Misc.                                6.1                  6.1                            6.9        1.80      8.70
Total          27.6       7.4       87.9      18.3      141.2     0.5        0.9       64.16      95.54      161.10
Component           Appraisal Estimate**              Actual/Latest Estimate            Percentage of App aisal
IDA      GOI/RB   PBiBENEFICIA    IDA       GOIIRB   PB/Beneficianes    IDA    GOIURB    PRiBeneficianes
RIES                                                                 I
Replanting      26.2       4.2         19.2       10.3        7.4        32.3       39.31                   168.22
176.20
New Plandngs   21.7        4.8          5.4      17.7          5.1       47.2         81.56                 874.07
106.25
Processing      13.3       1.6          5.3       0.08         0.48      3.54         0.60          30       66.79
Pnoductivity    18.0       3.2          4.5      7.4           3.1       3.6          41.1                   80.00
Enhancement                                                                                  96.85
nnstitulianal   10.7       0.8          ---        12.1       9.8                     113.08      1225        _
[ Development   __ __ __ ___ _  _________   __________  _________  _-_20_-
- 20 -



Womenbaid      2.1       0.2                  0.8       0.2                   38.09       100
Tribal
Devebonent
Total Base Cost
Physical
Conbngencies                              _______
Pnce
Conftngencies
Total Project  92.0      14.8       34.4    48.38       26.08      86.64                  197      252
** Mission estimates as no finacing by component table provded in SAR
Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures,
consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The
Procurement arrangements for items listed under "other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be
explained in footnote to the table.
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analyses                   Financial Analyses
Appraisal         Latest Estimates   Apraisal         |Latest Estimates
Economic Internal Rate of Return:
Using Import Parity      28%               21%
Price__                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Using Export Parity      21%          Not Applicable
P rice             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
With Environmental                        23.0%
Premium
Financial Rate of Return
Traditional Area
New/replanting                                              18.6%              14.6%
Non traditional Area
New Planting                                                18.6%              18.3%
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
StagE of Proeict Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
(c.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc)      mImplementation       Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                          Progrecss          Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1991                      4    Financial Analyst (I);
Agriculturist (2); Economist (1)
July 1991                       1    Financial Analyst
November 1991                   9    Rubber Research Sp (1);
Economist (1); Financial
Analyst (1); Rubber Production
Specialist/Tree Crop Specialist
(1) Principal Agriculturist (1);
Rubber Processing Sp.(l)
FAO: Credit Specialist (1);
Rubber Extension Specialist (1);
Rural Credit (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1992                   5    Economist (1); Procurement
Specialist (1); Disbursement
Specialist (1); Rubber
Research Specialist (I);
Tree Crop Specialist (1);
Rubber Processing
Specialist (1)
September 1993                       Negotiation
Supervision
September 1993                   5  Agriculturist (1);                       S                  S
Procurement Sp. (I); Rural
Sociologist (1); Financial
Analyst (2)
May 1994                         4   Operations Officer (1); Finanical       S                  S
Officer (1) Technical Consultant
(I); Credit Consultant (1)
December 1994                    4   Sr. Operations Officer (1); Sr.         S                  S
Financial Officer (1); Rural
Sociologist (1); Technical
Consultant (1)
July 1995                        2   Agriculturist (1); Financial            S                  S
Officer (1)
April 1996                       7  Agriculturist (1); Economist (1);        U                  U
Sociologist (1); Rural Credit (1)
FAO: Rubber Expert (1);
Economist (1); Rubber
Technologist (I)
January 1997                     2   Agriculturist                           S                   S
August 1997                      4  Agriculturist (I); Financial             S                   S
Analyst (1); Sociologist (1);
Procurement Engineer (1)
- 23 -



June 1998                        5   Agriculturist (1); Sociologist (1);     S                   S
Procurement Sp. (1); Rubber
Technologist (1); Economist (1)
January 1999                     3   Agriculturist (1); Financial            S                  S
Analyst (1); Environmentalist (1)
July 1999                        9   Agriculturist (2); Agriculture          S                  S
Economist (1); Financial Analyst
(1); Procurement Sp. (1);
Environmental Sp.(l); Rubber
Technologist (1); Economist (1);
Commodity Specialist (1)
January 2000                     4   Agriculturist (1); Financial            S                  S
Analyst (1); Social Scientist (1);
Procurement Specialist (1)
July 2000                        2   Social Scientist (1); Agriculturist     S                  S
(1)
ICR
September 2000                  6    Agriculturist (1); Financial            S                  S
Supervision cum ICR                  Analyst (1); Social Scientist
(1); Economist (1);
FAO: Economist (1);
Rubber Expert (1)
(b) Staff:
Stagc of Project Cycle                      ACt       e  Estima
Identification/Preparation                  74.0                         142.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                       56.4                         122.0
Supervision                                235.3                         449.0
ICR                                         17.0                          27.9
Total                                      382.7                         741.3
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
E Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
L Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
a Institutional Development                0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
LO Environmental                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
OII Poverty Reduction               OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
r0 Gender                           O H * SU O M O N O NA
LI Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
3I Lending                                            OHS OS   OU  OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O u   O HU
O  Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
3] Implementation agency performance                  O HS 0 S   O U  0 HU
E  Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Name of Document                  Issued By                       I)ate
Aide Memoire of Final         Bank                         September 2000
Supervision-cum-ICR mission
Financial and Economic Analysis Bank/FAOCP                 January 2001
Departmental Implementation   Rubber Board                  September 2000
Completion Report
Update on Components          Rubber Production Department of September 2000
implemented by Rubber         Rubber Board
Production Department
Information for preparation of    Development Unit, Government of September 2000
Draft ICR - Tripura Component  Tripura
A note on NABARD component  NABARD, Mumbai                  September 11, 2000
of the ICR
ICR and final report on research  Rubber Research Institute of  September 2000
component                     India, Rubber Board
Implementation Completion     E. Pushparajah, Consultant, FAO  October 2000
Report - Technical Components
Social Development Aspects of   S. Satish, Sr. Social       October 2000
India - Rubber Project        Developement Specialist, SASSD,
New Delhi Office
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Evaluation of the Project (unedited)
Country and Sector Context
1. Rubber Sector was identified as a possible area of assistance by International Development
Association (IDA) during a review of Indian Tree Crop Subsector by the Tropical Horticulture
Tree Crops Reconnaissance Mission in September 1989. Rubber Board (RB) / Government of
India (GOI) had finalized a project proposal for the integrated development of the rubber
plantation sector for achieving self-sufficiency of NR production to be implemented during the
VIII Plan period which was submitted to the IDA. The project design conformed to the
approaches outlined in the proposal. The preparation report was made in 1990-91 and the first
appraisal Mission of IDA was conducted in February 1992 and thereafter the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) was submitted on June 8, 1992. India Rubber Project proposal was prepared as a
time slice of the long-term rubber development program of the RB/GOI covering the activities
envisaged under the VIII Five Year Plan of GOI for the period 1992-93 to 1996-97. The
Development Credit Agreement between IDA and India and Project Agreements between IDA and
RB and between IDA and NABARD were signed only on August 12, 1993. The credit became
effective from January 1994. The Project was to close on September 30, 1999, but the World
Bank (WB) on the request of the RB and GOI extended the closing date by one year upto
September 30, 2000.
2. The project was designed to finance a five year period of an expansion and rehabilitation phase
of India's Rubber subsector, mainly to assist new planting and replanting, processing of rubber
and rubber wood, strengthen the RB's research, extension and training activities, support ongoing
program and productivity enhancement of mature rubber through improved management of inputs,
support development programs for women and tribal beneficiaries with NGO participation, benefit
about 150000 rubber growers and rubber processors and create 2800 jobs in off-farm activities.
3. At the time of appraisal of the project no major implementation risks were identified and the
rubber industry was well established and RB was a strong organization with competent staff.
There was robust internal demand and ready market for Natural Rubber (NR). Price sensitivity
analyses indicated no alarm due to price volatility. 90% of the loans provided by financial
institutions to the small holders in traditional area had been recovered in the past though Banks did
not have sufficient experience in Tripura. Insurgency situation in Tripura was also stable.
4. An alternate credit financing scheme also was envisaged considering that the major project
participants in Tripura were not creditworthy.
Project Obiectives
5. The objectives of the project reflected in the SAR were,
i) Expand and strengthen rubber subsector to increase production by small holders
ii) Provide assistance to rubber processors
iii) Generate on and off-farm rural employment
iv) Benefit tribal people in Tripura through rubber based production systems on land degraded by
shifting  cultivation
v) Strengthen Rubber Board
vi) Assist the rubber subsector in becoming internationally competitive through suitable policy
- 28 -



changes
6. More specifically the project was intended to (1) Replant old and low yielding tubber in
40000 ha out of which 38000 ha in Kerala and 2000 ha in Tamil Nadu assisted by a line of credit
and planting assistance. (2) Raise new rubber planting in 30000 ha, out of which 22350 ha in
Kerala, 650 ha in Tamil Nadu, 5000 ha in Tripura, 2000 ha of pilot plantations in selected
non-traditional areas assisted by a line of credit and planting assistance. (3) Productivity
enhancement in rubber holdings in Kerala and Tamil Nadu by adopting discriminatory fertilizer
recommendation, plant protection, tapping systems, use of stimulant and rainguard and supply of
agricultural inputs with a declining scale of assistance. The productivity was expected to increase
by 150-200 kg. Per ha. (4) Upgrade and establish processing facilities for rubber (sheets, crumb
and centrifuge latex) and rubber wood in 116 units. (5) Institutional support for Research,
Extension, Training and Technical Consultancy, RB Organization including computerization and
Project Co-ordination Unit, establishing a Training Center at Kottayam. (6) Women program and
tribal development in Tripura envisaged support for income generating activities to 3000 tribal
families with the participation of NGOs.
7.  During the mid-term review, the planting targets were revised. While the replanting target
was reduced to 3.0500 ha, the new planting target was raised to 45000 ha including the target of
Tripura, which was raised from 5000 to 10000 ha. The number of rubber and rubber wood
processing units was reduced from 116 units to 9 units. It was also proposed to establish a Model
Technically Specified Rubber (TSR) factory and a Rubber wood testing laboratory by the RB and
a Model Rubber wood factory in the joint sector with the participation of RB and private sector.
Establishment of regional Training Center at Agartala was also approved. The MTR also
approved specific programs for the strengthening of the Rubber Producers' Societies through
establishing Model RPSs to accelerate adoption of technology through demonstration plots,
devolution of extension functions through RPSs by assisting to engage para extension workers
besides enhancing the scope of computerization. Since the farmers in Tripura especially tribal
were considered not creditworthy, an Alternate credit financing scheme was introduced.
Items in Project Agreement Promoting Objectives
8. GOI agreed to provide adequate additional personnel for efficient execution of the project.
The project agreement covenants provided for increasing the Cess from 50 paise per kg. of rubber
to Rs. 2 per kg., through an amendment to the Rubber Act. Subsequently, the Cess was increased
from Rs.0.50 to Rs.l per kg., w.e.f. July 1, 1994 and then to Rs.1.50 per kg. w.e.f. September 1,
1998. The additional fund required to meet part of the project expenditure and sustaining the
activities mentioned under the project was to be mobilized through enhancement of rate of cess.
Subsidy allowed for inputs and polybag plants was to be phased out when the practices were well
adopted by the farmers. The tariffs on imports of NR varied between 25% to 48% of CIF value in
the past three years of appraisal. During the 1994-95 the tariff was uniformly brought down to
25%. The buffer stock scheme of GOI would be reviewed based on the prevailing market for
rubber.
Evaluation of Objectives
9.  The objectives were designed for the overall growth and improvement of the rubber
subsector in India. Even though the project was a time slice of Five-year, the project objectives
were much enlarged and diversified). These activities could accelerate the growth of rubber
plantation industry and result in generation of more rural employment. Additional and improved
rubber processing facilities were required for processing increased raw rubber produced due to
- 29 -



productivity enhancement measures and for supplying better quality raw rubber for modem rubber
goods manufacturers. One of the key objectives was to benefit tribal people in Tripura through
rubber based production system on land degraded by shifting cultivation and thus discouraging the
tribals from shifting cultivation. For this activity, the involvement of NGOs was emphasized. It
was for the first time that an extemally aided project with the participation of NGO was
implemented for the welfare of the tribals in the North-eastern region. Various programs of
institutional development were aimed at strengthening the Rubber Board to become internationally
competitive through agreed policy changes.
A. Achievement of Objectives
Sector Policies
10.  The continuing growth of the rubber sector is attractive from social and economic point of
view as it provides reliable income, increased on-farm and off farm employment and contributes to
the increased produce of manufactured rubber goods and thus promote private sector involvement
due to its attractive retums. The RB/GOI's priorities therefore had been to increase rubber
production efficiently. The components identified under the project were to meet these objectives.
To encourage scientific planting, the planting assistance was increased to Rs.8,000/- per ha.
though the eligibility criteria was abridged to target the small growers only. As the value of
financial assistance further eroded, RB with the approval of GOI enhanced the planting grant with
additional incentives for non-traditional regions. However, the support extended through project
funds remained the same. The objectives have been largely achieved. The planting program, new
planting and replanting, progressed as envisaged inspite of fluctuating prices and the planting
targets have been exceeded. In Tripura the planting exceeded about 90% of the original SAR
targets. The productivity of the small holding increased by 379 kg. as a result of the various
activities. These activities could generate estimated 87.5 million man days of work and 9.8 million
man days of work in Tripura alone. Phasing out subsidies for input could be ensured and progress
has been evolved for phasing out polybag plant subsidy. Interest subsidy on loan availed for
planting under NABARD refinance was withdrawn as a precondition to the project. GOI had to
modify the buffer stocking operation into a price support operation which since has been complied
with and reduction in import tariff has also been implemented as per the policy changes envisaged
under the project. Enhanced processing facilities to meet the additional crop production has been
established though not availing the line of credit envisaged under the project. Significant
strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the RB could be achieved and the institutional
support has contributed to strengthen the sector.
Financial Objective
11.  The project envisaged adequate flow of funds for the various activities. Sixty Eight
percentage of the project investment was to be supported through IDA credit to GOI of which GOI
was to make available a part as grant to RB and the remaining as a line of credit through
NABARD. Remaining finance would be by GOI/RB, participating banks and beneficiaries.
Though the project had reliable fund flow in general, the flow as line of credit was not smooth due
to unattractiveness of the terms of credit and the consequent lack of demand from both the
participating banks as well as borrowers leading to cancellation of US$ 36.6 million of the original
amount of US$ 92 million.
Institutional Objectives
12. The major objective was strengthening the Statistics and Planning Division into a
full-fledged department of Planning. The project intervention has helped in the strengthening of
- 30 -



the operational capacity of the RB through training of officers in building of forecasting
mathematical models for price, production and consumption of rubber with fair amotmt of
predictability. The extension wing of the RB was strengthened by creating a Zonal Office at
Agartala, 6 Supervisory Offices and 7 Regional Offices. Further decentralization of management
functions for quicker decision making and supervision was effected. Computerization of the RB in
two phases was expected to help accelerate the Board's activities. Much emphasis was laid on the
human resource development in RB and also the institutions promoted by RB such as RPSs,
Co-operatives etc. Two Training Centers established at Kottayam and Agartala would play a vital
role in this regard with more and advanced inservice and outservice training programs. Outside
faculties would be employed to fill up the faculty requirements not available in RB. Model TSR
factory and Model Rubber wood factory and the Rubber wood testing laboratory established
constitute the Rubber and Rubber Wood Development and Training Center (RRDTC). The
Rubber products testing laboratory and RRDTC will facilitate training rubber and rubber wood
processors and product manufacturers to establish and maintain viable production units with
capability to produce intemationally acceptable products. The overseas training undergone by
about 32 scientific and 112 technical personnel of RB, 77 rubber farmers, 7 technicians from
rubber wood industry and local training by about 1300 staff mostly in computer operation would
improve the skill and quality of the personnel and output from them. The 27 consultancy studies
undertaken under the project through extemal agencies has contributed to improve the
constructions, project implementation, future developments and also baseline studies and
evaluation of project impact. The 8 Research projects resulted in reconunendation in exploitation
and sustainable rubber farming for adoption by farmers, based on large-scale experimentation. A
genome laboratory was established and sophisticated scientific equipment were provided for
research. The involvement of the State government and 2 NGOs in the Women and tribal
development program at Tripura and 10 NGOs in Women development program in Kerala by the
RB, heralded a new joint activity for the welfare of the poor and downtrodden. The 34 tribals who
underwent Diploma Course in rubber culture at Kerala Agriculture University play an important
role in capacity building among tribals in Tripura and developing the rubber plantations in
Tripura.
Physical Obiective
13.  The project fully achieved the physical objective in two major components Replanting and
New planting. 34391 ha was replanted with 32977 ha in Kerala and 1414 ha in Tamil Nadu.
51127 ha was newly planted including 33653 ha in Kerala, 9603 ha in Tripura, 984 ha in Tamil
Nadu and 6887 ha pilot plantations in selected non-traditional areas. An assistance @ Rs.6 per
polybagged plants was reimbursed to growers participating both in replanting as well as new
planting. An amount of Rs. 112.23 million was disbursed to replanting and new planting
beneficiaries as input subsidy. The targets in other components like Institutional development and
Women and tribal development were also achieved. The objective with regard to NABARD
refinance for processing could not be achieved. Even though the SAR objective of establishing
116 rubber and rubber wood factories was revised to 9 factories in the MTR, refinancing could be
provided to only 1 sheet reprocessing factory. However, the rapid growth of processing industry
during the project period resulted in formation of 44 new factories in private sector. The Model
rubber wood factory under joint sector could not be completed even though the civil construction
was more than half way through and most of the machinery including the 7 machinery provided
under the project for demonstration and training were procured. Rs.60.2 million term loan for the
factory was availed and NABARD refinance claimed. Model TSR factory was ready for
commercial production. The delay was mainly due to external factors like litigation by
contractors. The coverage of area as per the revised target at MTR under productivity
- 31 -



enhancement scheme could not be achieved in full due to low price for rubber since 1997 which
discouraged farmers from adopting costly cultural practices like fertilizer application, plant
protection etc. However, a cumulative of 333601 ha was covered under this component leading to
an increase of productivity to the tune of 379 kg per ha. The establishment of 35 Model RPSs has
contributed considerably for the grass root level processing improvements besides engaging them
as extension centers. The farmers' participatory extension delivery system was developed through
the intervention of the project. 2086 RPS and 45658 demonstration plots were established and at
the close of the project 2086 RPSs were functioning. Engaging 279 extension agents and 300
tapping assistants through RPSs helped in the devolution of extension function. About 10000 ha
were sprayed against outbreak of Corynespora leaf disease which occurred in Kerala-Kamataka
border. In Tripura alone 9590 ha rubber was newly planted. NABARD refinanced credit to the
tune of Rs.437 million for planting and allied activities in states other than Tripura. In Tripura
alone the amount refinanced by NABARD was Rs.68.1 million.
Economic and Financial Re-evaluation
14. The Board is facing difficulties in doing this work in-house and therefore an expert will have
to be engaged for this purpose.
Social Impacts
15. The target group was about 160000 small rubber growers who became permit holders of RB.
An impact study by an external agency indicated that these growers in general were more
conscious about the technical advice and also the benefits provided by the RB. They were more
eager to follow the scientific cultivation practices than the non-beneficiaries. Those who availed
agricultural inputs under the Productivity enhancement scheme also showed similar character and
the productivity of their holding increased by 379 kg per ha, an increase of 26% from base yield.
In general, economic status of beneficiaries was better than non-beneficiaries. Another important
study by an external agency on the women and tribal development program in Tripura confirmed
that the tribal discarded shifting cultivation and settled for sedentary agriculture. Their income
considerably increased compared to shifting cultivation and they succeeded in overcoming stark
poverty. The farmers in general and women in particular acquired the habit of saving and banking
through self-help group and women thrift group. There was decrease in indebtedness among the
tribal beneficiaries. The income generation activities promoted under the component with a
subsidy of Rs. 14,000/- per family had helped 4009 poor tribal families in Tripura in earning
supplementary income and participate in rubber cultivation. The infrastructure development
activities of the component helped the villagers to build link roads in their villages, construct
community halls and sink tube wells for the society and undertake electrification, provide solar
lights and sanitary latrines etc. Social activities like adult literacy, gender sensitization, health
programs etc. were undertaken along with training programs. The impact of the program had
ripple effect and tribal from neighboring villages also wanted to indulge in such programs. In the
traditional area, the women activities resulted in promoting small-scale industries, bee keeping,
handicraft etc. among the women to help them eam income and thus resulting in their
empowerment. Training was conducted on tapping and latex processing.
Environmental Impacts
16. The enviromnental objectives were largely achieved. Pollution from effluents discharged
from rubber processing factories including sheet making centers was controlled by providing
adequate effluent treatment systems in all the processing centers established under the project.
The effluent treatment system of TSR factory was designed to totally reuse the water used for
processing and this factory will be a training cum demonstration center for implementing IS09000
- 32 -



and ISO14000. Since firewood was required for drying rubber sheets the tribal rubber farmers in
Tripura were encouraged to grow firewood trees in the border of their holdings. 0.19 million
plants were planted in 155 ha area in the border of block plantations. To reduce consumption of
firewood, smokeless choolas were promoted. The effluent problems in the rubber processing
factories were being monitored with the active co-operation of the State Pollution Control Board.
Rubber is not attacked by many pests. But diseases are common. Continuous use of copper
fungicides against abnormal leaf fall disease was the major fungicide used. A study was
conducted by an external agency on the residue of copper in rubber plantations sprayed for more
than 50 years. No serious copper residue problem resulting in degradation of soil was noticed.
However, accumulation of copper was noticed to some extent but not to the level of causing
injury. This is naturally managed by the high organic content of the rubber soils. No copper
residue was found in water bodies within and even far away from the plantations.
B. Major factors affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to Government control
17. The complicated procedures involved in procurement of materials and consultancies resulted
in considerable paper work through invitation for bids, bid evaluation, preparation of reports and
minutes of review committee meetings and approvals at different stages. The bid documents for
procurements were mostly voluminous and the stipulations and procedures to be followed were
many. Due to this reason, many prospective bidders refrained from bidding especially from
countries where English language is not common. The procedures may be simplified. The bidders
may be given a chance to correct their mistakes in providing bid security or other essential
documents on opening the bids. Negotiations and alterations in technical and financial bids were
not allowed. Negotiations may be allowed to rectify the deficiencies in the technical bid without
altering the financial bid, so that the lowest bidder is not declared non-responsive.
18. There has been considerable delay in the construction of the Rubber and Rubber Wood
Processing factories since some local residents objected to the same and approached the court to
stop the construction activity. Even though the contractors were selected as per WB procedures,
the contractors were not found to be upto the mark and capable of executing the work efficiently,
correctly and speedily. Due to this reason, one contract had to be terminated and another
contractor had to pay liquidated damages for the delay. The World Bank procedure had to be
further refined for works costing more than Rs. 10 million to identify those who were really
equipped with machinery for speedy execution of work. Similarly, the evaluation of consultants as
per WB procedures also resulted in selecting some consultants who could not produce reports as
per the requirements in the TOR. There was no provision to examine the previous consultancy
reports of the bidders. Due to this reason, 3 consultancies had to be terminated. The evaluation
procedures of the bids for consultancy were to be further refined. The volatility of rubber prices
to some extent adversely affected the project.
Factors generally subject to Government control
19. Even though the WB appraisal team approved a requirement of 193 additional posts for the
execution of the project, GOI sanctioned only 90 posts due to the general national policy of
reducing personnel in Government Departments. For the effective execution of the project, the
service of non-project officers and staff of RB were also utilized. But WB did not agree to meet
the operational costs of these officers and staff. GOI evolved a price support mechanism through
market intervention by the STC. This action resulted in only a minor impact. On an average WB
reimbursed only about 68% of the project expenditure and GOI provided the rest 32% as
- 33 -



budgetary allocation. The WB procedures for procurement were different from the normal
Government procedures. However, GOI and Accountant General did not direct RB to strictly
follow the Government procedure. The Staff Inspection Unit of the Ministry of Finance evaluated
the staff requirement for the sustainability of the project activities and achievements. GOI may
approve the same.
20. A flexibility in interest rate would have helped in making the line of credit more attractive
resulting in better participation under the project component.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
21. The Board was implementing the project with external assistance for the first time and there
was no trained manpower conversant with the Bank's procurement procedures, project monitoring
systems, handling enviromental issues etc. Avoiding delays in vetting of proposals by NABARD
also could have helped in achieving better results.
Cost changes (Actual versus Appraisal)
22. Since the exchange value of Indian Rupee was steadily increasing against US Dollar from
the start of the project till the end, the value of the IDA credit increased considerably allowing
greater fund and flexibility in allocation of fund. WB was liberal in reallocation of funds during
MTR and subsequent Missions. This has helped in diversifying, reorienting and expanding the
project activities to bring about very useful changes.
Implementation Schedule (Actual versus Appraisal)
23. During the initial years, there was delay in execution of the project as the staff of RB were
learning the complicated procedures of the WB. Inadequate computerization was also a reason for
not implementing the project speedily. However, with respect to two major components,
replanting and new planting, steady progress over and above the target was made inspite of a
decrease in planting activity due to low prices of rubber in the last three years of the project. Civil
constructions did not progress as per milestones for the reasons stated earlier. The 35 Model RPS
and Women development programn in the traditional area could be completed in time inspite of the
late start.
D. Sustainability
24.  The likelihood of sustainability is very high as the project activities were time slice of the
Five-year Plans. Due to policy aspects of the project agreement, the Cess for rubber was
increased 3 folds and this would fetch adequate fund for sustaining the activities of the project,
even though the Cess fund would be allocated by GOI as budgetary allocation for RB. Subsidies
provided under the project had been progressively reduced and adequate institutional strengthening
has been carried out. Already action has been taken to provide adequate personnel to continue
those activities to be sustained through the study of Staff Inspection Unit of Ministry of Finance.
GOI is expected to allow continuance of adequate number of posts. Almost all activities in the
project are included in the IX Five-year Plan.
E. World Bank performance
Identification and Preparation
25.  Satisfactory. The Bank responded positively to the project report prepared by the RB in
1991. In the appraisal of the Bank in 1992, the overall economic growth and poverty alleviation
for the macroeconomics restructuring was aimed at. The other objectives were increased
- 34 -



allocation for research, improving efficiency of public sector, appropriate targeting of resources,
delivery support system to the poor and enabling RB to undertake rural development. It was also
envisaged to introduce new internationally practiced rubber production and processing techniques.
The efficiency of rubber sector was to be improved by achieving increased yield, lower cost of
production and providing better quality processed rubber. Sustainable use of natural resources
(soil and water), on and off farm employment generation, assist economic development of tribal
people in Tripura through rubber cultivation, reduce shifting cultivation in Tripura and
appropriate policy changes to make the rubber industry internationally competitive were also
envisaged.
Appraisal
26. Satisfactory. Even though most of the important aspects of rubber industry were covered in
the appraisal, suitable modifications were made in the project during the MTR and subsequent
Missions and reallocation of funds also was allowed. The shortcoming in the processing
component was compensated by the good development in the private sector during the project
period. However, the Bank allowed establishment of a Model TSR factory and Rubber wood
processing factory. 7 machinery for demonstration and training in the joint sector rubber wood
factory was provided under the project. A Rubber product and a Rubber wood testing laboratories
were established for international certification of these products.
Supervision
27. Satisfactory. The regular half-yearly Supervision Mission and also other Missions in
between had helped in regular monitoring of the progress of the project. The Supervision Missions
consisted of experts in different fields including environment and sociology so that all aspects of
the project in general were taken care of. However, expertise in various Mission to supervise
processing component effectively was found lacking. It was felt that most of the documents of the
Bank especially on procurement were voluminous and considerable time was required to read and
note the important points and procedures. Hence, it is proposed that the documents may be
prepared in a concise manner mostly in bullets so that the important points were noted at a glance
and proper action taken. The change of Task Managers during the Project period could have been
avoided to ensure smooth continuity of supervision. During many Missions it was observed that
the broader objective of the SAR could not be fully comprehended by the Mission members and
the Task Manager. Emphasis on procedural nittygritties led to loosing sight of the project
objectives. It is felt desirable to have the Bank officials/consultants who appraised the project to
be associated in the Missions during the initial periods of implementation. It is also advisable to
have projects for tree crops designed for at least 7-8 years. If the request for the second extension
was agreed to it would have been possible to consolidate the new initiatives taken up during the
project. However, it has to be mentioned that the flexibility shown by the various Missions have
contributed to the good progress achieved.
F. Borrowers Performance
Preparation
28. Highly satisfactory. The borrower was an organization serving the rubber industry for the
past 53 years and had enough insight into the needs of the industry for the present and future.
Moreover, the project was envisaged as a time slice of five-year plans. These have helped in the
proper utilization of the IDA fund for the prospects of the industry.
Implementation
- 35 -



29. Highly satisfactory. In the two major components, achievement exceeded the targets. There
was delay in civil construction of Training Centers and factories mainly due to factors beyond the
control of the Board. The number of additional personnel sanctioned for the implementation of the
project was less than 50% recommended by the Bank. This also to some extent affected the
implementation. The decrease in price of the NR since 1997 also affected certain components. In
general progress was satisfactory and the envisaged program completed, except in the case of
Model Rubber wood factory in Joint Sector.
Compliance with legal covenants
30.Compliance was highly satisfactory. The input subsidy under the component productivity
enhancement was gradually phased out. Polybag subsidy is being reduced by Re. I per plant from
the year 2000-01 onwards. The market intervention by GOI by procuring rubber through STC
was continued. A consultancy study has been made on the introduction of a new trading system to
reduce price uncertainty in rubber and appropriate policy decision will be taken by RB and GOI in
this regard subsequently. The Cess has been increased from 50 paise per kg. to Rs. 1.50 per kg.
for funding the sustained activities of the project.
G. Assessment of Outcome
31. The overall outcome of the project is highly satisfactory.
H. Plan of Future Operation
32.  Description and Evaluation: RB has long-term plan for future operations through the
five-year plans. Adequate funds are expected to be provided by GOI as budgetary
allocation. The SIU of the Ministry of Finance has completed a study on the staff
requirements for future activity. A five-year training plan vetted by an expert has already
been drawn up for human resource development. In factories established ISO 9000 and
14000 would be implemented.
33.  Future Performance Indicators  The Bank's supervisory methodology has helped the
borrower to streamline physical indicators for evaluating the progress and performance of a
project. Improved physical and performance indicators will be formulated for the review of
Plan schemes and activities. Half-yearly performance review of Plan schemes will be
carried out. The computerization program of RB would help in speedy administration. The
monitoring system also will be computerized through a program of MIS.
34.  Recommended follow up:   The Planning and Statistics Dept. has to be strengthened
further as the main monitoring department of the RB on progress of Plan. Planning would
be based on certain policies and strategies formulated as per the existing situations in the
rubber industry for the Five year Plan and Annual plan. The objectives will be defined and
plan schemes prepared to achieve the objectives. A separate cell would carry out studies on
the impact of globalisation, free trade and WTO agreement and advise the RB appropriately
well in advance on the risks and prospects. The two land use studies conducted by
NBSS-LUP, Nagpur for Tripura and Kerala and Tamil Nadu will be utilized for future
expansion of rubber area in these regions and also for optimizing production through
appropriate agro-technologies including regional fertilizer recommendation. The report and
the software of the study on cost of production of rubber will be utilized to evaluate cost of
- 36 -



production as time series action and identify cost saving and income earning methods.
I. Key lessons learned
35. Remunerative price for rubber is the prime requirement for the growth of rubber plantation
industry. The Marketing Division of the RB has to be strengthened for regularly monitoring price
fluctuations and identify the reasons for the same. The impact of international production and
consumption of rubber on Indian rubber industry would be monitored regularly. Proper action
will be initiated to correct any serious abnormal changes noticed.
36. Greater emphasis would be given to improvement of quality of raw rubber and finished
products and make them internationally competitive. Export promotion of raw rubber and finished
product by establishing a database for the market information is to be implemented.
37. The progress of annual plan and five-year plan is to be monitored at regular intervals of at
least 6 months to ensure good progress using physical and performance indicators.
38. Subsidy for promoting any activity would be slowly withdrawn once the activity is accepted
and well established.
39. Accelerated dissemination of the findings in research will be carried out.
40. Human resource development of both inservice personnel of the RB and personnel of rubber
industry would be carried out on a regular basis. The inservice personnel have to be trained at the
pre-entry time and in every five years in the post entry period. Training programs for all personnel
in the rubber industry including managerial, supervisory and worker level and also group activities
such as RPSs and Co-operatives are to be formulated and conducted regularly. More emphasis
would be laid on on-field training than training in training centers.
41. Farmers' participatory extension delivery system through RPSs would be strengthened to
reach the nook and corner of villages by encouraging farmer to fanner extension.
42. At least once in five years the impact of yearly and five yearly plans to be got evaluated by an
external agency as a consultancy study.
43. More involvement of NGOs would be ensured for promoting poverty alleviation programs
related to rubber plantations. Self-help groups and Women thrift groups are to be encouraged.
44. Income generation activities like inter-cropping, bee keeping, poultry, animal husbandry etc.
will be encouraged and promoted for economically sustaining the farmers during immaturity
period of rubber and earning additional income.
45. Line of credit will be introduced only after discussion and consultation with beneficiaries and
designed as per their requirements.
46. Need of an integrated approach particularly for programs connected with tribal development.
- 37 -



- 38 -



