Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2409 IN
                         Project Agreement
                         (Rubber Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                         THE RUBBER BOARD
                       Dated August 12, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2409 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the RUBBER BOARD (the
Board).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to sixty-six million four hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 66,400,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the Board agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (NABARD) (the NABARD Agreement) NABARD has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project; and
      WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Board declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A (ii), B (ii), C, E and F, and shall assist NABARD in the
carrying out of Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Board shall
otherwise agree, the Board shall carry out Parts A (ii), B (ii), C,
E and F of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Board shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement
and Parts A (ii), B (ii), C, E and F of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Board shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Board shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Board of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                            Article III
              Management and Operations of the Board
      Section 3.01. The Board shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. The Board shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
      Section 3.03. The Board shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Page  3
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Board shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial conditions in respect of
Parts A (ii), B (ii), C, E and F of the Project.
      (b)   The Board shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association.
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Board thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify The
Board of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
Page  4
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For the Board:
            The Rubber Board
            Shastri Road
            P.O. Box 280
            Kottayam 686001
            Kerala, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  RUBRBOARD                 888 205
                                            RUBR IN
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Board, may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of the Board or such other person or persons as the Board
shall designate in writing, and the Board shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Cosmas L. Robless
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  THE RUBBER BOARD
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                      Implementation Program
1.    For the purposes of implementation coordination and monitoring
Page  5
progress of the Project, the Board shall (i) establish a Project
Coordination Unit, with responsibilities and staff acceptable to the
Association, and (ii) appoint a Project Coordinator with qualifi-
cations and experience, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    For the purpose of assisting in carrying out Part F of the
Project, the Board shall select NGOs, in accordance with procedures
and criteria agreed with the Association.
3.    The Board shall (i) prepare, not later than March 31, 1994 and
furnish to the Association, for the Association's review and
comments, a five-year training plan, which shall be updated annually
three months before the start of the fiscal year, in consultation
with outside agencies participating in the training program, and
(ii) thereafter implement such a plan.
4.    Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Board shall prepare and furnish to the
Association starting December 31, 1993, during Project imple-
mentation, quarterly and annual reports on the progress of the
Project, in form and substance agreed with the Association.
5.    The Board shall, in conjunction with the Association and in
accordance with terms of reference and methodology satisfactory to
the Association, undertake and complete by December 31, 1995 a mid-
term review of the Project, and, shall, promptly thereafter, carry
out the agreed recommendations of such review in a manner acceptable
to the Association.
6.    The Board shall, not later than December 31, 1997, or such
later date as may be agreed by the Association and the Board, phase
out the polybag subsidy provided by the Board to rubber growers.
7.    The Board shall, in accordance with a timetable agreed with
the Association, phase out the input subsidies provided by the Board
to smallholder rubber growers.
8.   The Board shall, not later than March 31, 1994, prepare and
furnish to the Association, for the Association's review and
comments a plan for monitoring of copper residues in soil and water
from selected locations within the Project States.
9.    The Board shall, not later than March 31, 1994, appoint other
incremental staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association.
10.   The Board shall, not later than December 31, 1993, enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with TRPC
and TFDPC for assisting in establishing new rubber planting in
Tripura under Part B of the Project.
11.   The Board shall select the recipients of the planting
assistance under Parts A (ii) and B (ii) of the Project in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                       Key Incremental Staff
Designation                                           No. of Posts
      Rubber Production Department
1.    Deputy Rubber Production Commissioner                 4
2.    Development Officer                                   2
3.    Assistant Development Officer                         6
4.    Field Officer                                        10
Page  6
      Project Coordination Unit
5.    Joint Director (Statistics and Planning)              1
6.    Accounts Officer                                      1
