Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2409 IN
                         Project Agreement
                         (Rubber Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
        NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 12, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2409 IN
                     NABARD PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1993 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL BANK FOR
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (NABARD).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-six
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 66,400,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, provided that NABARD agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Rubber Board (the Board), the Board has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project;
      (C)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NABARD, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to NABARD on the terms and conditions to be set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS NABARD, in consideration of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. NABARD declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, with the assistance of the
Board, carry out Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural credit
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      Section 2.02. (a) NABARD shall enter into Participation
Agreements for on-lending the part of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, to the Participating Banks in accordance with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association including those set out
in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
      (b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NABARD
shall, through the Participation Agreements, ensure that the
relevant Participating Bank shall (i) select the Sub-borrowers, and
provide Project Sub-loans in respect of Sub-projects which shall
first have been appraised by the concerned Participating Bank, in
accordance with procedures and criteria acceptable to the
Association, including those set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement; and (ii) make the Project Sub-loans on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      (c)   NABARD shall exercise its rights under the arrangements
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section in such manner
as to (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and
NABARD; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
NABARD shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
      Section 2.04. NABARD shall submit reports of such appraisals
of Sub-projects by Participating Banks as may reasonably be
requested by the Association from time to time, for review by the
Association; provided, however, that (i) the first three Sub-loans
under Part D of the Project, and (ii) every Sub-project under Part
D of the Project for which a Sub-loan in an amount of $500,000
equivalent or more, shall be subject to prior approval by the
Association.
      Section 2.05. (a) NABARD shall cause the Participating Banks
(i) to maintain separate accounts for the Sub-loans provided under
Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project, (ii) to have such accounts
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
Page  3
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association, and (iii) to furnish to  the Association,
through NABARD, as soon as available, and except as the Association
and NABARD shall otherwise agree, not later than six months after
the end of each such year certified copies of the reports of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as NABARD
shall have reasonably requested.
      (b)   NABARD shall furnish to the Association such information
concerning the Sub-projects as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
      Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.07. NABARD shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement and
Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project.
      Section 2.08. NABARD shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, NABARD shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.09. (a) NABARD shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   NABARD shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
NABARD of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of NABARD
      Section 3.01. NABARD shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. NABARD shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) NABARD shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts A (i), B (i)
and D of the Project (and of each sub-project including its cost and
the benefit derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition in
respect of Parts A (i), B (i) and D of the Project.
      (b)   NABARD shall:
Page  4
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      Section 4.02 NABARD shall establish and implement, not later
than January 31, 1994, procedures satisfactory to the Association
for segregation of the rubber accounts.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NABARD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NABARD
of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
Page  5
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For NABARD:
            National Bank for Agriculture and
                  Rural Development
            Sterling Center, Dr. Annie Besant Road
            Worli, Bombay-400018
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  AGREFINANS                11-73770 NABIN
                  BOMBAY, India
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NABARD may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as NABARD shall
designate in writing, and NABARD shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Cosmas L. Robless
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND
                   RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
              Principal Lending Terms and Conditions;
                        Selection Criteria
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the terms and
conditions of on-lending shall be as follows:
      A.    On-lending from
            Borrower to NABARD
            Interest Rate:                7 percent per annum.
Page  6
            Amortization Period:          lump sum repayment of
                                          entire principal in not
                                          more than 15 years.
      B.    Re-lending from NABARD to
            Participating Banks
            Amount Refinanced:            a maximum of 95% of each
                                          Sub-loan made by
                                          Participating Banks.
            Interest Rate:                a margin of 4.5 to 6.5
                                          percent between NABARD's
                                          refinancing rate, and
                                          Participating Bank's
                                          lending rate to Sub-
                                          borrowers.
            Amortization Period:          a maximum of 15 years
                                          including 7 years'
                                          grace.
      C.    Sub-loans from Participating
            Banks to Sub-borrowers
            (i)   For Replanting and New Planting
                  Amount financed:        up to 100% of investment
                                          cost.
                  Interest Rate:          as determined by the
                                          Reserve Bank of India
                                          (RBI) Guidelines.
                  Amortization Period:    a maximum of 15 years,
                                          including 7 to 8 years'
                                          grace.
            (ii)  For Processing
                  Amount financed:        a maximum of 75% of
                                          investment cost.
                  Interest Rate:          as determined by RBI's
                                          Guidelines.
                  Amortization Period:    10 years, including 3
                                          years' grace.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Participating Banks and Sub-borrowers under Parts A (i), B (i) and
D of the Project shall be selected in accordance with the following
criteria:
A.    Participating Banks:
      (i)   Participating Banks to have separate accounts for rubber
            Sub-loans reflecting both disbursements and recoveries
            (principal and interest).
     (ii)   Project State's contributions, or any other subsidies,
            would not in any way be applied or counted as cash
            recoveries for ultimate Sub-borrowers for the purposes
            of eligibility for NABARD refinancing.
B.   Sub-Borrowers:
      (a)   For Replanting
Page  7
            (i)   sub-borrowers shall be owning no more than 5 ha
                  of land, and no less than 0.1 ha, with clear
                  title to land;
           (ii)   sub-borrowers shall have removed all old
                  uneconomic rubber trees;
          (iii)   Board shall have certified suitability of land
                  for rubber replanting; and
           (iv)   the investment shall have a financial rate of
                  return of at least 15%.
      (b)   For New Planting
            (i)   sub-borrowers shall be private growers with clear
                  title to land;
           (ii)   Board shall have certified suitability of land
                  for rubber planting; and
          (iii)   the investment shall have a minimum financial
                  rate of return of at least 15%.
      (c)   For Processing
            (i)   sub-borrowers shall have been certified by the
                  Board to have expertise in rubber processing;
           (ii)   sub-borrowers shall have obtained a license from
                  the Board;
          (iii)   sub-borrowers shall agree to the Board guidelines
                  for the establishment and operation of each
                  factory; and
           (iv)   the investment shall have a financial rate of
                  return of at least 15%.
