Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICLAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13769
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3030-CH)
DECEMBER 9, 1994
Country Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch $)
Average Exchange Rates
(per US dollars)
1985                      US$1          =            Ch$       161.08
1986                      US$1          =            Ch$       193.02
1987                      US$1          =            Ch$       219.41
1988                      US$1          =            Ch$       245.01
1989                      US$1          =            Ch$       266.95
1990                      US$1          -            Ch$       304.90
1991                      US$1          -            Ch$       349.22
1992                      US$1          =            Ch$       362.58
1993                      US$1          =            Ch$       404.17
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIOSAND ACRONYM
ASP                   Subsidy Certificates Program
BHP                   Basic Housing Program
MINVU                 Ministry of Housing and Urbanism
SERVIUs               Regional Offices of MINVU
UF                    Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Indexation Unit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 9, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Chile
Second Housing Sector Project (Loan 3030-CH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Chile - Second Housing Sector Project (Loan
3030-CH) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
This project was the second Bank loan made to support a Chilean government program
designed to make housing affordable to the poor through up-front subsidies. The US$200 million
loan approved in March 1989 was fully disbursed before the closing date of June 1993. This rapid
disbursement profile was due both to the pent-up demand for housing in Chile, a sector constantly
encouraged by the authorities, and to the nature of the project which was to refinance housing loans
and subsidies, themselves disbursed upfront at settlement. The use of competent local intermediaries
(the Ministry of Housing and various banks) ensured smooth disbursements.
The project showed the same mixed results as the first project, i.e. adequate implementation
of project objectives but low recovery from debtors and little progress in the scope and depth of the
housing finance system. Largely because of a widespread perception that the government would not
evict bad debtors, arrears have been mounting on the loan portion administered by the Ministry of
Housing.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as uncertain and its
institutional impact as negligible.
The PCR gives a satisfactory account of the reasons for the mixed project outcome and the
uncertain sustainability of the low-income housing finance window. The project will be audited in
this fiscal year.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of]
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.1






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROIECT COMLETION REPORT
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3030-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ..............................................  i
Evaluation Summary ..................................... H
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... .....  1
A.    Project Identity  .....................................    1
B.    Background  .......................................   1
C.    Project Objectives and Description  .........................    3
D.    Project Design and Organization   ..........................    4
E.    Project Implementation  ................................   5
F.    Lessons Learned from  the Implementation Process  ...............    7
G.    Project Results  .....................................   8
H.    Project Sustainability   .................................   8
1.     Bank Performance  ...................................   9
J.     Borrower Performance  ................................    9
K.    Project Relationship  ..................................  10
L.    Project Documentation and Data  ..........................  10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . 10
A.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance  .........................  10
B.    Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance  ....................  10
C.    Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower ....                     11
PART m:  STATISTICAL   NFORMATION  .....................   12
A.    Related Bank Loans  ..................................  12
B.    Project Timetable   ...................................  12
D.    Project Implementation  ................................  13
F.    Project Costs and Financing  .............................  14
G.    Project Results  .....................................  14
H.    Status of Covenants  ..................................  15
I.     Use of Bank Resources  ................................  18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROTECT
(LOAN 3030-CH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Housing Sector
Project in Chile, for which Loan 3030-CH in the amount of US$200 million was
approved in March 28, 1989, and became effective on June 16, 1989. The loan was
closed on June 30, 1993, as originally planned and was fully disbursed by January 7,
1993.
This PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division, Department IV of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (LA4CO) and is based, in  alia, on
the President's and the Appraisal Reports, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, final project analyses prepared by
the Borrower, and internal Bank documents and memoranda.
The Government of Chile submitted Part II, Project Review from Borrowers's
Perspective on February 11, 1994.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHIIL
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3030-CH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project, the second Bank-financed housing sector operation
in Chile, were to support the efforts of the Government to: (a) increase the stock of
housing for low-income people; (b) offer a variety of new housing types to meet the
needs and preferences of low income people; (c) introduce programs to upgrade the
existing housing stock for the benefit of existing residents; (d) improve cost recovery by
increasing mortgage collections and reducing upfront subsidy levels; and (e) improve the
efficiency and private resource mobilization.
Implementation Experience
2.    The Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) was the executing agency in
charge of project implementation. With the exception of the objective of increasing the
stock of housing for low-income people,the number of housing units built during project
execution exceeded appraisal targets, the other project objectives have not been met. The
most disappointing aspect of the project was that cost recovery did not improve and
remained well below targets set in the Loan Agreement.
3.    The Legal Agreement with the Bank set collection performance targets and
stipulated that MINVU would proceed with legal actions against debtors. However,
shortly after taking office, the new Chilean president declared in June 1990 that he was
granting debt relief to the poor in the social sectors, including housing, water, light and
education.
4.    After much discussion with the Borrower, the Bank agreed to a final renegotiation
for pre-1989 debtors who could justify economic need, with the understanding that,
beginning in 1991, the Government would take a series of measures to ensure compliance
with project goals. In the event, the measures taken by the Government to improve the
collection performance of MINVU proved to be unsuccessful and its arrears position
continued to deteriorate.
5.    Even with a 75% explicit subsidy and segmentation of MINVU's portfolio to
show pre-1983, 1983-89 and post 1989 accounts (to reflect later improved management,



- iii -
screening and selection procedures), the average arrears of 90 days or more was greater
than 70% for every group at project completion.
6.    Notwithstanding the above, the Chilean system has continued to maintain several
interesting features which bear positively on the transparency and efficiency in
implementation. In particular some aspects of Chile's beneficiary selection system for
the housing and certificate program could serve as a model for other projects, although
the above-mentioned problem of recovery of non-subsidized investments would need to
be addressed. Also, in site visits during supervision missions, it was found that a
significant proportion of beneficiaries were renting their entire unit and living elsewhere -
a problem which would also need to be addressed.
Sustainability
7.    The sustainability of the project has been significantly affected by the poor
collection performance of MINVU. The collection performance of Banco del Estado and
the lack of participation by private banks in the subsidy program also impacted negatively
on project sustainability. On the other hand, substitution of private developers (instead
of using government force-account construction workers) and a transparent beneficiary
selection system constituted a very positive development of the Chilean system and have
led to significant efficiency and better targeting of resources, improved designs for the
units constructed, and lowered the overall cost to beneficiaries.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8.    This project provides another example of the socio-economic and political
difficulties of implemeting housing sector operations even when many of the policies
seem to be well-designed at the outset. MINVU was either not willing or able to take
the measures necessary to improve its arrears position; it was not even able to evict those
in arrears who were identified as having the resources to pay their mortgages. Also,
even with an acquired equity position approaching 90% (75 % subsidy plus
downpayment), many householders were still reluctant to pay their mortgages because
of expectations of limited governmental collection efforts.
9.    The Chilean case is also instructive in showing that, after several decades of
trying various systems, the government continued to use budgeted funds complemented
by individual savings incentives for downpayments, as other schemes involving
commercial banks or specialized institutions for financing, yielded the usual problems of
term and rate mismatching, unpredictable flow of resources, etc.
10.   Evidence suggests that there was a real problem for low-income groups; as a
result, the Chilean government decided as a matter of public policy to provide direct
budgetary resources for the respective housing programs. For the subsidy certificates



- iv -
program (ASP), which involved relatively higher-income households than the basic
housing program (BHP), the government was unable to attract sufficient interest among
commercial lenders in spite of various mortgage guarantees. Ultimately, it was the
Banco del Estado, a public bank, which provided most of the complementary loans for
the ASP program. Given the long MINVU legacy of unwillingness to foreclose on
housing loans and the repeated loan restructurings, the Bank should have been more
skeptical about accepting new promises of better performance on loan recoveries. A
better course of action may be for the public sector to provide well-targeted explicit
subsidies, without entering directly into housing finance per  . A public agency is
highly vulnerable to political interference, thus the Bank should be extremely cautious
in accepting promises of improved loan recovery.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3030-CH)
CHILE
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Name          : Housing II
Loan Number  : 3030-CH
RVP Unit      : Latin America and the Caribbean
Country       : Chile
Sector        : Housing
B.   Background
1.    Bank lending to Chile for housing began in 1984 with a US$80 million First
Housing Sector Project (Loan 2482-CH). The primary purpose of that project was to
support the Government's efforts to soften the severe effects of the recession at that time,
while substantially reducing subsidies under its housing construction program. The PCR
for loan considered the overall project performance satisfactory, but noted that the
subsidy reduction had not gone as far as expected, and that the Government's
management of the large mortgage portfolio for lower-income beneficiaries remained
unsatisfactory. OED's Project Performance Audit Report noted that the Bank had been
flexible in offering support a housing program targeting low-income urban dwellers
through large subsidies; while this may have been justified, the PPAR questioned the
wisdom of extending that support through operations under the same premises.
2.    The Government at that time divided the housing market into two basic segments,
one focussing on the very poor whose needs were not being addressed by commercial
institutions, and the other for relatively wealthier beneficiaries who, had varying degrees
of access to commercial institutions. For the former group, the Government designated
the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) as the primary financing and shelter
provider; the banking system was to provide much of the financing for the other group,
with help from MINVU and the beneficiaries themselves, and with private contractors
providing the housing units. To avoid any mismatching problems, the government
stipulated that for commercial bank mortgages, institutions had to issue 'letras de credito
hipotecario' with cash flow characteristics similar to those of the mortgage loans made.
However, the "letras" were to be liabilities of the issuing institution, which would be
more related to the financial soundness of the institution than to the specific mortgages
it issued.



- 2 -
3.    Chile's housing program presented an opportunity to address a wide range of
shelter issues, emphasizing financial and administrative sector policy issues. The first
housing loan in 1984 was to help consolidate sector changes being made and to more
sharply define the Government's role. It achieved many of its original goals, but did not
succeed in eliminating housing subsidies despite some progress in streamlining the
subsidy program (by reducing the number of such programs, avoiding duplication of
coverage, etc.), and reducing the per unit subsidy offered. This was one of the first
instances of the Bank is financing an explicit housing subsidy program, on a transitional
basis with the understanding that it was to be replaced by a non-subsidized system by the
time the project ended.
4.    During implementation the first loan, it became clear that recovery the non-
subsidized subloan amounts was a problem. However, at the time, much of MINVU's
problem portfolio comprised previous loans made by predecessor institutions. Two other
factors having an impact upon the arrears problem were the 1982-83 recession and the
limited administrative and technical capacity of the SERVIUs (regional offices of
MINVU) to manage an active collection and enforcement system using incomplete
account data and inadequate staff and equipment. Even before the first project, MINVU
had already begun to address some of these deficiencies, by implementing an improved
screening and selection process (which qualified beneficiaries based on their social and
financial condition) and hiring consultants to strengthen the operation of the SERVIUs.
MINVU's staff also felt that given the low mortgage to housing unit value, if needed,
the existing loan portfolio could easily be sold (possibly at a discount) to other financial
institutions and this would eliminate its arrears problem.
5.    The 1982-83 economic crisis resulted, inter alia, in trauma to the financial sector,
threatening the failure of many banks. The Government stepped in to provide liquidity
to these institutions, and final borrowers were allowed to renegotiate the terms and
conditions of their loans. While the need for such assistance may have been justified by
conditions at that time, it created an unfortunate precedent which has had some very
long-lasting adverse consequences leading to several subsequent renegotiations and
various discount and incentive packages to borrowers to avoid arrears.
6.   In the case of MINVU's housing loans, in spite of the improved screening and
selection measures, loan management procedures were not very strong and so both
existing and new clients continued to build up arrears. The Government used debt
rescheduling to clean up their accounts. Since MINVU's investments came from annual
budgetary allocations, it had no cash-flow or profitability problems to worry about from
these reschedulings. Thus, between 1983 and 1988 there were eight separate laws and
regulations which provided beneficiaries with various incentives and additional mortgage
discounts for them to clear up their arrears through rescheduling.



- 3 -
7.    A Second Housing Sector Project for US$200 million was approved by the Bank
in 1989 to provide further assistance to the Govemment for its housing construction
program, with a view to substantially increasing mortgage collections and improving the
mobilization of private housing finance resources. The project supported a slice of the
MINVU program, with emphasis on low-income beneficiaries; housing programs under
the Second Project were essentially the same as in the First Project. The loan was
negotiated during one government, but most of its implementation took place under its
successor, which caused some discontinuity.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
8.    The objectives of the project, were to support the efforts of the Government to:
'a) increase the stock and variety of housing for low income people; (b) introduce options
to upgrade the existing housing stock for the benefit of existing residents; (c) improve
cost recovery by increasing mortgage collections and reducing upfront subsidy levels; and
(d) improve the efficiency and mobilization of private finance resources.
9.    MINVU receives government budgeting funds to finance its Basic Housing
Program (BHP) and to issue subsidy certificates (ASP) to assist families requesting bank
loans for houses built by private contractors. For the BHP, MINVU buys finished units
in the market from contractors who meet certain minimum norms and standards; MINVU
then sells these units to beneficiaries who meet qualifying criteria (amount of prior
savings, subsidy required, gender of household head, condition of existing unit, income,
profile, etc.). The Government grants an explicit subsidy by discounting up to 75% of
the unit cost and signing a mortgage contract for the remaining amount in an indexed
monetary unit (the Unidad de Fomento or UF), with terms (average of 8.5% for 20
years) similar to commercial ones. For the ASP program, beneficiaries also earn points
based upon prior savings, subsidy requested, income level, etc.; but, instead of a turnkey
unit, MINVU distributes subsidy certificates to those having the most points. Along with
prior savings, the beneficiary then uses the certificate (as a bank voucher) to seek
complementary bank financing and arrange construction or purchase of his or her unit.
10.   While MINVU's obligation to ASP beneficiaries ends with the handing over of
the subsidy certificate, under the Basic Housing Program it has the obligation to collect
the non-subsidized portion of unit costs through its regional offices (SERVIUs). In terms
of sums involved, the ASP certificates ranged from US$1,400 to US$2,700 for units
whose cost generally cannot exceed US$7,200. In practice, because of the limited
amount of total funds available, cost restrictions on units which are eligible, and higher
points granted for smaller subsidy requests, ASP certificates usually do not exceed 25%
of the final unit cost and many are for smaller amounts. The pre-subsidized cost of the
BHP units averages about US$3,000, with the actual amount to be financed by the
beneficiaries being about US$750.



- 4 -
11.   The project included all of the investments of MINVU in the housing sector for
1989-92. Specific components included: (a) the provision of upfront subsidy certificates
to increase the access of lower and moderate income families, as well as rural families
to housing constructed by the private sector; (b) the production by the private sector of
basic houses of different sizes and finishes for allocation to families in the absolute-
poverty group; and (c) home improvement loans for existing houses.
D.   Project Design and Organization
12.   When the Bank was asked to participate in a second housing loan, the main focus
was to be on improving transparency and cost recovery through reducing subsidies, and
providing of a wider range of shelter solutions (land titling, settlement upgrading, home
improvement loans, urbanized lots with basic units) for those who did not qualify for
completed units. Also, in order to have a well-functioning system, consultants were to
be hired to work with the various regional offices to improve their accounts-management
and legal follow-up activities. Target recovery figures were set and an incentive program
was developed to reward regions with good records and penalize those not meeting the
agreed targets (which sought to reduce the proportion of post-1989 project beneficiaries
in arrears of 120 days or more to no more than 30% in 1989 and 1990, 25% in 1991,
and 20% after that). MINVU also agreed not to have any additional general rescheduling
after 1988. By January 1990, consultants had finally compiled a full list of all of
MINVU's mortgage debtors and the system of computerization of regional offices was
well-advanced. Also, based on household surveys, the consultants had compiled a list
of about 40,000 beneficiaries identified as having resources but not paying their
mortgages.
13.   Although project objectives were in tune with those of the Chilean Government
at the time and with Bank policies, there was considerable worry on the Bank during
project preparation about the ability of the implementing agencies to achieve these
objectives, particularly with respect to cost recovery. MINVU's loan management
procedures were not strong and thus new and existing beneficiaries continued to build up
arrears while the Govemment resorted to debt rescheduling in order to clean up its loan
portfolio accounts. Since MINVU's investments were funded by budgetary allocations,
the profitability and cash-flow aspects were not taken into account. Between 1983 and
1988 there had been eight separate laws and regulations which provided discounts and
various incentives for beneficiaries to clear up their arrears through rescheduling. To
improve the functioning of the system, improvement of accounting and legal activities
of the regional offices was considered necessary.



- 5-
E.   Project Implementation
14.   MINVU was responsible for project execution, through its regional SERVIUJs.
The legal agreements with the Bank stipulated that MINVU would proceed legally against
debtors in order to improve its collection record. However, shortly after taking office,
the new Chilean president declared in June 1990 that he was granting debt relief to the
poor in the social sectors: (housing, water, light and education).
15.   Several arguments were put forward by MINVU to justify the need for this
decision. Among these, the government claimed that the approximately 70% of accounts
in arrears of 90 days or more was costing too much to administer and could not be sold
on the market even with steep discounts. Additionally, the claim was made that poor
beneficiaries could not afford to pay 25% of their income for housing; govemment
surveys indicated that many beneficiaries were able to bear only about 6%. Fulfillment
of an election promise by President Aylwin was considered. Since MINVU's loans could
not be sold as originally expected, the new government decided to give beneficiaries a
final package of incentives to help them meet their obligations, after which it promised
to take a series of measures aimed at better screening and targeting beneficiaries and
legally enforcing compliance with debt obligations. After much discussion, the Bank
decided not to suspend the loan. Rather, the Bank agreed to a final renegotiation for pre-
1989 debtors who could justify economic need and with the understanding that, beginning
in 1991, the government would take action to ensure compliance with project goals.
16.   With regard to transparency and efficiency in implementation, Chile's beneficiary
selection system for the housing and certificate program has several features that could
serve as a model to other countries. Apart from 8% of the units which the housing
minister and regional officials can allocate on an emergency (discretionary) basis, all of
the other units and subsidy certificates have to be awarded under a well-prepared simple
system where standard points are given for prior savings, duration of savings, current
living conditions, sex of head of household, income profile, amount of subsidy sought,
unit cost, etc. The beneficiary selection process is widely publicized and the points
awarded to each beneficiary are posted in public areas for scrutiny.  In general,
beneficiaries show confidence in the system and they understand that they can influence
their points standing by taking certain measures (increasing savings, requesting a lower
subsidy, etc.).
17.   The system also has some shortcomings which became apparent during project
implementation. Even with a 75 % explicit subsidy and segmentation of MINVU's
portfolio to show pre-1983, 1983-89 and post-1989 accounts, the average arrears of 90
days or more was greater than 70% for every group at project completion. Although
borrowers were required to prove the inability to pay their debts before they received
forgiveness, MINVU could not verify all cases and the potential for abuse is significant.



- 6 -
Additionally, the process tends to be regressive, since those who had no arrears could
buy out their debts at a lower price and without regard to their income level.
18.   Also, during site visits, supervision missions found that many beneficiaries were
renting their entire unit and living elsewhere. Moreover, supervision missions found
various technical problems (overdesign of streets, low density, foundation erosion, etc.)
which indicate that although the use of private developers may be more efficient than
direct construction by the government, there is still room for improving technical review
of physical works and for more active participation of municipalities and beneficiaries
in deciding on location, design, configuration, etc. of the units. MINVU's initial
insistence on providing assistance only for complete units was also a shortcoming worth
noting since it excluded other options (loans for land titling, urbanized lots with and
without core units, neighborhood upgrading, home improvement loans, etc.) and may
have contributed to financial overcommitment of some beneficiaries who had to buy
fully-built units, which consequently aggravated the arrears problem.
19.   Several supervision missions making spot field checks learned that many
households of the Basic Housing Program pay more for electricity than they are required
to pay for mortgages. When asked about prior housing costs, most of those who were
tenants (before purchasing from MINVU) claimed to have made rental payments
amounting to 3-5 times the mortgage they were paying to MINVU. At the same time,
field observations also confirmed the existence of a core group of about 10-15% of
beneficiaries who did have serious problems meeting their mortgage obligations. This
group is made up mainly of retirees and female heads of household with large families.
20.   The Project objective of introducing programs to upgrade the existing housing
stock was not met. Also, the objective of improving the efficiency and mobilization of
private finance was not attained because the government was unable to attract sufficient
interest among commercial banks and other financial institutions in spite of various
mortgage guarantee schemes. Overall, the conclusion must be drawn that no significant
sectoral improvements were achieved with this Loan.
F.    Lessons Learned from the Implementation Process
21.   The Chilean example confirms several trends observed in other Bank-financed
shelter projects. First, even when the policies governing sector operations are well-
designed, implementing them is often extremely difficult because of the very sensitive
socio-economic and political context within which housing is viewed.  Housing
investments are often different from other investments in the minds of policy-makers,
beneficiaries, and financing institutions. Even under a military government, MINVU was
not willing or able to take the measures necessary to improve its arrears position, nor
was it able to evict those in arrears who were identified as having the resources to pay
their mortgages. Also, even with an acquired equity position approaching 90% (75%



subsidy plus downpayment), many householders were apparently still reluctant to pay
their mortgages because of their expectations of little governmental collection efforts.
22.   Although active government participation in the housing sector may be necessary
to assist low income households. Beneficiaries generally do not seem to make a
distinction between subsidies and loans.
23.   With respect to mobilizing finance for housing for the poor, the Chilean case is
instructive in showing that after several decades of trying various systems, the
government finally decided to use budget any funds complemented by individual savings
incentives for downpayments, rather than turn to commercial banks or specialized
institutions, only to face the usual problems of term and rate mismatching, unpredictable
flow of resources, etc. For the ASP program (which involves relatively higher-income
households than the BHP program), the government was not able to attract sufficient
interest among commercial lenders in spite of various mortgage guarantees; ultimately,
the Banco del Estado, a quasi-government bank, provided most of the complementary
loans under the ASP program.
G.   Project Results
24.   With regard to physical implementation, although home improvement loans did
not take place, by project completion over 230,000 housing units had been constructed,
exceeding appraisal estimates of 177,000 units. The Government's performance in
improving loan collections was not satisfactory. Lower-income housing grant recipients
(the targets of the two Bank loans) used SERVIUs for their small (average size about
$1,000) mortgages. Even the most recent segment of the SERVIU's portfolio (1989-
1994) has arrears amounting to 66% of the portfolio value, partly because of the major
across-the-board debt forgiveness program which was not consistent with the loan
objectives.
H.   Project Sustainability
25.   Sustainability of the project has been negatively affected by the poor collection
performance of MINVU and Banco del Estado and by the lack of participation of private
banks in the subsidy program.
26.   On the other hand, substitution of private developers (instead of using government
force-account construction workers) and a transparent beneficiary selection system were
positive developments that have led to significant efficiency and better targeting of
resources, improved unit designs and lower overall costs for beneficiaries under the
Chilean system.



-8-
I.    Bank Performance
27.   The Bank did provide considerable support to the Government during project
implementation. Six supervision missions, including high-level multidisciplinary teams,
took place. The policy dialogue with the Government also reached a very high level,
involving both the Regional Vice President and the Department Director. The judgement
whether to continue supporting the project, even after the Government's June 1990
decision to provide debt relief to beneficiaries, was a difficult one. Ultimately, it
reflected an assessment of the political economy at the time.
28.  In retrospect, the Bank expectations during project design and appraisal proved
to be unrealistic regarding the likelihood of attaining of the objectives of the project.
These expectations and the specific targets set, did not reflect the experience and lessons
learned under the first housing project.
J.    Borrower Performance
29.   MINVU's greatest difficulty related to recovering overdue mortgage payments.
Following the debt renegotiation process, MINVU and the Government did not
adequately implement the agreed action plan which aimed at improving the recovery of
the loan portfolio; thus, the percentage of arrears continued to increase. Although many
officials were convinced of the logic of carrying out the action plan, they felt that the
political implications would not permit the Government to do so.
30.   Physical implementation of the project has been satisfactory and the loan was fully
disbursed before the Closing Date. Also, project reports were prepared and submitted
to the Bank in a timely manner, and audit reports were submitted generally without
significant delays.
K.   Progect Relationship
31.  In general, the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was always
cordial, in spite of the problems and difficulties encountered as a result of the
renegotiation of MINVU's loan portfolio. Though the Bank always recognized the
technical qualifications and organizational capabilities of the Borrower, it never ceased
to point out the lack of adequate efforts by the Borrower to improve its collection
performance, which was far below the stipulations of the Loan Agreement. More
persistence by the Bank in its supervisory role would not likely have affected the
outcome concerning collection efficiency.



- 9 -
L.   Project Documentation and Data
32.   This PCR relied mainly on the legal reports, the Staff Appraisal Report, aide
memoires, supervision reports, and other Bank documents. Project databases provided
information for the preparation of Part I and Part III. The documentation and data was
generally complete and adequate for project supervision and PCR purposes, with the
exception of some data which would have been included in Part III of the PCR.



- 10 -
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translation)
A.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance
In general, the Bank's major weakness is related to requirements which seem
disproportionate, as a function of what reasonably can be accomplished in accordance
with the specific reality of the borrowing country. For example, the Bank's requirements
related to reduction of arrears are not in keeping with the possibilities of achieving
concrete results in the short- to medium-term. The Bank was not apparently fully aware
that some early estimates and goals, such as for example the improvement of arrears, had
serious limitations. Furthermore, some clauses set questionable requirements; such as:
Section 3.04
It does not seem pertinent that the borrower be precluded to initiate loan
renegotiation processes with its debtors, or providing incentives for payment, and that
actions of this type be subject to a decision by the Bank.
Section 3.05-b
The Bank demands an excessive number of reports during the year (one each
quarter), when only one at the end of each year would suffice.
It does not seem logical that the results of a loan of this type attempt to be
monitored in such detail by the Bank, since the fulfillment of targets is of high priority
to and, in general, should only concern the borrower.
B.    Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
The system for monitoring the projects required providing a great amount of
information which did not correspond to that normally used by MINVU, thus making the
process lengthy and cumbersome and giving low credibiliity to the performances of the
Ministry and the Contralorfa General de la Republica.
With regard to the bidding process, the requirement of calling for international
bids established at the beginning implied increasing costs and extending deadlines,
without ever achieving the participation of foreign enterprises. At the borrower's
proposal, this condition was removed.
During the beginning of the loan, there was some resistance from the enterprises
to participate in the program because of the new conditions they should fulfill



- 11 -
(administrative and technical changes). Finally, after some time this situation was
overcome.
C.   Effectiveness of the RelationshiD between the Bank and the Borrower
Several difficulties emerged in the relationship, especially due to the lack of
credibility of MINVU's performance vis-a-vis the Bank.  This translated into
requirements of the Loan Agreement that could be qualified as inappropriate and
unnecessary, considering the high degree of organizational adequacy of the institutions
of the country and the high professional level of the sectoral authorities.
Related to this, the difficulties were overcome with the field visits to programs
in progress by Bank staff, and by the detailed knowledge of the planning and control
measures set for these programs.
It is appropriate to suggest that the Bank initiate a differentiated classification of
its borrowers, permanently updated, in order to propose also differentiated information
and control requirements, corresponding to the lating of each project in accordance with
the stage of development of its investment programs.






- 12 -
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                  Purpose               Year of        Status
l _________________  ______________________________    A p p ro v al
Loan No. 2482-CH:  To support the Government effort     1984     Closed
Public Sector       to address sector issues and to
Housing Project     generate employment in the
l _________________    housing  sector
Loan No. 2892-CH:  To support the Government's          1987     Closed
Third Structural    structural adjustment program,
Adjustment Loan     including improving mobilization
and allocation of long-term savings
and public efforts in the social
sectors
B.    Project Tunetable
ACTUAL
Identification                                          06/16/87
Preparation                                             08/01/87
Appraisal Mission                                       07/25/88
Loan Negotiations                                       01/03/89
Board Approval                                          03/28/89
Loan Effectiveness                                      06/16/89
Loan Closing                                            06/30/93



- 13 -
C.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year      Appraisal       Actual    Actual as % of
Estimate        Estimate
1989            50.0           30.0           60.0
1990            84.0          92.5           110.1
1991           140.0          158.4          113.1
1992           184.0          193.8          105.3
1993           200.0          200.0          100.0
Date of Final Disbursement 01/07/93.
D.    Project Implementation
Housing Construction (Number of Units)
ACTUAL
l _____________________     1989       1990       1991      1992      Total
Basic Housing Program       17,596     14,819    24,805    22,414      79,634
Unified Subsidy Program     11,035     24,792    22,693    21,864      80,384
Rural Subsidy Program        8,078      6,310     4,932     8,386      27,706
Special Program for                    15,320    15,571    12,628      43,519
Workers
Total              36,709     61,241    68,001    65,292     231,243
PLANNED
1989       1990      1991                 Total
Unified Subsidy Progran   30,000      19,000    19,000               78,000
Basic Housing Program     20,000      16,000    17,000               54,000
Public/Private Partnership  15,000    12,000    12,000               40,000
Rural Subsidy Program      7,000      5,000     5,000                17,000
Total                    72,000     52,000    53,000               177,000



- 14 -
F.    Project Costs and Flnancinf
1. Project Costs (In US$ millions)
Components            Local        Foreign        Total
A. Basic Housing            301.28       111.48        412.76
B. Public/Private Housing   278.96        60.92        339.88
C. Private Subsidized       811.58       112.24        923.82
D. Rural                     76.92        38.79        115.71
Total Project Cost       1,468.74      323.43       1,792.17
2. Project Financing (in US$ millions)
Source             Local       Foreign       Total
Bank                                    200.00       200.00
Fiscal Contribution         136.46      409.35        545.81
MINVU Internal Gen.         818.70                    818.70
Downpayments                 19.82                     19.82
Banking System              207.84                    207.84
Total                  1,182.82      609.35      1,792.17
G.   Project Results
A. Economic Impact       N.A.
B. Financial Impact      N.A.



- 15 -
H.    Status of Covenants
Lean
Agreement                Description              Status       Comments
Section               ___
3.02         Allocate funds to SERVIUs taking into   2    New allocation
account collection efficiency of each        formula being
SERVIU.                                      applied.
3.03         Initiate foreclosure proceedings on     3
mortgage beneficiaries with 90 days or
more of payment arrears.                                           l
3.04         No general renegotiation of loans made  2    Renegotiation ended
under MINVU's Programs.                      January, 1991.
3.05(a)      (i) Overall Loan Program Beneficiaries  3    For 1989-94
for less than 120 days at least:             accounts, 54% of
beneficiaries are in
- 80% in 1989 and 1990 (each quarter);       arrears (66% of
- 85% in 1991 (each quarter);                portfolio value)
- 90% in 1992 forward (each quarter).
(ii) Each SERVIU's Loan Program         3
Beneficiaries in arrears for less than 120
days at least:
- 70% in 1989 and 1990 (each quarter);
- 75% in 1991 (each quarter);
- 80% in 1992 forward (each quarter).
3.05(b)(c)    Quarterly reports on compliance with   3
3.05(a) and on investments made by
MINVU and each SERVIU by April 30,
July 31 and October 31 and annual
reports by January 31.
3.05(d)      When 3.05(b) and (c) reports show       3
covenants of 3.05(a) not met, measures
to meet such covenants.
3.06         Borrower to make available to MINVU     1
at least 90% of MINVU loan repayment
proceeds.



- 16 -
Loan
Agreement               Description              Status       Comments
Section
3.07        MINVU's housing investment program      1
for next year provided to Bank for
review and comment not later than
September 30 of previous year.
3.08        Total housing investment not to exceed  1
l__________ equivalent of US$250,000,000.                                      l
3.09        MINVU's Upgrading Program effective    N/R
not later than November 1, 1989.
3.10        Agreement on maximum housing costs      2    Land cost has risen
(Reference   outside Region Metropolitana de             and is affecting costs.
Schedule 6)  Santiago (para. 2).
Average capital subsidy per beneficiary  N/R
under MlNVU's Unified Subsidy
Program to be reduced by 5% per year,
beginning in 1990 (para. 4).
MINVU's Rural Housing Program to       1
make down payment of at least 5% of
cost of House (para. 5).
Reduce overall and per unit interest rate  1
subsidies for MINVU's Unified
Subsidy, Public/Private Partnership and
Basic Housing Programs (para. 6).
3.11(a)     Full availability of mortgage credits to  1
qualifying beneficiaries under MINVU's
Unified Subsidy and Public/Private
Partnership Programs.
3.11(b)     Best efforts to have BEC and/or other   1    Only with BEC.
banks provide mortgage credits to
beneficiaries of MINVU's Basic
Housing Program.
3.12        Loan indexation method agreed with      I
Bank.



- 17 -
Loan
Agreement                  Description                 Status        Comments
Section                                  l
3.13(a)       For studies under Part B.l(a) of Project,   1
Working Group established by June 30,
1989.
3.13(b)       Working Group to present its report not     1
later than June 30, 1990.
3.13(c)       Prepare programs and plans of action to    N/A
carry out recommendations presented in
report.
3.14          Overall compliance with Section 1, Parts    1
(Reference    A, B and C, and Section II of Schedule
Schedule)     4.
1
Compliance with Section I, Part D
(Review by Bank) of Schedule 4.
4.01(a)       Maintain separate records for Special       1
Account, and for MINVU and SERVIU
Project Accounts.
4.01(b)       Specified audits by April 30 of each        1
year.
4.01(c)       Maintain SOEs for Bank examination          1
and include their audit as provided in
4.02(b).
Key to Compliance:
I = Full Compliance
2 = Partial Compliance
3 = Non-Compliance
N/A or N/R = Not Applicable or Not Reviewed
AM = Aide Memoire



- 18 -
I.    Use of Bank Resources
1. Staff Inpu
Project Cycle               Total Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                61.4
Appraisal through Board Approval                 4.0
Board Approval through Effectiveness             2.9
Supervision:
FY91   27.3
FY92    18.5
FY93    5.1
FY94    2.1
Sub Total Supervision                           53.0
TOTAL                                      121.3
2. Missions
Stage of Project     Date           Mission       Number of
Cycle                          Duration        Persons
Preparation          09/09/87           14             3
Preparation          01/04/88           13             4
Pre-Appraisal        04/17/88           14             5
Appraisal            07/25/88           14             5
Supervision          07/12/89           4              1
Supervision          01/15/90           10             2
Supervision          07/10/90           10             3
Supervision          05/21/91           8              4
Supervision          09/23/91           9              4
l Supervision          09/21/92           9              3



