Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7648-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1989
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Peso (ChS)
Unidad de Famento (UF)
US$1 - CH$249.74
US$$.0040041 - CH$l
US$17.97 - 1 Unidad de Fomento (UF)
*Ncminal commercial rate, January 1, 1989
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP        -  Pension Fund
ASP        - Allocated Subsidy Program
BHP        -  Basic Housing Program
CSP        -  Contractual Savings Program
IDB        -  Inter-american Development Bank
IERR       -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
MINVU      - Ministry of Housing and Urbanism
MSUP       - Municipal Sanitary Unit Program
NGO        -  Non-Governmental Organization
RSP        -  Rural Subsidy Program
SERVIU     -  Regional Housing and Urban Services
USAID      - U.S. Agency for International Development
USP        - Unified Subsidy Program



FOR OFFICALL USE ONLY
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pipe No.
Loan and Project Suary    ..iii -
I.    THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Introduction                           .1
B. General.                                                         2
C. Construction Industry.                                           4
D.  Non-Governmental Housing Organizations.                         5
E. The Housing Finance System.                                      6
F. Policy Framework.                                                9
G. Government Institutions .12
H.  Bank Strategy in the Sector ........................ ...... 14
1. Previous Bank Experience ....                                   14
II.   THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin ....                                             16
B.  Project Objectiv.s .......................                     16
C. Project Description .16
Table 1:  Units in MINVU's 3-year investment program .         17
D.  Housing Policy Modification ............................... 17
E.  Detailed Description of Project Components .18
F. Project Costs .21
Table 2:  Estimated Project Costs .22
G. Financing Plan .22
Table 3: Financing Plan .23
H. Mortgage Portfolio of MINVU .23
I.  Site Planning and Housing Standards .24
J. Project Implementation .25
K. Procurement .25
Table 4:  Procurement Arrangements .26
L. Disbursement .27
M.  Accounting, Auditing and Monitoring .28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Mrs. Adrienne Nassau (Sr. Project Officer), and Messrs. Thakoor Persaud
(Sr. Housing Specialist), James Hicks (Sr. Financial Economist), Luis
Pisani (Sr. Vocational Training Specialist), and Alexander Fleming (Sr.
Financial Economist).   Mne.  Harper  assisted  in  the  production of this
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dltnes. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
III.  PROJECT JUSTIFICAIION
A.   Urban  Poverty  Impact ...................................... 23
Table  5:   Affordability  Levels  of  the  Units ............... 29
B.   Exivironmental  Impact ...................................... 30
C.   Economic  Analysis ......................................... 30
D.  Risks and Safeguards .........................                                   ......... 30
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................ 31
V.    ANNEXES
Annex    1:   Private  Mortgage  Market ............................ 33
Annex    2:   Detailed  Descriptioi  of  Project  Investment ......... 40
Annex    3:   Housing  Subsidies .................................. 46
Annex    4:   Training ........................................... 50
Annex    5:   Detailed  Project  Costs ............................. 54
Annex  6:  Organization of MINVU and the
Regionial  Housing  Services ...................... 60
Annex    7:   Organizational  Charts .............................. 61
Annex    8:   Disbursement  Schedule .............................. 66
Arnex    9:   Economic  Analysis .................................. 67
Annex  10:   Supporting  Tables .................................. 69
Annex  11:   Documents  in  Project  File .......................... 74
VI.   MAP
IBRD No. 20805



- its -
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMM*ARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Chile
Amount:         US$200.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 17  years,  including  5  years  of grace, with
interest at the Bank's stendard variable rate.
Project
Objectives:     The objectives  of  the  project  would  be  to  support the
efforts of the Government to: (a) increase the stock of
housing for low income people; (b) offer a greater variety
of new housing types to meet the needs and preferences of
low income people; (c) introduce programs to upgrade the
existing  housing  stock   for   the   benefit  of  existing
residents; (d) improve cost recovery through *increased
mortgage collections and reduced subsidies; and (e) improve
the efficiency and mobilizationr of private housing finance
resources.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would include all of the investments of
the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) in the housing
sector for 1989-91, and it would introduce a package of
policy measures to reduce subsidies and improve mortgage
collections. A total of 177,000 new houses would be built
and 36,000 existing houses would be improved. Specific
investment components include: (a) the provision of upfront
subsidy certificates to increase the access of lower and
moderate income families as well as rural families to
housing  constructed  by   the   private   sector;  (b)  the
production of basic houses of different sizes and finishes
for allocation to families in the absolute-poverty group;
and (c) home improvement loans for existing houses. In
addition, the project would include technical development
and training for the private housing finance system and for
the Ministry  of  Housing  (MINVU).        The  project would be
implemented by MINVU, who would contract the construction of
basic houses and issue subsidy certificates to applicants
for purchase of private  market  houses.   The loan would be
disbursed gradually over 4 years. To provide incentives for
producing more houses at lower cost, Bank disbursement would
be set at a fixed amount of US$1,400 for each new house
constructed or subsidized regardless of cost.
l                                                                                l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- iv -
Benefits:      The project would  benefit  about  800,000 low-income people
and reinforce: (a) the good working relationships between
MINVU, the private sector and the NGOs; (b) the efficiency
gains of MINVU in providing shelter in partnership with the
private sector; and (c) the transparent and objective system
of   selecting   beneficiaries   and   providing  subsidies.
Furthermore, it would initiate needed nev programs, improve
mortgage collections, reduce subsidies, and improve the
capital market for housing.
Special Risks: The  major  risks   relate   to   mortgage  collections  and
continuity of policies during an election campaign and a
possible future change  in  government.   However, regarding
mortgage collections, comprehensive steps have already been
taken to improve collections with good results. Moreover,
the  conditions  of   the  project,  including  disbursement
conditions and new incentives to the Regional Housing
Services (SERVIUs), are sufficient to ensure that targets
are met. Regarding a future change in basic policies, this
is considered unlikely because present housing policies have
widespread public support; in any event, the Bank would have
the right to review any new policies and programs proposed
by the Government of Chile.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS (in US$ millions, January 1989)
Components:                                                Z        I of
Local    Foreign  Total    Foreign  Base Cst
(In US$ Millions January 1989)
A. Basic Housing            170.0      56.7    226.7      25        21
B. Public/Private Housing  127.4       42.5    169.9     25         16
C. Private Subsidized       472.1    157.3    629.4       25        58
D. Rural                     28.4       9.4     37.8      25         3
E. Housing Improvements      13.3       4.4     L7.7      25         2
F. Technical Development      0.5       2.0      2.5      75         1
BASE COST            811. /   272.3   1084.0    100
Physical Contingencies (0)
Pr:.ce Contingencies (4.82)  37.4      12.4     49.8     25          5
SUBTOTAL CONTINGENCIES    37.4      12.4      49.8     25          5
TOTAL PROJECT COST        849.1    284.7   1133.8      25        105



FINANCING PLAN (in US$ millions, January 1989)
Source                  LOCAL       FOREIGN      TOTAL      X
Bank                                   200.0        200.0      16
Fiscal Contribution         20.6        82.2        102.8        9
MINVU Internal Gen.        160.0       ---           160.0      14
Downpayments               102.0       ---          102.0        9
Banking System             569.0       ---          569.0      50
TOTAL                    851.6       282.2       1133.8    100
Percentage                75          25          100
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY
1989     1990       1991    1992       1993
Annual                    50.0       50.0       50.0    40.0       10.0
Cumulative                50.0      100.0      150.0   190.0    200.0
Rate of Return:       14 percent



I. THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     During  the  past  80   years,  Chilean  governments  have  gained
extensive experience with almost every  form of housing policy and program.
Chile passed its first housing law in 1906. It had self-help programs as
early as 1953.  It had its  first comprehensive housing policy in 1961.  It
was testing sites and services and surveyed lot programs in 1965, and it
experimented with massive programs of heavily subsidized public housing
(1970-73), which proved economically unsustainable. Chile also had a large
savings and loan system (1960-75), and tried the use of wage taxes for
housing and housing investment through the social security system.
1.02     In 1978,  the  Government  devised  an  innovative  housing policy
designed to increase productivity in the sector and to provide greater
benefits to the poor.   The  guiding  principles of this policy are, first,
the Government should intervene only when and where necessary; and second,
subsidies should be transparent and progressive.   The policy has led to an
expanded role for the private sector and the use of substantial up-front
capital subsidies.
1.03     In December  1984,  the  Bank  approved  the  First  Public Sector
Housing Loan (Loan 2482-CH) for US$80 million to support the Government's
medium-term (1985-7) housing program.   The project included: (a) a package
of policy improvements to reduce subsidies and improve targeting, (b) the
construction of about 115,000 houses under two programs, and (c) studies
and technical  assistance.    The  project  has  been  completed  and fully
disbursed (see para  1.56).    The  Third  Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan
2892-CH) also included policy conditions concerning targeting of subsidies.
The Government is in compliance on all conditions in the two loans.
1.04     The results of  recent  Chilean  housing  policy  and of the Bank-
supported projects  have  been  good.    Housing  production  has more than
doubled, unit costs are one third of what they were in 1978 for an
equivalent house, the staff of Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) has
oeen reduced from a peak of 45,000 in 1973 to 3,000, and budgetary
contributions from the Government are about 90Z of their real 'Level of ten
years ago (see para 1.41).   Housing  production on a national level is now
surpassing household growth rates, and some of the benefits can be used to
improve existing housing conditions.    Furthermore, subsidies and publicly
supported investments are strongly  progressive.   Ninety percent of public
investment in the housing sector accrues to relatively poor families in the
lowest six deciles of the income distribution--55Z to the absolutely poor
of the lowest three deciles. Despite serious economic problems and reduced
household incomes, Santiago has few unserviced slums, and infant mortalityl
has declined to 19 per thousand live births in 1985, one of the lowest
rates in Latin America. The provision of housing benefits to the poor has
partially offset the reduction in real wages that resulted from Chile's
economic crisis and adjustment in 1982-84.
1.05     Despite these achievements, there is room to improve collection of
MINVU's mortgage portfolio, to reduce per unit subsidies and costs, to
1/ An indicator related to access to basic sanitation.



match offered solutions better with the needs and preferences of lower
income Chileans, and to improve the functioning of the private mortgage
market. These requirements fore part of the basis for a Second Housing
Sector Project, with increased support from the Bank.
B. General
1.06     Urbanization.  Chile is  a  country with a predominantly temperate
climate and a population of 12 million in 1985. Though most people live in
the temperate central zone, significant population is located in the
extreme climatic conditions of the Antarctic south and the desert north.
1.07     Chile is highly urbanized with a population which was 842 urban in
1985. This is similar to the urbanization levels of the other countries on
the tip of the Southern Cone of Latin Am.3rican (Argentina and Uruguay).
However, it is very high in comparison with most other developing countries
and with most developed  countries.    Chile  experienced its fastest urban
growth in the  fifties  and  sixties.    Since  then  urban growth has been
declining.    Today  rural-urban   migration  is  negligible,  and  natural
population growth is relatively low (birth rate: 2.2Z per year, death rate:
0.62).
'.08     The urban population is  heavily  concentrated in the capital city
of Santiago. With a population of 4.4 million, greater Santiago accounts
for 492 of the urban population and 37? of the population of the entire
country. Seventy percent of the urban population resides in the three
largest citieq of Santiago, Valparaiso/Vina del Mar, and Ccncepcion.
Growth in Santiago has been declining relative to other urban centers since
the beginning of the seventies.   With the redirection of economic policies
under   the   growth   strategy   adopted   in   the   late  mid-seventies,
deconcentration away from Santiago is likely to continue and should become
more pronounced.
1.09     The high level of urbanization in Chile has important implications
for the structure of urban  policy  and  the financing of the urban sector.
From the viewpoint of aggregate investment requirements, the usual burden
of handling rapid urban population growth at low levels of income, which is
typical of the large cities of the developing countries, is much lighter in
Chile. Rather, the problem is to improve the quantity and quality of urban
infrastructure to existing populations and to provide for a manageable
amount of urban growth.
1.10     Housing Demand:   Each  year  about  75,000  new housing units are
required to prevent Chile's housing conditions from worsening. As shown by
Annex 11, page 1, new household formation accounts for 78Z of this need;
another 16? is required for replacement of houses that are demolished or
converted to other uses, and 6Z is needed to take care of annual net
migration.
1.11     In addition to the annual new housing need, there are an estimated
1.2 million families living in circumstances considered to be substandard.
A study carried out during the First Public Sector Housing Project
carefully estimated and classified housing deficiencies. Annex 11, page 1
shows the categories by quintile of the income distrib"ttion of this backlog
of housing need. In terms of sheer numbers, the biggest problem is lack of



connections to  public  utilities  'water,  sewerage,  and/or electricity),
which represents 35Z of the total backlog. This problem ip being addressed
through a project financed by the Inter-american Development Bank (TDP) to
provide basic services and sanitary units with water and sewer connections
in existing neighborhoods. The second and third greatest deficiencies (29
and  231.  respectively)   are   substandard   construction  (e.g.  use  of
nonpermanent materials) and overcrowding (more than three persons per
room). Finally, the involuntary doubling-up of families (more than one
family per dwelling) constitutes 132 of the backlog. Although doubling-up
represents a relatively small percentage of the housing problem, the
households affected by this problem have been applying substantial pressure
on the Government to provide relief.
1.12     Effective demand for  unsubsidized  housing  is substantially less
than raw housing need. A number of factors are responsible. First, the
instability in the economy, the subsequent adjustment, and the decline in
real wages from 1982-87 have made it difficult for households to save the
amount needed either to purchase a house outright, or to provide an
adequate downpayment. They also reduced confidence and delayed decisions
on purchasing. Second, the reform associated with the liberalization of
the financial system (para 1.27) resulted in high real interest rates for
mortgage finance and a generally constrained housing finance market. The
adjustment of mortgage payments anl balances to the price index also serves
to reduce effective demand, as households are wary of assuming repayment
obligations that may increase beyond their ability to pay. Finally, in
Chile, as in most other developing countries, the formal contracting and
banking industry is not very interested in building, marketing, and
financing housing for the poor, partly because a more lucrative and less
risky market is available among the higher income groups.
1.13     Housing  Supply.        Statistics   on   housing  construction  are
incomplete; however, it appears that the number of standard houses
constructed during 1987 covered new housing need. Formal-sector housing
starts reached about 54,000; and it is conservatively estimated that
informal housing construction accounted for 20,000 new units.
1.14     The 1982 census counted 2.3-million  houses  in Chile of which 90Z
were constructed of permanent  materials.    Most  housing  in Chile is one
family and owner-occupied. Apartments account for only 8Z of the housing
stock. Sixty-three percent of houses are owner-occupied, 172 are rented,
and 191 are ceded (occupied by friends or relatives of the owners).
1.15     The 1982 depression hit  the  housing  sector hard (Annex 11, page
2). Housing starts declined in 1982 by about half in number of units and
by two-thirds in square meters  of  construction.   A recovery, starting in
1983, gained momentum in 1984 and 1985 and continues today. In 1985, about
57 thousand units were started, a record number; however, house sizes were
smaller on the average than those built before 1982. Also, the number of
square meters of housing construction was only about 70? of that built
during the peak year of 1981.
1.16     The public sector  is  a  very  important  organizer of demand and
supply, though actual design and construction is performed almost entirely
through the private  sector.    In  the  recession  years  of  1983 and 84,
publicly contracted houses and subsidized private houses accounted for 85-



- 4 -
902 of the building permits in Greater Santiago and 75Z of square meters of
construction. Even though the private sector started to recover in 1986
and 1987, the public sector continued to absorb 70? of housing starts in
1987 and 50Z of total square meters of construction.
1.17     The number of housing solutions  offered through the public sector
has increased substantially in recent years. Assisted by the First Housing
Sector Project, housing sales in the publicly contracted and subsidized
sectors increased from 30,000 in 1984 to 52,000 in 1987. The vast majority
of these sales was oriented toward the absolutely and relatively poor
groups of the population.
1.18     The rental market is relatively  small  in Chile for both cultural
and political  reasons.    Homeownership  has  a  high  cultural value, and
families prefer to purchase  rather  than  rent.    Mobility  Is low.  Most
families consider their home a life-long investment and rarely move once
they acquire it. Government policy also has emphasized homeownership, as
the Government assists families  only  in  acquiring  their  own home.  The
housing rental market was deregulated in 1982, when rent controls were
abolished. The housing study carried out during the First Public Sector
Housing Project found that renters are fairly evenly distributed among
household income groups.   Renters  occupy  141  of the houses inhabited by
families in the lowest decile of the income distribution and 19Z of those
in  the  highest  decile.    Rents  are  relatively  high  in  relation  to
construction costs. Thus, rental housing has a high rate of return (pAra.
3.07).  Rents are  also  high  relative  to  incomes.   For families in the
lowest quintile of the income distribution, average rent in a nonshared
dwelling absorbed 54? of  family  income.    Rents  consumed a much smaller
proportion rf family incomes for those at the upper-income levels (18? for
those in the top quintile).
C. Construction Industry
1.19     Chile has developed an  efficient private~ construction industry in
housing, particularly during the last six years. Most formal construction
companies belong to the Construction Chamber, which has been very effective
in representing the interests of its members and in promoting the industry
generally. In 1987, the construction industry directly accounted for about
11? of  GNP  and  employed  approximately  200,000  people.   When indirect
production and employment effects (e.g., for materials, furnishings,
appliances) are taken into account, the contribution to GNP increases
significantly.
1.20     The cost of constructing an  acceptable-quality  house is low.  In
Santiago, a basic house of 30-35 m2 costs less than 190 UF (US$3,420) and a
house on the private market of 50 square meters costs less than 400 UF
(US$7,200). Both types of houses include individual water, sewer and
electricity connections, fixtures, land, landscaping and on-site and off-
site infrastructure, as well as interest during construction.
1.21     The unique geography  of  Chile  with  its  climatic contrasts and
conditions and high interregional transport costs has created great
diversity in local housing  markets  and costs, reflecting local conditions
of land and materials  supply,  and  transport  costs. For example, housing
costs in the isolated regions of the extreme south are more than double



- 5 -
those of Santiago. In general, there is sufficient land supply around most
urban centers for housing expansion. However, the availability of adequate
infrastructure, particularly sewerage, may be a constraint in certain areas
of the Santiago Hetropolittn Region and in selected cities outside Santiago
(such as Iquique).   HINVU  has  formed  a  special coumittee to anticipate
local problems and work out solutions in advance of housing development.
1.22     There was a significant drop in unit prices between 1981 and 1988.
For example, the 40 m2 units of one major builder in Santiago sold for 850
UF (US$15,300) in 1981. In 1988, 50 m2 units were being sold for 40,0 UF
(US$7,200). The main reasons for this are: (a) the continuity of the
government privately-subsidized housing program, giving builders economies
of scale and confidence of adequate demand; (b) substantial reductions in
the price of construction materials, direct and indirect labor costs, and a
slight  reduction  and  stabilization   of   land  prices;  (c)  a  greater
rationalization of the process of planning, building, and selling housing
developments; and (d) greater speciali7ation of construction firms. Large
firms optimize their efficiency by using standarized materials, components
and measures and some prefabrication, by purchasing materials on a large
scale, and by developing a specialized and trained permanent labor force.
There is evidence, however, that prices are starting to rise with the
recent expansion in construction activity and price increases in building
materials. Some of these increases could be offset if the permit and
inspection procedures were  more  efficient.    Of  an average construction
period of eight months, only fourl months is actual construction on-site.
The rest of the time is used for obtaining building and utility permits and
processing mortgages. MINVU has formed a coordinating committee to study
these problems and recommend solutions.
D. Non-Governmental Housing Organizations
1.23     Non-Governmental organizations (NGOs)  are  active  in the housing
sector. The largest NGOs are Hogar de Cristo, a church-linked, non-profit
foundation, and COVIP, an umbrella organization of housing cooperatives.
In  addition,  there  is  a   commercial   bank  owned  largely  by  church
organizations, municipally-formed corporations to do innovative projects,
and academic institutes and universities to study housing issues and
prepare housing professionals.
1.24     Hogar de Cristo focuses on housing for very low-income people.  It
has been in operation for some 30 years, and is currently manufacturing
about 10,000 prefabricated,  modular  wood  shelters  per  year.   Hogar de
Cristo has published several studies on housing policy and experience in
Chile and distributes a newsletter with world-wide circulation.
1.25     COVIP is an umbrella  organization  for open housing cooperatives.
Its five member cooperatives presently have 30,000 individual members.
COVIP targevs its membership on families that are at or below the median
income.    During  the  last  ten  years,  housing  cooperatives  have been
responsible for developing about 4,000 units per year. Typically a housing
cooperative   advises   potential    households   regarding   homeownership
requiremients, buys land, organizes the communities, and pre-selects and
markets the  units.    The  cooperatives  are  particularly  active  in the
Government-subsidized  private  housing  program   and  are  given  special
incentl't'vk,.  to  encourage  their   participation.     For  example,  housing



- 6 -
cooperatives are allowed to use members' savings to purchase land; the land
then is credited to the savings efforts of its individual members in
competing for subsidy  allocations.    COVIP  is presently negotiating with
USAID to borrow US$5 million from its housing guarantee program for working
capital.
E. The Housing Finance System
1.26     Historic Background.    Chile  traditionally  has  had  a two-tier
system for extending housing loans--one tier through Government agencies
and the other through the private financial system. 2 / Low-income
borrowers have received loans directly from Government agencies. These
loans are now held by the Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU), which
continues to extend and hold mortgage loans for its poorest beneficiaries.
The size of the loans are small, and neither the loans nor the borrowers
are considered creditworthy or viable by the banking system. MINVU now
holds about 300,000 mortgage loans in its portfolio, which exceeds the
number of mortgagors in the financial system.
1.27     Loans through  the  financial  system  have  been  mainly directed
toward middle- and higher-income households.   Until the economic crisis of
1975-76, Chile had a private housing finance system in which mortgage
finance  was  largely   provided   by   specialized  savings-and-loan  type
institutions (S&Ls). S&Ls typically lent at long-term fixed interest rates
while taking deposits at short-term variable rates. The deregulation of
finanJial  markets  in  the  early  1970s  allowed  interest  rates  to  be
determined by market forces. This deregulation took place at a time when
inflation was very high. Hence nominal interest rates--now unbridled--rose
significantly.   The  cost  of  funds  to  the  S&Ls  jumped sharply, while
revenues from their fixed-rate mortgages, made in earlier periods, did not
increase. Therefore, the S&Ls developed severe liquidity and solvency
problems.  The crisis worsened, and in mid-1975 the Governmeat withdrew its
support and  accordingly  the  S&Ls  were  placed  into  receivership.  The
resulting liquidation process was slow and orderly and is still proceeding
today.
1.28     To replace  the  residential  mortgage  lending  activities of the
S&Ls, commercial banks were given the authority to originate, service, and
invest in amortized, fixed-rate, long-term (up to 16-year) mortgages.
However, to reduce their exposure to interest rate and term transformation
risks, the banks were required to finance their mortgage holdings through
the issuance  of  letras  de  credito  hipotecario  (letras) w7ith cash-flow
characteristics similar to those of the banks' mortgage loans. Most letras
are issued  and  readjustable  on  the  basis  of  the  UF.3  /   Financial
institutions may only issue letras backed by existing mortgages held by
them and with matching maturities.    Letras are liabilities of the issuing
commercial bank that are not matched with particular mortgages for payments
2/ The latter financial system is not strictly private, since it includes
a Government-owned commercial bank, the Banco del Estado, and the Central
Bank.
3,/ The UF is a constant currency measure the value of which increases (or
decreases) daily in concert with the consumer price inde:;.



-7-
in case of  bank  insolvency  and  liquidation.    Thus, many letra holders
consider these instruments to  be  equivalent  to debentures of the issuing
banks.
1.29     The main investors in letras are the pension funds (AFPs).  At the
end of 1987, AFPs held about 442 of outstanding letras. The Central Bank
(22Z) and the commercial banks (15t) are also major holders but their
importance relative to the AFPs has declined recently.
1.30     Deficiencies in the system.    Although  the creation of the letra
system preserved the functioning of the private residential mortgage
market, through time it has generated a number of problems that have
restricted  the  growth  and  depth  of  the  market.            ,se  include the
following:
a.  Traditionally,  commercial  banks  are  short-term lenders and
borrowers and are more comfortable with business than household clients.
Residential mortgage lending does not complement their other banking
activities well, and is generally not a high priority activity even if
profitable.    As  a  result,   although  they  are  effectively  the  only
resideLltial mortgage lenders, in January 1988 only two of the twenty-one
banks had more than 20 percent of their assets in residential mortgages,
and mortgages were only 5 percent of total bank assets.4 / Nearly one-half
of the peso amount and two-thirds of the number of all mortgages were held
by only three banks, two of which are reportedly close to their regulatory
ceiling.
b.   Institutional  investors  find  it  difficult  to analyze the
credit quality of a letra.   Even  if the issuing bank's mortgage portfolio
appears high quality today, it may not be so tomorrow as new credits are
extended.    Also,  the  quality  of  the  mortgage  portfolio  may  not be
representative of the quality of the bank's other assets. Institutional
investors would prefer an instrument that is collateralized by a pool of
specific mortgage loans that can be examined for characteristics, such as
credit quality and probable timing of prepayments.
c. Only banks are allowed to originate and/or service mortgages.
Other institutional investors have been restricted to letras. Because the
number of commercial banks is relatively small, and many do not wish to
make mortgage loans, competition for mortgage origination and servicing is
not intense. Many observers consider the spreads between the interest rate
charged to mortgagors and the interest rate paid on the corresponding
letras as overly wide and reflective of inadequate competition. Until
recently, spreads were nearly 42 but have since declined to 3Z.5 t
4j By comparison, the mortgage industry is huge in the US. In addition to
a  large  savings-and-loan   induistry,   mortgage  banking  industry,  and
secondary mortgage  market,  19?  of  US  commercial  bank  assets  are in
mortgages, 9? for residences. In 1986, about 702 of mortgages originated
were funded through the secondary mortgage market.
5/ Spreads in the US are about 75 to 120 basis points.



- 8 -
d. The administration of the letra is cumbersome, thus raising
its cost and reducing  its  convenience.    It involves coupon clipping and
physical delivery of letras and coupons to various entities.
e. Mortgage credit, when available, is usually extended at a real
interest rate of 8-102 with automatic adjustments of nayments and mortgage
balances to the consumer price index. This is considered very expensive by
people in Ch.le and has discouraged many people from seeking housing loans
(para 1.12).
1.31     Mortgage Restructurings.    In  addition  to  these structural and
institutional problems, the mortgage market was affected by the severe
economic contraction in 1982. The depression resulted in high unemployment
and real wage declines reaching 152 on average by April 1988. Real wages
have since started increasing.   Because  mortgage loans are denominated in
UF, a currency measure with daily adjustments to the consumer price index,
many borrowers did not have sufficient income to make timely payments. The
value of the underlying  collateral  also  declined.    A sharp increase in
defaults would have led to bank losses and possible insolvency. Rather
than permit this to happen, the Government, through the Central Bank, chose
to limit bank losses both by providing emergency loans directly to the
banks and by loaning funds to the mortgagors to permit them to pay part of
their monthly payments.
1.32     Since 1983 there have  been  four  reprogrammings of bank mortgage
loans with Central Bank assistance and one program of direct grants through
the Ministry of  Finance.    All  reprogrammings  have been directed toward
mortgage holders whose debt was contracted before the sharp economic
contraction. The reprogrammings in 1983 and '.984 essentially capitalized
part of the loan payments and extended their maturities. The 1985 program
extended direct payments to mortgage borrowers through the fiscal system.
In 1986, when both nominal and real interest rates declined sharply, the
Central Bank assisted the banks to refinance their mortgages at lower
interest rates by extending bridge financing to permit prepayment of
existing mortgages and the issuance of new, unsubsidized, lower-rate
mortgages through the capital market.    The 1988 reprogramming, which will
continue until December 31, 1988, used a novel approach in which the
Central Bank made residential mortgages eligible for participation in swaps 6
to retire external debt as part of the Government's overall external debt
conversion program.   The  nominal  "profits'  from the transaction (around
27Z) are used to reduce the outstanding balances of the participating
mortgage loans. The maximum mortgage amount eligible for the program is
US$6,000 per mortgage borrower; thus the program provides proportionately
greater benefits to small-mortgage, low-income borrowers.
1.33     New Initiatives.  Despite  the  difficulties that mortgage lending
his encountered in the past, both the AFPs and the insurance companies
6/ Under a swap, the mortgagor or his agent uses foreign exchange obtained
on the parallel market to purchase the registered foreign debt of Chile
from a foreign creditor. Such debt is now selling at a discount of 402 of
face value. The registered debt is given to the Central Bank, which
retires the full debt amount at a cost of 60Z of its accrued value. The
Central Bank then uses part of the 402 'profit' to write-down the value of
the existing mortgage of the internal debtor.



appear interested in increasing their investments in mortgages and capable
of becoming substantial and viable players in the market. Both are growing
rapidly and searching for additional long-term investments to complement
their long  term  liabilities.    For  example,  total  assets  of AFPs are
expected to increase from 141 of GDP at the end of 1987 to 40-502 of GDP by
the turn of the century. There is a strong case for allowing the private
mortgage market to be free of the straight-jacket of one basic instrument
(the letra) originated by one type of institution (the commercial bank).
1.34     One recent initiative to widen the market has been for the Chilean
Government to permit the development of an endorsable mortgage. A recent
law and regulations open the possibility of an entity originating mortgages
and passing them on to another investor in a secondary mortgage market.
The credit risk would be carried by the final investor. This is expected
to broaden the base of mortgage originators, because institutions that are
more risk adverse, less highly capitalized, or indebted would not have to
carry the asset (the mortgage loan itself) or the corresponding liability
(the letra) on its books.   It  could therefore lead to greater competition
that could reduce the intermediaries' spread.   The measure would also meet
the needs and preferences of institutional investors who would like to
increase their participation in the mortgage market without investing in
additional commercial bank liabilities.
1.35     In addition, a  proposed  Financial  Markets Project (currently at
the  preappraisal  stage)  is  expected  to  consider  including  a  policy
component to: (a) permit the formation of closed-end mutual funds,
including a fund to specialize in real estate and mortgage purchases; (b)
permit AFP's to invest in shares of initially closed companies partially
devoted to mortgage holdings; and (c) enact a legal framework for
establishing a  central  depository  system.    The  expansion  of eligible
investments is partially geared toward permitting the AFPs to increase
their investments in mortgage instruments while avoiding direct links
between savers in particular AFPs and home buyers.7 / The depository system
would reduce the risks and costs inherent in physical delivery of coupons
and  certificates  for  the  letras,   as  well  as  other  capital  market
instruments. It could also lead to a new form of paperless, computerized
letra.
F.  Policy Framework
1.36     Until 1978, Chile's  housing  policies, programs, and institutions
were similar to those in other Latin American and developing countries.
Government housing corporations and other public institutions designed,
constructed, and allocated completed houses as well as sites and services.
Mortgage finance was provided through savings and loan associations and the
Government on subsidized terms.   In  1978,  an evaluation of these efforts
revealed that: (a) the houses were expensive and inefficiently produced;
(b) there were substantial hidden subsidies through incomplete cost
accounting and low interest rates; and (c) subsidies were regressive, i.e.
the more expensive the house (and the richer the beneficiary), the larger
the subsidy.
7/  Such links created  problems  before  the pension reforms, because some
savers preferred to withdraw (effectively) their compulsory contributions
by incurring mortgage loans which they did not repay.



- 10 -
1.37     The new housing  policy  adopted  in  1978  tried to address these
deficiencies through the  following  principles:    (a) intervention by the
Government should be the minimum necessary to assist the population to have
access to adequate housing; thus the private sector should contribute the
major role in increasing supply and improving the stock; (b) Government
efforts should be progressive and emphasize assistance for the poor and
those living in marginal communities; (c) subsidies should be direct,
explicit and provided through the Government budget; (d) the population
should be able to exercise freedom of choice in selecting their home; (e)
the  selection  of   beneficiaries   for   Government  programs  should  be
transparent and impersonal; (f) both savings for home-ownership and home-
ownership itself should be encouraged; (g) the long-term viability of a
market-based housing finance system should be assured.
1.38     These policy changes were  consistent  with overall changes in the
management of the macroeconomy in which the Government sought to reduce its
budgetary outlays in all the social sectors by increasing efficiency. A
similar model for accomplishing this was used in the education, health,
social  security,  and  housing  sectors.    The  model  included:  (a) the
decentralization or privatization of Government agencies; and (b) the
issuance of subsidies directly to consumers, who use the subsidies to
purchase services which they select. The Bank is planning to mount a study
of all the social sectors during FY 1989-90 that will describe this policy
framework and evaluate  its  accomplishments  and  costs.    In addition to
social sector reform, the Government freed financial-sector interest rates,
liberalized the banking sector, and reformed the social security system.
These reforms were  partially  designed  to  encourage  orivate savings and
lending, thus ameliorating Governmental budget constri   s.
1.39     Government  Housing  Programs.        Presently,  the  public  sector
implements its policies through three major programs: (a) the Unified
Subsidy Program (USP); (b) the Basic Housing Program (BHP); and (c) the
Rural Subsidy Program (RSP). In addition, there is a related program (the
Municipal  Sanitary  Unit   Program),   supported   by   a  loan  from  the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB), to provide basic services and
sanitary cores in existing poor  neighborhoods.   All of the programs share
certain  common  principles:    they  include  up-front  capital  subsidies
provided through  the  Government  budget;  they facilitate home-ownership;
they rank potential beneficiaries through a transparent competition in
which household savings effort is an important part; they make optimal use
of the private sector and the NGOs; they allow the beneficiaries to select
their own house and location; and they do not distort the private housing
finance system  of  Chile.    Government  programs  are  progressive.   The
programs that provide ior the poorest receive the most funds, and the units
included in these programs receive the highest percentage of subsidy.
1.40     New construction programs are  implemented  by MINVU with the help
of the private sector.   The  USP distributes subsidy certificates of about
US$1,440-2,700 to lower- and middle-income families. Certificates can be
used to cover a portion of the purchase price of houses located by the
beneficiaries on the private housing market.   About 70Z of the houses cost
less than US$7,200.   The  BHP  contracts  with private contractors for the
design and construction of small completed houses for about US$3,200 for
allocation to very  low  income  people.    The  BHP  presently features an



- 11 -
upfront subsidy of 75Z of the cost of the house. A relatively recent and
small program, the RSP is directed to poor rural populations and provides a
subsidy of up to 752 of the value of the house. In addition, a special
program was initiated as part of the International Year of the Homeless in
1987. This program, which is a variation of the BHP, produced houses
costing  around  US$4,000  for  allocation   to  organized  groups  of  the
population. As an experiment, the upfront subsidy was reduced to about
US$1,000.
1.41     Evaluation of Policies and Programs.  In general, the Government's
housing policies are well conceived, and the programs are implemented
correctly and  efficiently.    MINVU  does  a  continuous  appraisal of the
appropriate role of the private and the public sector in order to make the
production of housing as efficient as possible, while addressing the needs
of the poorest groups.   Since 1978, publicly stimulated housing production
has increased from 19,000 units per year to 52,000 (1987), the unit cost
for similar structures has been reduced from US$7,000 to less than
US$3,000, and the ratio of recurrent costs of MINVU to units produced has
decreased from US$1,000 to US$270. Publicly supported housing expenditures
are well-targeted. Though Government policy is to provide some assistance
for all groups, 552 of investment accrues to the absolute poverty group,
and another 302 to the relatively poor.    A basic house with a 752 subsidy
can be afforded by families below the fifth percentile of the urban income
distribution.
1.42     The  weighted  average   of   MINVU's  gross  subsidies  presently
constitutes about 38Z of the total cost of the housing which it subsidizes,
and cost MINVU about US$107 million in 1988.8 / Net upfront subsidies
(minus returns from direct and indirect taxes on construction) are about
20Z and when the value of long term cost recovery at an 8-102 real interest
rate is considered, subsidies are  negative.   Subsidies of housing clearly
meet the criteria described in Bank Treatment of Subsidies, SecM 87-49 of
January 15, 1987.   They  are  transparent, well-targeted, sustainable, and
administratively simple.   Public  investments  in  housing (which includes
subsidies and other costs) are about 32 of the Government budget, and 62 of
Government social expenditures. This is less than in the past, and does
not represent a drain on public resources.
1.43     However, there are several  areas  in  which policies and programs
could be improved. Most of these areas were analyzed in an extensive study
of housing policies which was carried out by the Catholic University of
Chile under the First Housing Sector Project (Loan 2482-CH). In some
cases, actual practice deviates from the stated policy. These are: a) the
existence of substantial hidden subsidies through the failure of MINVU to
enforce mortgage collections (para 1.48); b) higher upfront subsidies in
the USP than necessary to make the houses affordable to the target group;
c) the use of indirect interest rate subsidies in the USP (para 2.08); and
d) inefficient administration and excessive subsidies in the rural subsidy
program.  Also, there are  minor  implicit  subsidies in MINVU's failure to
charge interest during construction and administration in the price of its
basic houses;
8/   Based  on  the  weighted  average  subsidy  per  house,  subsidies are
presently about 522 per house.



- 12 -
1.44     Up until now MINVU's programs  have  been oriented only toward new
construction.   The  study  on  housing  policy  showed  that about 400,000
families were living in housing which could be upgraded to improve its
quality and size. Rehabilitation of such housing offers an opportunity to
improve housing conditions of the low income group at a cost substantially
less than new construction. It would also help restore the vitality of and
preserve other public and private investments in existing neighborhoods
closer to the center of the  cities.    In addition, there is a significant
gap between the BHP (priced at 175-190 UF) and the USP where experience
shows  that  houses  start  at  300-350   UF.    The  experiment  with  the
Public/Private Partnership program demonstrated that there is a large unmet
demand for housing in the 200-350 UP price range. An increase in housing
soldtions in this range could offer opportunities for subsidy reduction,
while better meeting the specific needs and preferences of the lower income
group.
G. Government Institutions
1.45     Structure.  Responsibility for  housing sector policies and public
sector shelter programs lies with MINVU (Annexes 5 and 7). Apart from
Santiago, representatives of the Ministry (the SEREMIs) are located
throughout each of the twelve regions of the country. They coordinate
their activities with the Regional Housing and Urban Services (SERVIUs).
The SERVIUs have the main task of implementing MINVU's program throughout
the  country.    The  SERVIUs   work   in  close  coordination  with  local
municipalities which must approve a site development before construction
and accept it for provision of municipal services after construction. The
municipalities are also responsible for verifying the socio-economic status
of bene"iciaries who apply for the basic housing program. In general, the
municipalities complement the SERVIUs' need for social workers, and the
SERVIUs provide the municipalities with technical staff when the need
arises.
1.46     Over the past two decades,  there have been substantial changes in
the nature and role of public sector shelter agencies. The number of such
agencies and their staff mushroomed during the early 1970s. Staff (both
officials and workers) reached a peak of 45,000 during this period. When
the current administration came into office, it consolidated all the
housing agencies into SERVIUs, and the staff was gradually reduced to a
total of approximately 3,000 in both the SERVIUs and MINVU combined.
Despite this reduction, both the quality and the quantity of output
improved, because the Government shifted most of the design, construction,
marketing and financing responsibilities to the private sector, and it kept
qualified and adequately paid staff to monitor and manage its programs.
1.47     Sector  training  responsibility  lies  with  a  unit  in  MINVU's
Personnel Department and designated training coordinators in each of the
SEREMIs and SERVIUs. During the last three years training courses ranging
from 20 to 80 hours were organized for about 300 persons using MINVU's own
instructors and external sources. Despite this effort training has several
deficiencies, including: a) a weak impact (only 20Z of sector personnel
have been given a training opportunity during the past three years); b) a
lack of relevancy of offered courses to sector technical needs; c) a lack
of appropriate courses for managers and professionals; and d) insufficient
coordination with local universities.



- 13 -
1.48     MINVU Mortgage Portfolio.   MINVU  has  proven  to be an effective
implementing agency in many respects. In the area of portfolio management,
however, the status had been unsatisfactory. The 1981-1982 recession had a
negative impact upon the repayment capacity of beneficiaries and it reduced
the value of their homes.   Existing HINVU debtors are possibly the poorest
people  in  Chile.    Less  needy  MINVU  beneficiaries  have  either taken
advantage of pre-payment incentives or are carried on the mortgage
portfolios of commercial  banks.    However,  apart  from genuine repayment
difficulties, the Government traditionally has not been very vigilant in
collecting mortgage payments from  beneficiaries.   Furthermore, decades of
inadequate efforts to collect, combined with many restructurings of
payments and principal balances (para 1.50), have created a group of
debtors who are not attuned to taking their obligations seriously. Poor
mortgage collection undermines the essence of the upfront, transparent
subsidy. It also represents a high opportunity cost in terms of the total
funds available to the sector, and it is socially unjust in view of the
many poor that have not yet attained access to the BHP.
1.49     It is estimated that  there  are  about  300,000 mortgage loans in
MINVU's portfolio  with  a  book  value  of  around  US$600  million.   The
portfolio was built over many years, and a significant part is composed of
loans by previous administrations for completed houses and for partially
serviced lots. As of March 1988, about forty percent of the portfolio was
denominated in Cuentas de Ahorro, an older indexation method in which
mortgage payments were only partially adjusted to price inflation. Most of
the remaining loans were denominated in UF (para. 1.28). About 75Z of the
mortgagors were over three months behind in their payments. During 1986-7,
about 40% of MINVU's mortgagors made their payments in an average month,
paying,  in  the  aggregate,  about   40Z   of  the  monthly  amounts  due.
Collections appeared to be poor on the entire portfolio, the new loans as
well as the old ones.
1.50     Like the  mortgage  portfolio  of  the  financial  system, MINVU's
portfolio has been affected by yearly reprogrammings to reduce repayment
obligations of existing debtors, whose real wages declined due to the
economic c.risis and subsecuent depression, while their payment obligations
increased *'ith inflation. In addition, MINVU encouraged debtors to prepay
debts through an special program in force during 1986.
1.51     MINVU recognized the seriousness  of  its collection problems, and
in March  1988,  it  started  to  take  corrective  actions.   First, MINVU
announced a program of mortgage restructuring in its existing portfolio to
match some of the  write-downs  given  through  the private housing finance
system swaps (para 1.32). The restructuring program ended on December 31,
1988. The MINVU mortgage restructuring was formulated as an incentive
system  to  encourage  prompt  payment.    The  incentives  included  a 25Z
reduction in the amount of each payment if the payment is made on time, and
a cumulative 1OZ per year reduction in the principal balance if all the
payments for the previous year were made on time. Special contracts were
made with mortgagors in substantial arrears, and smaller incentive payments
are being given for prompt payment on those contracts during the first
three years of the  contract  term.    A  restructuring provision also gave
existing mortgagors the option to denominate their mortgages in a currency
measure indexed to wages and  salaries.    The  use of the wage index would



- 14 -
match better payment ability with payment obligations. Furthermore, in the
near term wages are expected to rise faster than prices. However, there is
a risk that cost recovery could erode during periods of rapid inflation
combined with falling real wages, thus raising implicit subsidies.
1.52     Concurrently with the restructuring,  MINVU took concrete measures
to improve  the  quality  of  management  of  its  portfolio.   Notably, it
contracted a private firm to computerize accounts, and to administer MINVU
billings, collections and  follow-up.    The  firm  is  responsible for the
entire portfolio of the SERVIUs that did not have a computerized management
system (ie. almost all the regions outside of the major cities), and for
the accounts that are more than three months in arrears in those SERVIUs
that  already  have  computerized   accounts.         This  represents  private
management for about 83Z of the approximately 300 thousand accounts of the
existing portfolio.
1.53     Furthermore,  MINVU:  a)  is  arranging  for  payment  collections
through the extensive branch system of the Banco de Estado; (b) plans to
use special simplified foreclosure procedures to enforce collections; and
c) plans to expand the role of commercial mortgage institutions under the
proposed loan, and limit the Government's direct role as a mortgage
provider to those at the very bottom of the income distribution.
1.54     The results of these efforts  are  promising.  Cash collections in
real terms during the last six months of 1988 improved by 63Z over the six
month average of 1987, despite the substantial rebates offered through the
mortgage restructuring incentive program  (para  1.51).  Good progress also
has been made in computerizing the portfolio.   As of March 31, 1989, about
93Z of the portfolio  had  been  computerized.   Both of these achievements
(cash collections and percentage computerized) exceeded by a substantial
margin the estimates made by MINVU and Bank missions for progress to date.
H. Bank Strategy in the Sector
1.55    The Bank  has  been  closely  involved with the policies of Chile's
housing sector through the First Public Sector Housing Loan (Loan 2482-CH)
and through the Third Structural  Adjustment  Loan (Loan 2892-CH).  Both of
those loans supported  policy  improvements  to  reduce  subsidy levels and
sharpen targeting toward the lowest  income groups.  The proposed operation
would permit the Bank to continue this dialogue during a period of possible
electoral change to a new Government.   It would sustain Chile's efforts to
provide a safety net  of  basic  services  to  the poor; it would reinforce
cost-effective,  transparent,  and   replicable  programs  which  emphasize
private initiative and increased household savings; and it w;ould support
programs which increase and improve the stock of affordable housing for low
income people.   In  addition,  the  sector's  annual public investments of
US$155 million provide the Bank with an opportunity for meaningful resource
transfers at a time when net disbursements to the country will decline
sharply.
I. Previous Bank Experience
1.56     The First Public Sector  Housing  Loan (Loan 2482-CH) was approved
on December 20, 1984. Its objectives were: (a) to support the G3vernment's
effort to address sector issues; and (b) to generate employment in housing
construction and  help  reactivate  the  economy.    The  project supported



- 15 -
MINVU's ongoing housing programs and consisted of: (i) a package of policy
improvements; (ii) support for the provision of houses under the BHP and
the Allocated Subsidy Program 9 /; and (iii) studies on the private housing
finance system, housing policy alternatives, and the mortgage portfolio of
MINVU. Policy improvements which were foreseen included: (a) a reduction
in the unit cost and maximum subsidy in the basic housing component to 190
UF and 752 respectively; (b) an initial reduction of 10? in the subsidy
levels for the ASP, and further subsidy reductions of at least 10 UF per
year; (c) the limitation of the contractual savings program (CSP) (para
2.08) to 24,000 awards and its elimination after 1986; (d) a limitation of
MINVU's overall investment program in housing to no more than US$200
million per year; and (e) the elimination of subsidies in MINVU's BHP and
ASP by December 31, 1988, subject to the results of policy studies and an
orderly transition period.
1.57     The physical implementation  of  the  project  was  good.  Between
January 1, 1985 and June 30, 1988, about 80,000 houses on the BHP were
constructed and subsidy certificates distributed for 58,000 houses under
the ASP (of which 43,000  were  paid).   This exceeded the targets foreseen
during the appraisal of the  project.    All  of the studies were finished,
albeit with some delays with regard to the housing alternatives study. The
conclusions of the housing alternatives study have been used in designing
the proposed project. The entire loan was fully disbursed by the closing
date of December 31, 1988.
1.58     The implementation of the policy  reforms were more jelicate.  The
subsidies in the BHP and ASP were reduced in line with expectations; and
MINVU's investments in housing were far below the expressed limit. The CSP
never reached its maximum size; however, the Government was reluctant to
discontinue the program after 1986, because it recognized that cost
effective programs were needed to assist middle income families, who have
difficulty in meeting their housing needs due to the tightness and high
cost of  mortgage  credit.    A  dialogue  with  the  Bank  on this subject
eventually resulted in several understandings in the Third SAL which
addressed this issue satisfactorily (para 1.59). Regarding the elimination
of all subsidies (point e above), Bank guidelines now recognize that well-
targeted housing subsidies are appropriate in some countries to provide
affordable housing for the poor, and it is neither practical nor desirable
to eliminate them.   This  view  was  confirmed by the Housing Alternatives
Study, which actually proposed higher subsidy levels than those eventually
adopted by the Chileans.    The  appropriate  level of subsidies in MINVU's
housing program is a major focus of the Second Housing Sector Project.
1.59     The discussions in preparing  the  SAL also continued the dialogue
regarding the targeting and progressivity of housing subsidies, and
specific conditions were formulated to limit subsidies for houses costing
more than 400 UF and to reduce per unit interest rate subsidies. During
negotiations for the Third Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2892-CH) dated
October 30, 1987, the Bank expressed satisfaction with the thrust and
execution of the MINVU housing programs and its accomplishments. In
addition, it was noted 'that the Government is committed to serious action
to improve the recovery of its portfolio and will begin a new program to
9/ The predecessor to the Unified Subsidy Program (para 1.39).



- 16 -
achieving this goal by April 30,  1988.'   The preappraisal mission for the
Second Housing Project and the supervision mission for the Third SAL
determined that the Government is in compliance with these commitments.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
2.01     The First Housing Sector Loan  was  intended  to be the first in a
series of operations in  the  housing  sector.    Formal discussions on the
potential for a second operation were started in May/June 1987. Subsequent
preparation missions and a preappraisal mission in May 1988 advanced the
project. Appraisal was carried out in August 1988.
2.02     The policies and programs  proposed  in  the project are partially
based on the results of an extensive study carried out under the First
Project by the Catholic University of Chile (para 1.58). The study used
the results of a sample survey of over 30,000 households and a review of
all the previous housing studies in Chile to come to its conclusions. In
addition to the housing study, a financial audit of the SERVIUs was
completed before negotiaticns.
B. Project Objectives
2.03     The objectives of the priject  are  to  support the efforts of the
Government to: (a) increase the stock of housing for low income people; (b)
offer a greater variety of new housing types to meet the needs and
preferences of low income people; (c) introduce programs to upgrade the
existing housing stock for the benefit of existing residents; (d) improve
cost recovery by increasing mortgage collections and reducing upfront
subsidy levels; and (e) improve the efficiency and mobilization of private
housing finance resources.
C. Project Description
2.C4     The project comprises all  of  MINVU's  investments in the housing
sector for three years.    In  addition,  there  is a technical development
component to be carried out by MINVU and by the Superintendent of Banks.
2.05     At negotiations, the Government affirmed that it  will continue to
subscribe to the basic policies given in Paragraph 1.37, and to execute
programs which implement these policies.(para. 4.01).
2.06     A summary of the number of  units in MINVU's three year investment
program is shown below.  Details can be found in Annex 5.  At negotiations,
the Government informed the Bank that the new construction program for 1989
had increased over estimates at appraisal due to unforeseen increases in
fiscal revenues.  The estimated  program  for  1990 and 1991 is essentially
the same as appraisal estimates.   The  number  of solutions in each of the
components and subcomponents may be modified during project execution in
line  with  demand  and  implementation   experience.         In  addition,  the
Government will have some flexibility to fine tune the rules affecting
components and subcomponents based on reviews of its experience. At
negotiations, the Government agreed that before October of each year of



- 17 -
project implementation, it would provide information to the Bank for its
approval on the number of solutions MINVU intends to implement under each
of its lines of action and of any significant changes which it intends to
make in the operating  rules  for  each  line  of  action (para. 4.01).  To
ensure that Government expenditures  do  not increase to uneconomic levels,
the Government agreed  that  Central  Government  allocations  to MINVU for
housing investments, including proceeds of the Bank loan, would not exceed
US$250  million  equivalent  per   year   during   the  period  of  project
implementation (para. 4.01).   This  agreement  is  an extension oi sinmilar
covenants in the First Hou;ing and the Third Structural Adjustment Loans.
Table 1: NUMBER OF UNITS
(In thousands)
YEAR 1   YEAR 2    YEAR 3    TOTAL
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a.  Unified Subsidy Program          30        19         19        78
b.  Basic Housing Progrsin           20        16         17        54
c.  Public/Private Partnership    15           12         12        40
d.  Rural Subsidy Program             7         5          5        17
SUBTOTAL/ NEW HOUSES                 72        52         53       177
HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
a.  Regularization of titles          8         9         10        25
b.  Rehabilitation & extension        3         4          4        11
SUBTOTAL/IMPROVEMENTS                11        13         14        36
T O T A L                            83        64         66       213
D. Housing Policy Modifications
2.07     Several modifications in  housing  policies  would be reflected in
the  project.     First,  the  project  would  contain  new  components  and
subcomponents to fill the  gaps  in  MINVU's  programs  (para 1.44).  These
include: (a) housing improvement loans and (b) the inclusion in the BHP of
houses costing around US$3500-5400 with lower up-front subsidies than for
the smallest  basic  nua..    Second,  MINVU  would  reduce and eventually
eliminate indirect, implicit subsidies and lower its average up-front
subsidy  levels.       This   would   be   accomplished   by:  (a)  including
administration costs and interest during construction in the prices for the
BHP; (b) establishing minimum down-payment requirements for the rural
housing program; (c) establishing lower average up-front subsidies for the
BHF; and (d) lowering yearly  up-front  subsidy levels for the USP starting
in the second year of the project. Subsidy awards per house during the
second yeer of the project would be 151 lower on the average than those
prevailing during 1988. Sudden changes in subsidy levels, particularly for
the USP are not advocated because this would create disruption and
instability in the construction industry ultimately leading to higher
prices for their products.   During  negotiations, the Government. agrsed to
the action program on subsidies found in Annex 3 (para. 4.01).



- 18 -
E. Detailed Description of Proiect Components
2.08     Housing Construction -  Unified  Subsidy  Program  (USP).  The USP
began in 1988, and is the successor to two former housing subsidy -rogLams,
the allocated subsidy program (ASP) and the contractual savings program
(CSP). The combining of programs was encouraged by the Third SAL (Loan
2892-CH) which sought to improve the targeting of subsidies. The USP
distributes subsidy certificates of 80-150 UF (US$1,440-2,700) to lower and
middle income families. Beneficiaries are given 20 months to locate their
own houses on the open market, and tse the certificate to cover a portion
of the purchase price.   Beneficiaries  are also allowed to construct their
own houses under the program either individually or through a housing
cooperative. About 30Z of the certificates redeemed in the program are
used by housing cooperatives and NGOs.   The subsidies are progressive.  It
was agreed in the Third SAL that at least 902 of subsidy amounts be used
for houses which cost under 400 UF (US$7,200). The program covers three
levels and costs of houses; and the more expensive the house, the less the
subsidy (in both amount and percentage) which is available to it. The
certificate is redeemed at MINVU for cash by the contractor upon delivery
and registration of the house to the subsidy recipient. The balance of the
price of the  house  is  covered  by  the  savings  of  the purchaser and a
mortgage loan provided on commercial terms through the private housing
finance system (para 1.26). Such terms include a 8-10Z real interest rate,
a 12- to 20-year term, and adjustment according to the price index.10 /
The USP also guarantees an interest rate and spread which sometimes results
in the sale of the corresponding letra on the capital market at a discount.
The Government agreed in the Third SAL and in negotiations for this project
to reduce this indirect subsidy gradually to an amount sufficient to cover
only short  term  commitment  iJsk  (para  4.01  and  subsidy action plan).
Potential beneficiaries compete for the subsidies on the basis of the
amount of subsidy requested (higher weights are given for lower subsidies),
the amount and regularity of their prior savings, and family size. There
i! a basic requirement that applicants not own a home, and applicants for
the 400 UF tranche must have family incomes under 15 UF per month (US$270).
2.09     New Housing Construction - Basic  Housing Program.  Though the USP
encourages the construction of less expensive houses for poor people,
expedierce has shown that the private sector is unwilling to construct on
its own houses which are priced less than 300-350 UF (US$5,400-6,300).
Therefore, MINVU has to contract directly such construction. It does this
through the the BHP. Under the BHP, contractors locate sites, purchase the
land, and complete designs and construction under contract to the SERVIUs.
The price of the house includes land, infrastructure (water mains, public
sewerage system, power lines and paves roads and streets), individual house
connections for utilities, and fixtures.    In addition, under the project,
the  GovernLent  agreed   that   SERVlUs   will   include  interest  during
construction and SERVIU administration in the price of houses offered under
the BHP (para 4.01).      The  houses  are  28-35  m2  in size and contain a
combination living/dining room/kitchen, two small bedrooms and a bathroom.
Most houses are one or two story dwellings on individual lots, though some
four story walk-up apartments are also built and sold on a condominium
10/ Loans are denominated in UF.



- 19 -
basis.  Beneficiaries  are  s lected  through  a transparert and impersonal
process in which weights are given for need, family size, the amount of
family savings and the length of time in which systematic savings have been
deposited. The greatest amount of weight is given for need. Need is
determined through a rating on the 'Indice CAS', a national system of
socioeconomic stratification which  measures  poverty.   A municipal social
worker visits the home of the applicant to fill out a rating form, which is
subsequently processed and weighted by computer. The rating form measures
about 30 factors such as the condition of the existing dwelling, the income
of the applicant, the degree of overcrowding, and the absence of visible
signs of wealth, such as indoor plumbing and a television set. The
greatest amount of weight is given for existing liv'ng conditions. Up to
now, beneficiaries have been expected to pay only 25Z of the unit's cost
through a small down-payment and a loan provided by MINVU at an 81 real
rate of interest. At negotiations, the Government agreed to use the UF or
other adjustment system acceptable to the Bank for indexing new MINVU loans
during the project (para 4.01).   MINVU would no longer offer an adjustment
system  based  on  the   wage   index,   which   it  adopted  for  mortgage
restructurings  in  1988.    The  remaining  752  of  unit  cost  has  been
subsidized.  However, under the  project,  the  BHP would offer up to three
levels of size and finish of houses with the highest level of up front
subsidy attached to the cheapest and most basic solution. All basic houses
would cost less than 300 UF (US$5,400). MINVU mortgages would continue to
be offered on the lowest level basic house, however, private mortgage
finance for complementary loans would be used on levels 2 and 3. The
recommendation that the number of levels of basic houses be increased arose
out of the housing policy study carried out during the First Project (para
1.58) as a way of better meeting the needs and preferences of individual
families within the poverty group, while offering an opportunity to lower
average subsidy levels.
2.10     New Housing Construction - the  Rural  Subd  Program (RSP).  The
RSP is a variation of the Unified Subsidy program. A relatively recent and
small program, it is directed to poor rural populations and provides a
subsidy of up to 751 of the  value  of  the house.  The maximum subsidy has
been 150 UF (US$2,700) and the maximum value of the house has been 260 UF
(US$4,680); however under the project, the Government agreed to lower the
maximum subsidy for scattered  rural dwellings (without urbdnization works)
to 110 UF. Houses in villages will have a maximum subsidy of 150 UF and
maximum price of 400 UF.    Individual beneficiaries must have legal rights
to the property on which they will locate their house. Most beneficiaries
either build the house themselves or purchase a prefabricated dwelling
through the private sector.  Complementary loans either through the banking
system or through MINVU are not a part of this scheme, as many rural
beneficiaries would not have the cash income to service a loan or they are
located far from banking facilities.
2.11     New Housing Construction - the Public/Private Partnership Program.
A special program was initiated as part of the International Year of the
Homeless in 1987. This program, which is a variation of the BHP, produced
houses costing 210-260 UF (US$3,780-4,680) for allocation to organized
groups of the population.   Most  groups  were  composed of people who work
together. As an experiment, the upfront subsidy was reduced to only 60 UF
(US$1,080). In some cases, the contracting was handled by the SERVIUs,



- 20 -
while in others the group itself located their own builder. Complementary
loans were provided by the Banco del Estado for the difference between the
down payment by the participant and the upfront subsidy. The program has
been deemed so successful that the Goverrnent proposes to expand it and
rename it the 'Public/Private Partnership Program".
2.12     Upgrading of Housing Stock.  The basic objective of this component
will be to salvage existing deteriorating houses to make them habitable for
existing low income residents. This would reduce the need for new housing
and  contribute  to  the   stability   and  development  of  neighborhoods.
Ownership titles to individual beneficiaries who do not presently possess
them will be included as a part of the exercise. A new eff..rt on the part
of MINVU, the first year's program will be undertaken on a pilot basis to
gain experience. It is expected that the program will be increased in the
second and third years of the project and become a permanent part of
MINVU's lines of  action.    The  component  has  lbeen  subdivided into six
categories: rehabilitation, consolidation,  rehabilitation with sanitation,
extension,   tenement   renovation,   and   title   regularization.            The
consolidation component envisages the replacement of a shack with a basic
house, and thus is similar to the new construction program for basic
houses. The rehabilitation (with and without sanitation), extension, and
tenement renovation subcomponents envisage that MINVU would sign contracts
with NGOs for  implementation.    The  NGOs  would  identify  and work with
beneficiaries   to   design   improvements   and   supervise  construction.
Rehabilitation of individual houses would be limited to small houses (under
46  m2)  in  poor  neighborhoods.        Like  the  BHP,  financing  would  be
ac:omplished through prior savings, a subsidy, and a loan by MINVU. A
final decision has not been made yet on the amount of subsidy; however, it
is expected that subsidies would vary with the type of improvement. For
example, subsidies for rehabilitation of individual houses could be set at
10 UF, and subsidies for consolidation could be set at a maximum of 75Z of
cost minus the value of any subsidies which had already been given (e.g.,
for shacks located on sites and services lots which are replaced with basic
houses). MINVU plans to carry out the pilot program during early 1989. At
negotiations, the Government agreed to make a component acceptable to the
Bank legally effective by November 1, 1989 (para 4.01).   The Bank's revipw
of the detailed plans for the component would cover cost recovery policy as
well as all other aspects.
2.13     Technical Development.  The  technical development component would
include studies, technical assistance, training, and equipment to: (a)
develop new policies, instruments, institutions, and rules fzr the private
housing  finance  market  (paras.  1.26-1.35);         (b)  train  officials and
municipal staff in housing related matters; (c) fund local research and
demonstration efforts; and (d) improve the SERVIUs' accounting systems.
2.14     Tip to now improvements in  the private housing finance system have
been  accomplished  through  informal   meetings  of  Government  officials
responding to pressure from investors and other groups. The Government is
now interested in assessing needs and carrying out change in a more
systematic fashion. To this end, it will organize a Working Group by June
30, 1989 (para 4.01), consisting of experts from the interested arms of the
Chilean Government (the three Superintendencies of Banks, AFPs, and Stocks
and Insurance; MINVU; and the  Central  Bank).  The Superintendent of Banks
would chair the group, and act as secretariat. The Working Group, which



- 21 -
will be advisory in nature,   will measure the impact of recent initiatives
(e.g., the endorsable mortgage) and set the agenda for further domestic
mortgage market development.    Technical  assistance  financed through the
project will provide: (a) consultant studies to frame the optimal path for
development of the mortgage market and to examine specific proposals for
new initiatives; (b) a twinning arrangement between the Superintendency of
Banks and a mortgage agency in a developed country to help assess which
mortgage market mechanisms used  in  other  countries might be successfully
transplanted in Chile; and (c) a consultant member of the working group,
who  will  also  provide   analytic   input   to   the  secretariat.    The
Superintendent of Banks has prepared outline terms of reference for a study
to review the current status of mortgage market initiatives and to set
priorities for future actions.   At  negotiations, the Government agreed to
submit a report of the findings and recommendations of the Working Group by
June 30, 1990. The Government also agreed to carry out the plans of action
which would emerge from this report in order to meet project objectives
(para 4.01).
2.15     Through a broad range of  internal  and external courses, a 4-year
training program would upgrade the skills of about 1,850 sector managers
and professionals.    The  training  component  includes  financing of: (a)
participants and instructor per diem and transportation; (b) contracting
courses with local universities; (c) local advisory services; (d) limited
study v.-sits abroad; (e) supervision and coordination seminars; and (f)
tra.ning evaluation and follow up.
2.16     One of the strengths of Chile  lies in the number of excellent and
dedicated professionals in the housing field who are interested in tackling
te.hnically difficult problems--such  as  the  renovation  of tenements and
ways of efficiently implementin6 area renewal schemes. The project would
build c.n this  capability  aiic  predisposition  to  experiment by partially
funding small demonstration projects.    Such projecu.s have been undertaken
in the past before being integrated ,nto MINVU's regular investment
program.
2.17     The new accounting system for the SERVIUs would assist managers in
better understanding the revenue as well as the expenditure side of their
finances. The present accounting system, which is part of the overall
Governmental accounting system, offers adequate tools of financial and
budgetary control, but does not provide timely and good information for
management decision-making. Computer and related equipment would also be
included.
F. Project Costs
2.18     The total project cost  is  estimated  at US$1,133.8 million.  The
total foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$283.5 million, or 25Z of
total costs. Costs are based on estimated prices of January 1989. A
summary of project costs is shown below.



- 22 -
TABLE 2: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(In US $ millions as of January 1989)
ESTIMATED COSTS
Component:                                                   Z of      Z of
Local    Foreign  Total    Total   Base Cst
(In US$ millions December 1988)
A. Basic Housing              170.0      56.7    226.7       25        21
B. Public/Private Housing   127.4        42.5    169.9       25        16
C. Private Subsidized         472.1    157.3    629.4        25        58
D. Rural                       28.4       9.4      37.8      25         3
E. Housing Improvements        13.3       4.4      17.7      25         2
F. Technical Development         0.5      2.0       2.5      75         1
BASE COST              811.7    272.3   1084.0    100
Physical Contingencies (0)
Price Contingencies (4.8Z)   37.4        12.4      49.8      25         5
SUBTOTAL CONTINGENCIES       37.4      12.4      49.8      25         5
TOTAL PROJECT COST          849.1    284.7   1133.8        25       105
2.19     The nature of  MINVU's  investment  program,  which  uses lump sum
payments for the BHP and predetermined maximum prices for the USP, does not
require the imposition  of  physical  contingencies.         Costs include price
contingencies equal to expected international inflation rates of 3Z in
1988-90 and 4Z thereafter.   Taxes  of  US$205  million are included in the
cost estimates.
G. Financing Plan
2.20     The Financing Plan is contained in table 3.
TABLE 3: FINANCING PLAN
(In US$ millions as of January 1989)
Source.                 Local       Foreign      Total      Z
Bank                                   200.0        200.0      18
Fiscal Contribution         19.3        83.5        102.8       9
MINVU Internal Gen.        160.0       ---          160.0      14
Downpayments               102.0       ---          102.0       9
Banking System             569.0       ---          569.0      50
TOTAL                    850.3       283.5        1133.8   100
Percentage                75          25          100



- 23 -
2.21     Most of the investment  costs  are covered through downpayments by
the beneficiaries and mortgage loans made by the universal banking system
of Chile. Investments which would require financing from the Government 11
/ total US$463.1 million, 411 of investment costs expressed in US$. The
proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would cover 18I of investmerlL costs,
71? of foreign exchange costs and 43Z of public investment. The Bank loan
will be at the standard variable interest rate for 17 years, including five
years of grace. Of the remaining US$263.1 million of public investments,
approximately US$160 million would come from the internally generated funds
of the SERVIUs (ie. mortgage repayments to the SERVIUs), leaving US$103
million to be  covered  from  general  fiscal  revenues.   Mortgage finance
required for the project should not be difficult to obtain, given the
expected growth in the Pension Funds, which are the major investors for
mortgage bonds  and  letras  (para.  1.33).    However,  it  was  agreed at
negotiations that during the implementation of the project, MINVU would
maintain its agreement with the Banco del Estado or enter into arrangements
with other banks, to grant mortgage credits to USP beneficiaries, to
beneficiaries of the Public/Private Partnership Program. The Borrower also
agreed to use its best efforts to enter into arrangements with one or more
banks to grant mortgage credits to beneficiaries of Levels 2 and 3 of the
Basic Housing Program. In the event that such arrangements cannot be made
for BHP Levels 2 and 3, MINVU itself would extend such credits (para.
4.01).
H. Mortgage Portfolio of MINVU
2.22     Paragraphs 1.51-1.53 describe the significant decisions that MINVU
has taken, and the actions already implemented, to improve collections on
its large mortgage portfolio.    These  actions include: (a) incentives for
prompt payment, (b) computerizing loan accounts, (c) billing and follow up
(including foreclosure) by a private agent, (d) payment arrangements
through branches of the Bdnco del Estado, (e) simplified foreclosure
procedures, and (f) limiting future mortgage holdings. These actions have
already improved collections  significantly.    In addition, MINVU provided
assurances at negotiations that it will give maximum effort to resolving
cost  recovery   issues   affacting   the   SERVIUs'   mortgage  portfolio.
Specifically, the Government agreed:
a.    that  there  will  be  no  legal  impediment  to  initiating
foreclosure proceedings after payment arrears to MINVU exceed three months
'para. 4.01).   In  addition,  the  Government  agreed to provide necessary
facilities, staff and other resources to permit prompt judicial action to
defaulting debtors (para 4.01).
b. that no general renegotiation process or payment incentives
for mortgages financed under the loan would be initiated (para. 4.01).
c. that, in order to -)rovide a substantial incentive to the
SERVIUs for improvement in  the  r.covery  of their portfolio, the cvrrent,
demand-based  criterira  used  by   MINVU   for  central  budget  alloLation
distribution among the  SERVIUs  rill  be  modified  by a specific formula,
11/ This includes investments to be covered through MINVU's (i.e. the
SERVIUs') internal cash generation and a fiscal contribution from the
Governmert budget.



- 24 -
already agreed with the Bank, which bases part of SERVIU investment
programs on their collection efficiencies (para. 4.01).
e. on collection targets for MINVU's mortgage portfolio, under
which at least 80Z in 1989 and 1990, 85Z in 1991, and 90? in 1992 and
thereafter of the loans added to the portfolio would be no more than four
months in arrears (para. 4.01).   Furthermore, disbursement would be denied
to any SERVIU that falls below levels of 702, 752 and 802 for 1989-90,
1991, and 1992 and thereafter, respectively, until it meets these targe.s
(para. 4.02). Tests of compliance would be done on a quarterly basis.
f. that, as an additional incentive to MINVU to improve the
collection efficiency of its mortgage portfolio, at least 901 of MINVU
mortgage revenues will remain available to MINVU for housing investments
(para. 4.01). The cost recovery improvements proposed for implementation
under the project would result in incremental housing investments of
approximately US$65 million equivalent over the 1989/94 period, an increase
of 101 over a baseline housing investment of US$872 million proposed by the
Ministry of Finance.    The  project  has  been  dimensioned  to meet these
increased investment levels.
I. Site Planning and Housing Standards
2.23     In general, site  planning  and  housing  standards are modest and
appropriate. At the national level site planning standards are mronitored
and  updated  by  MINVU  as   established   by  the  Ordenanza  General  de
Construccion y Urbanizacion within the provisions of the Ley General de
Urbanismo y  Construcciones.    At  the  local  level,  site  standards are
required to comply with land use, density, and the primary street system
established by the Urban Regulatory Plan adopted by the Municipality to
reflect local conditions. Subdivision and building permits are issued by
the municipal Direccion de Obras. Site planning standards are also applied
by the power, telephone and water/sewerage utilities. For social housing,
MINVU also establishes minimum site design standards, including densities,
land use distribution  and  infrastructure.    Although  MINVU adjusts site
standards  periodically  to   achieve   further  efficiencies  and  greater
affordability, site planning computer models could assist developers
further improve layouts.
2.24     Space, materials, finishes  and  construction standards for social
housing are established by MINVU through decrees and further specified
through  bidding  conditions,   which   are   also  reviewed  and  adjusted
periodically. Although all housing units built by MINVU under the first
project are complete units, space requirements fulfill only minimum
domestic functions. Units average 28-35 m2 in the BHP level 1, 35-42 m2 in
the Public/Private Partnership Program and in BHP levels 2 and 3, and 45-53
ma2 in the USP. These spaces provide: two bedrooms, combined living/dining
and (for basic housing) kitchen/washing, and one bathroom. The BHP levels
2 and above provide for separate kitchen space and a third bedroom. The
typical BHP and Public/Private Partnership units are attached two story
row-houses with planned expansions.    The  typical  USP units are detaches
one- or two-story houses.



- 25 -
2.25     Standards for construction materials  vary  by region to take into
account local supply, costs and requirements, and allow flexibility to
developers. Unfinished columns, beams, walls and ceilings, superficial
electricity, and plumbing are specified in both basic and Public/Private
Partnership units. A review of building standards was completed after the
1985 earthquake and some modifications were made for reinforced masonry
structures.     Further  efficiencies   are   being  introduced  in  housing
construction by developers through partial prefabrication of components,
such as openings, structures, ind plumbing, and through economies of scale
resulting from the continuity and large scale of the MINVU housing program.
J. Project Implementation
2.26     In general, the staffing and  salary  scale  of both MINVU and the
SERVIUs are adequate for implementation of the proposed project. Of the
3,000 staff of MINVU/SERVIUs, about one third are university graduates.
The staff is well-motivated, capable and efficient, and are able to devise
and carry out even the innovative and new programs with a minimum of
difficulty. In cooperation with the NGO staff for the home improvement
component,  and  consultants   hired   on   an   as-needed  basis,  project
implementation should be on schedule.
K. Procurement
2.27     Recent  experience  under  Loan  2482-CH  has  shown  that housing
contracts for up to US$6.0 million equivalent have not elicited interest
from foreign contractors. This is due to the fact that the cost per square
met~er of basic housing in Chile is far below the average cost in the
international market, because of the low cost of labor and materials and
the high efficiency reached  by  the  Chilean construction industry.  Civil
works  costing  up  to   US$7.5   million   equivalent  would  account  for
approximately US$416 million equivalent or 40Z of total project costs, and
would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Although
no contract for civil works is expected to cost more than US$7.5 million
equivalent, if this were to occur, such contracts would be procured through
TZB in agreement with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement (1985). The
remaining 60Z of civil works is represented by the Unified Subsidy Program
(para. 2.08), which would be carried out by the private sector without the
direct participation of the Government.   Under this program, the choice of
houses is done by the beneficiaries themselves in the competitive housing
market. The hiring of consultants for the Technical Development Component
would follow Bank  guidelines.       Procurement  of  equipment (computers and
office technology) would be accomplished through local shopping for
contracts expected to cost under US$20,000, local competitive bidding for
contracts between $20,000 and $250,000 and international competitive
bidding for contracts of  more  than  $250,000.         Prior review by the Bank
would be done for:    (a)  the  first  two  contracts of each component and
subcomponent; (b) all works contracts expected to cost over US$3 million;
(c) all consultancy contracts; and (d) all contracts with NGOs. These
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.



- 26 -
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements 1/
(US$ million) 2/
Local
Project Category/Element          ICB      LCB       Shopping Other    Total
A) Civil Works
Basic Housing              --        237.7    --         --        237.7
(75.0)                       (75.0)
Pub./Pvt. Partnership    --          178.1    --         --        178.1
(55.4)                       (55.4)
Subsidized Private         --        --        --        696.8a/  696.8
(58.0)    (58.0)
Housing Improvements       --         18.6    --         --         18.6
(9.4)                        (9.4)
Subtotal Civil Works         --        434.4    --         696.8   1131.2
(139.8)             (58.0)  (197.8)
B) Technical Development
Technical Assistance                                       1.6       1.6
(1.4)    (1.4)
Equipment                              0.4       0.1                 0.5
(0.4)    (0.1)               (0.5)
Training                                                   0.4       0.4
_____    ______     (0.3)     (0.3)
Subtotal Techn. Devel.                   0.4       0.1       2.0       2.5
(0.4)    (0.1)    (1.7)    (2.2)
TOTAL                                                             1133.8
(200.0)
1/ IBRD in parentheses.
2/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
a/ For unified subsidy program, which is carried out through private
developers and contractors and does not involve MINVU procurement.
L. Disbursement
2.28     Disbursement for new housing construction  would be a fixed amount
of US$1,400 12 / for each newly constructed housing unit built or
subsidized under the project.    No  disbursement  would  be made for units
costing more than 400 UF  (US$7,200).    The disbursement of a fixed amount
per unit would give additional incentive to HINVU to reduce the cost of its
housing units which are built or subsidized under the project, thus leading
to continued cost efficiency and an emphasis on lower cost solutions for
the poor. Disbursement would be made upon evidence of contract completion
in the case of the BHP and Public/Private Partnership Programs, and subsidy
payment in the case of the  USP  and  RSP.   The project is a time-slice of
MINVU's three-year investment program, thus some disbursement would be for
activities committed in previous  years.    For the BHP, completions during
the first four months after effectiveness would be for contracts signed
before effectiveness under conditions established for the First Housing
12/  This  was  calculated  by  dividing  available  Bank financing for new
construction by the number of houses to be built or subsidized in three
years that cost less than 400 UF.



- 27 -
Sector Loan. For the USP, most subsidy payments during the first year of
the loan will be for certificates distributed prior to effectiveness under
conditions  established  in  the  Third  SAL.    For  the  home improvement
components, disbursement will be for 502 of total costs with disbursement
per unit not to exceed US$800.   Disbursement for the technical development
component will  be  as  follows:    (a)  1002  of  foreign expenditures for
imported equipment and 702 of total costs for locally procured equipment;
(b) 10OZ of foreign and 752  of local expenditures for technical assistance
and training;  and  (c)  501  of  any  civil  works  to  be  carried out in
demonstration projects in the component.
2.29     Loan funds will be disbursed over  a period of four years, and the
Closing Date would be June 30, 1993. The projected disbursement schedule
is given in Annex 8, and reflects the experience in the First Public Sector
Housing Loan.  For the BHP, the Public/Private Partnership Program, and the
Technical Development Components, disbursement would be made on the basis
of full contractual documentation for all contracts above US$1 million
equivalent. For contracts below this limit, and for disbursements on the
USP and the Home Improvement Component, disbursements would be based on
statements of expenditures (SOE). The related documentation, in this case,
will not be sent to the Bank but will be held by MINVU, audited annually,
and made available to the Bank on request.
2.30     To reduce the interval  during  whien  MINVU would fund the Bank's
share of the project, a Special Account in US dollars will be set up in the
Central Bank. The initial capitalization of US$30.0 million would reflect
the estimated maximum financial requirements of a three month period.
Replenishment of the special account will occur on the basis of standard
Bank procedures. Independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank will submit
a report on the Special Account not later than April 30 following the close
of the financial year.
2.31     The Government has  requested  retroactive  financing to cover its
investment costs incurred after the completion of Loan 2482-CH (June 30,
1988) and  the  expected  signing  of  the  new  loan.    Such financing is
justified, since expenditures have been made according to the requirements
of the First Public Sector Housing Loan and modifications introduced by
Loan 2892-CH for the Third Structural Adjustment. Therefore, a provision
has been made for US$20 million (10Z of .he amount of the loan) to cover
part of the request for retroactive financing.
M. Accounting, Auditing and Monitoring
2.32     As was  done  in  the  First  Housing  Sector  Project, MINVU will
establish  a  projeAt  account  and   information  system  to  allow  clear
identification of the cost and financing of items financed by the Bank and
to allow monitoring  of  sectoral  policies.    This account and monitoring
system will be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank,
and audit reports will be submitted within four months following the close
of the financial year. Audit reports will include opinions on SOEs and on
compliance with relevant Loan Agreement provisions.



- 28 -
2.33     In addition, an independent  auditor  acceptable  to the Bank will
carry out an annual audit of the SERVIUs of the Metropolitan Region, Region
V and Region XIII. It will also carry out an audit of the SERVIUs in each
of the other regions once during project implementation. All audits are to
be in conformance with Bank standards and guidelines and based on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.    Audit  reports  of the SERVIUs will be
submitted within four months of the close of the financial year.
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
3.01     Over the  next  four  years,  the  proposed  project  will provide
approximately 177 thousand new shelter units and assist in renovation or
regularization of the title of an additional 36 thousand units. This would
benefit about 800,000 low and moderate income people, more than 67 of the
existing population of the country. These benefits are particularly needed
to compensate for the lower household incomes which have accompanied the
adjustment of the macro-economy during the last ten years. In addition,
the project will assist in institutionalizing and consolidating: (a) the
good working relationships among MINVU, the private sector and the NGOs;
(b) the efficiency gains of the Government in providing shelter in
partnership with the private sector; and (c) the current transparent and
objective system of selecting beneficiaries, ranking them by need within
income  levels,  and  using  a  progressive  system  of  income  transfers.
Furthermore, the new housing program will permit a better market response
to the r.eeds and desires of individual families in Chile. There will also
be a significant beneficial impact from the technical development component
which is expected to streamline and strengthen the private mortgage market
of Chile, improve :oordination among MINVU, the municipalities and the
private sector, and seek new solutions to housing problems.
3.02     The project  will  continue  to  encourage  reduction of subsidies
through increased collections on the unsubsidized investments, through the
reduction of upfront subsidies, and through the elimination of residual
hidden rubsidies.    Additionally.  it  will  support  an estimated 165,000
person years of direct and 85,000 person years of indirect employment in
the sector 13 /.
3.03     Urban Poverty Impact.    While  it  is  the Government's policy to
ensure that all of Chile's population has access to housing, there is much
greater weight placed upon families at the lower range. Consequently, for
the lowest level basic units (190-215  UF), the upfront gross subsidy level
(including taxes and not counting  long  term  cost recovery) reaches up to
75Z of the value of the house, whereas for the units which cost more than
900 UF, the subsidy will only be 1-llZ of the value of the house. The
following table summarizes affordability levels of the various units which
are to be provided under the project.
13/ All of these jobs would not be net ones since there would be some
movement away from lower-paying areas.



- 29 -
TABLE 5: Affordability Levels of the Units
Avg.        I     Rq.
I of      unit       Incm.  Fam.                Z Fam.
Shelter           units      cost      for    Inc.        Z       with
Type              built      US$       hsg.   UF        sbsdy     access
BHP 1 (35 M2)    28,000    3,C00       15       2.0      74          94
Rural             16,000    2,000      15       1.3      75          96
BHP 2 (40 M2)    66,000    3,700       25       4.0   32-56          79 14
USP 1 (45 M2)    48,000    6,600       25       6.7      36          65
USP 2-3(70 M2)   20,000   13,500       25      22.4      32          17
Home loans        36,000    1,000      15       2.7      20          96
3.04     These affordability levels are understated  with regard to the USP
(45 and 70 M2 units) and  the  BhP  2, since they assume an average subsidy
(when a range is available) and an average price house. Those families who
receive a larger subsidy and a lower cost house within the permitted ranges
would fall into a lower income level.
3.05     Over  the  past  decade,  Chileans  have  experienced  severe  and
dramatic changes in their socioeconomic conditions. Consequently, several
previous points of reference (e.g., income level), cannot be used to
extrapolate for current conditions.   With  respect to the absolute poverty
level, no reliable figures exist.   However, some recent estimates indicate
that about 25Z of the population currently cannot afford a calorie-adequate
diet. Families in this group earn less than about US$76 per month, and are
considered the 'absolute  poverty'  group  15  /  in  this  report.   It is
estimated that 65Z of the households in Chile earn less than US$166 per
month, thus falling into the relative poverty level, earning less than 332
of the average per capita  GNP.   Assuming that low-income household devote
about 15Z of their income to shelter needs, approximately 752 of the
project works would be affordable to beneficiaries below the absolute
poverty level, with about 931 for the relative poverty level.
3.06     Environmental  Impact.    The   proposed   project  would  have  a
beneficial environmental impact through: (a) its contribution to orderly
regulated development of the project sites and reduction of erosion and
costly urbanization works in marginal areas: and (b) elimination of
unhealthy living conditions for  those  beneficiaries who would receive new
units or renovate their homes and  upgrade  sanitary facilities.  It is not
expected to have any adverse  environmental  or  social impact.  All of the
envisaged works  would  be  in  established  population  centers  which the
beneficiaries  themselves  select,   so   displacement  and  relocation  of
residents would not occur.  Construction  works  would be on land zoned for
such development and adequate compensation would be paid for purchased
14/  Based on average subsidy  of  402   Category includes BHP level 2, BHP
level 3, and Public/Private Partnership.
15/ In addition, a recent study showed that 452 of Chile's families do not
earn a sufficient income (not counting transfers) to pay for basic
household expenditures.



- 30 -
land, with titles awarded to final beneficiaries upon sale of the units.
Construction standards would be adequate to meet seismological and other
such requirements of the various zones.
3.07     Economic Analysis.    Annex  9  contains  greater  details  on the
assumptions and sensitivity analyses for this project. It indicates that
for the basic 35 H2 units, the IERR is 16?, while for the units costing an
average of about 400 UF and 1,000 UF, the IERR would be 13? and 112
respectively. Should benefits be 10? lower and costs 1OZ higher than
estimated, the IERR falls to about  12Z  for  the basic units and about 1.12
and 92 for the 400 UF and the 1,000 UF respectively.  The IERR for the home
improvement component is estimated  at  13?.    These investments rank well
with others in  the  economy  even  wVten  the  worst-case scenario is being
considered.
3.08     Risks and Safeguards.  The major risks relate to cost recovery and
continuity of policies. The strains of an election campaign may make it
difficult for the Government to take strong measures to improve MINVU's
mortgage portfolio.   The  election  campaign  also  may create pressure to
widen subsidies to middle and higher income groups. The last risk also is
political. Should the Government change, there may be a desire to change
basic policies. This risk is most pressing with regard to the potential
for a revival of subsidized or directed credit for mortgage finance for
middle incon. people, since the platform of the opposition which recently
won the plebi.cite calls for the revival of the savings and loan system,
possibly at subsidized terms.
3.09     In  all  of   the   above-mentioned  situations,  the  corrective/
preventative actions which have been worked out would significantly reduce
the risks mentioned.   Regarding  loan  recovery, the Government has nearly
completed computerizing all of its thirteen regional offices; and it has
hired a special collection agency to implement and follow-up on collections
with the duty to carry out evictions, if needed, for those able but
unwilling to pay  their  debts.    These  actions  have  already started to
improve collections. In addition, under the loan, the Government agreed to
a formula in which around 50? of investment allocations to SERVIUs will be
based on their collection performance; it agreed not to have further
rescheduling of the outstanding loans of MINVU; and it will retain the UF
system of indexing mortgages. Additional loan conditions would assure that
MINVU meets collection goals for each year of the project, and disbursement
would be denied to any SERVIU which falls more than 10? below global
targets.
3.10     On the question of  re-targeting  of beneficiaries, the Government
recognizes that it should focus upon the first five deciles. It should be
acknowledged that the upper middle and higher-level income groups are now
receiving only 6? of the public investments, not a disproportionate am-int
either individually or as  a  group.    In  addition, given the significant
indirect revenue which accrues to the Government from housing construction,
and given the high real rates of long-term cost recovery, the subsidies to
this group are more than compensated by additional revenue accruing to the
Government and the housing  finance  institutions.   The investment program
agreed for the project would continue to emphasize the poorest. With a
stronger economy and a wider array of intermediary mortgage finance
institutions  and   instruments,   it   is   expected   that  middle-income



- 31 -
beneficiaries would be able to move away from the small Government programs
which are afforded to them.    Both  this  project and a proposed Financial
Markets Project now under preparation are expected to assist in the
strengthening of mortgage institutions and structures.
3.11     Finally,  regarding  the  risk  of  a  change  in  Government  and
subsequent change in policies, the legal agreements make it clear that the
project is predicated upon continuity of present policies, and the Bank
would have the right to review new policies and programs introduced by a
new Government.   In  addition,  the  proposed  Financial Market operation,
which is expected to include  strengthening of the private mortgage market.
is considering loan conditions which address continuity of financial
liberalization policies. In any event, the general housing policies of the
present Government have widesrread suppDrt, and most of the basic features
would most likely remain unchanged.
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     At negotiations, agreement was reached on the follo-ing:
(a)  The Borrower affirmed that  it  will  continue to subscribe to the
basic policies given in Paragraph 1.37, and to execute programs
which implement these policies (para. 2.05).
(b)  The Borrower agrees that  before  October  of each year of project
implementation, it will provide  information  to  the Bank for  ts
approval on the number of solutions MINVU intends to implement
under each of its components and subcomponents and of any
significant changes which it intends to make in the operating
rules for each component (para. 2.06).
(c)  Annual Government expenditures  for housing investments, including
proceeds  of  the  Bank  loan,  will  not  exceed  US$250  million
equivalent during  the  period  of  project  implementation (para.
2.06).
(d)  The Borrower agreed to carry  out  the action program on subsidies
found in Annex 3, paragraph a (para. 2.07).
(e)  The Borrower agreed  to  make  effective  an  upgrading program of
MINVU, satisfactory to the Bank, by November 1, 1989 (para 2.12).
(f)  The Borrower agreed to  form  a  Working  Group  for advice on its
mortgage market by June 30, 1989, to furnish a report of its
findings and recommendations by June 30, 1990, and to carry out
plans of action in its mortgage market to meet project objectives
(para 2.14).



- 32 -
(g)  The  Borrower  agreed  to   maintain   its  agreement  during  the
implementation of the project with the Banco del Estado to grant
mortgage credits to USP beneficiaries, to beneficiaries of the
Public/Private Partnership Program and to beneficiaries of Levels
2 and 3 of the Basic Housing Program (para. 2.21).
(h)  To  improve  collections  on  the  MINVU  mortgage  portfolio, the
Borrower agreed (para 2.22):
(i)   that  there  will  be  no  legal  impediment  to  initiating
foreclosure  proceedings  after  payment  arrears  to  MINVU
exceed three months. In addition, the Borrower agreed to
provide necessary facilities, staff and other resources to
permit timely judicial action to defaulting debtors.
(ii)  that no general renegotiation  process or payment incentives
for mortgages financed under the loan would be initiated.
(iii) that investment programs to individual SERVIUs will be
partially based on their collection efficiency.
(iv)  on collection targets for  MINVU's mortgage portfolio, under
which at least 80% in 1989 and 1990, 85Z in 1991, and 90Z in
1992 and thereafter of the loans added to the portfolio
will be no more than four months in arrears.
(v)   that at least  90Z  of  MINVU  mortgage revenues will remain
available to MINVU for housing investments.
4.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached that disbursement would
be denied to any SERVIU which cannot demonstrate on a quarterly basis that
at least 70Z in 1989, 75Z in 1990 and 80Z in 1991 and thereafter of the new
loans added to its portfolio have arrears of four months or less (para.
2.22).
4.03     Recommendation.  With  the  above  assurances  and conditions, the
proposed project would be  suitable  for  a  Bank  loan of US$200.0 million
equivalent, to be repaid over a period of 17 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



;33 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
The Private Mortgage Market in Chile
Private mortgage market instruments and investors
1.       Private  mortgage  market  finance  (i.e.  outside  MINVU mortgage
credit) is funded primarily through issue of letras de credito hipotecario
but also by a modest amount of general Lank bonds (bonos bancarios).
Letras have been issued by commercial banks (including, importantly, the
state owned Banco del Estado) and by finance companies. They can be issued
in registered form or to bearer, in Pesos, UF1 / (or other adjusted value
admitted by the Central Bank) or in foreign currency. In practice, most
letras are issued and readjustable on the basis of the UF. Financial
institutions may only issue letras backed by existing mortgages held by
them and with matching maturities.
2.       The volume of letras  outstanding  expanded vigorously in 1983 and
1984 but slowed down in the  next  two years and has stabilized during 1987
in the 71-74 million UF range (annex table 1). Domestic commercial banks
are the principal entities to raise funds through issues of letras and,
with  five  entities  accounting  for  close   to  60X  of  all  letras  in
circulation, placerrent potential is fairly concentrated. Banco del Estado,
the largest mortgage lender, only takes the third place in funding through
letras as it finances part of its mortgage lending with the proceeds of
the issue of general bank bonds.
3.       The main investors in  letras  are  the  AFPs (pension funds) that
hold about 44Z of the outstanding stock of the instruments (as of end
1987). The Central Bank (22Z) and the commercial banks (15Z) are also
major holders but their relative importance, vis a vis the AFPs, has
declined recently (annex table 2).
1/  / The UF is a constant currency  unit.   Its value is adjusted daily to
changes in the consumer price index.



- 34 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
Table 1
MORTGAGE BONDS
(Letras de Credito Hipotecario)
Balance Outstanding 1982 - 1987
(Millions of Pesos)
End of                        Value                       Value
Period                   Outstanding                 in UF  (000)
12/82                      84,066                      57,396
12/83                     112,859                      61,873
12/84                     158,551                      71,098
12/85                     206,852                      73,394
12/86                     250,488                      75,934
3/87                     258,696                      /4,546
6/87                     266,089                      72,580
9/87                     273,490                      71,815
11/87                     287,723                      72,619
Source: Central Bank of Chile,
Superintendency of Banks
Table 2
MORTGAGF BONDS
(Lotras de Credito Hipotecario)
Holdings 1983 - 1987
(Millions of Pesos)
12/83        12/84          12/85         12/88          6/87         11/87
Financial Intermedieries    68.004*        74.658          90,110       104,698      110,596       109.733
Central Bank               30,000.       46,642          63,643       60,749        62,606        64,468
Comercial Banks            26,004        29,114          38,179       43,545        47,Z04        44,394
Finance Companies           ---           ---               288           404          687           871
Institutional Investors      64.575        76,098         109,437       1265081      137.06a       147.629..
Ponsion Funds              50,691        69,723          99,603       110,770      120,274       129,000**
Insurance Companies         2,828         4,984           9,207       11,484        13,987        16,624
Mutual Funds                1,158         1,391             627         2,807        2,796         2,006
Others                        2,280*        7,797           7,306        20,729       18,437        30,361
total                        112,959       168,561       208,852       260,488       266,089       287,723
*   Estimate;; no Central Bank data available
Estimates, Cht 129,426 million including MINVU lotras
Finance Companies: Until 12/84 included under commercial banks
Pension Funds: Excluding letras issued by MINVU (since 1985)
Sourco: BCC, S8, SVS, SAFP



- 35 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
The deficiencies of the letra
4.       The current private mortgage system--with  the letra at its heart-
-has, given rise to a number of problems that have restricted the growth
and depth of the  market.    Traditionally, commercial banks are short-term
lenders and borrowers and are more comfortable with business than household
clients. Residential mortgage lending does not complement their other
banking activities well, and is generally not a high priority activity even
if profitable.    As  a  result,  although  they  are  effectively the only
residential mortgage lenders, in January 1988 only two of the twenty-one
banks had more than 20 percent of their assets in residential mortgages and
less than half had more than 10 percent. Because many of the larger banks
did not emphasize mortgage lending, mortgages were only 5 percent of total
bank assets. Nearly one-half of the peso amount and two-thirds of the
number of all mortgages were held by only three banks, two of which are
reportedly close to their regulatory ceilings.
5.       Although the letras are  negotiable  and  marketable, they are not
viewed favorably by many institutional investors who wish to increase their
participation in the residential mortgage sector. Investors, for instance,
find it difficult to analyze the credit quality of a letra. Even if the
issuing bank's mortgage portfolio appears high quality today, it may not he
so tomorrow as new credi.s are extended by the bank. In addition, the
quality of th3 mortgage portfolio may not be representative of the quality
of the bank's other assets.       Institutional investors would, for instance,
much prefer an instrument  that  is  collateralized  by  a pool of specific
mortgage loans that can be examined for issuer specific characteristics,
such as credit quality and probable timing of prepayments.
6.       Institutional  investors,   other   than   commercial  banks,  are
generally  prohibited  from  investing   in   mortgages  airectly  and  are
restricted to letras. Nor do they originate or service mortgages. This
has effectively restricted mortgage origination and servicing to coLmmercial
banks. Because the number of commercial banks is relatively small and, as
already noted, many do not wish to make mortgage loans, competition for
mortgage origination and servicing is not overly intense. As a result,
spreads between the interest rate charged to mortgagors and the interest
rate paid on the corresponding letras are viewed by many observers as
overly wide and reflective of inadequate competition.  TJntil recently these
spreads tended to be near 4 percent, but have since declined to near 3
percent.2 This spread covers  the  costs  of  originating and servicing the
mortgage and of bearing the risk of default as well as a competitive
profit. The spread does not include interest rate risk, which is passed
through to the letras holder.
7.       A recent study by economists  at the Catholic University of Chile,
which was undertaken for a number of life insurance companies, suggests
that even the 3 percent spread  may  be  larger than necessary and could be
2/ The banks do not take this spread up front. Rather it is amortized
over the life of the mortgage in a pattern similar to that of the
repayment of principal so that a small proportion is paid early and
progressively larger amounts as the mortgage matures.



- 36 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
reduced to less than 2 percent if competition were increased.3 This has
reinforced the desire of some institutional investors to increase their
participation in the residential mortgage market.
8.       The two  major  institutional  investor  groups  that  both anpear
interested in increasing  their  investments  in  mortgages  and capable of
becoming substantial and viable players are the private pension funds
(AFPs) and the life insurance  companies.   Both are rapidly growing groups
whose liabilities are primarily long-term and who are in search of
additional long-term investments. At the moment, assets of both industries
are small relative to those of the commercial banks. The pension funds, in
particular are likely to become very significant intermediaries of longer-
term funds in the future. Total pension fund assets were valued at 14% of
GDP at the end of 1987. By the turn of the century these assets are likely
to amount to between 40Z and 50% of GDP. The AFPs have a natural habitat
of investment in longer maturity instruments and so it would be desirable
to develop the mortgage system along lines that would permit the AFPs a
wider range of real estate investments.
9.       There is also scope for  the  insurance companies to play a larger
role in originating mortgages.   That  they  have  not  done so to date may
reflect a number of factors, including the cautious nature of the life
insurance industry and the existence of overlapping ownership bet-ween
insurance  companies   and   other   financial   intermediaries   (including
commercial banks).  It  also  seems  probable  that  the economies of scale
needed to reap significant profits in the originatic :i process are only
reached at comparatively high volumes of business and insurance companies
have been unwilling to commit capital to the origination process to the
exten. needed to make it highly profitable.
New initiatives in the private mortgage market
10.      The Chilean government  is  examining  ways  in  which some of the
difficulties in the mortgage market noted above might be addressed. One
initiative that it has taken recently is to permit the development of the
endorsable mortgage. This initiative is likely to have significant, if as
yet  not  fully  defined,  ramifications  for  the  mortgage  system.   The
endorsable  mortgage  concept  opens  up   the  possibility  of  an  entity
originating mortgages and then passing these on with all of the credit risk
being carried by  the  final  investor.        This  in  turn  could  lead to a
broadening of the base of mortgage originators because there will be an
effective separation of the origination and risk carrying functions; more
institutions might be attracted to origination if they knew they had the
option to pass on the credit risk. The greater competition could therefore
force down the intermediaries' spread from its current high level. There
have, furthermore, been a number of other recent initiatives--like the bond
3/  In the  U.S.,  the  spread  for  mortgage  origination,   servicing, and
default risk runs about 75 to 110 basis points, depending in large
measure oni the mortgagor's downpayment.       The lower estimate holds for
downpayments of 25 percent and the higher for downpayments of 5
percent. U.S. savings and loan associations appear to charge a spread
of near 120  basis  points.       Chilean  mortgages  require minimum dowr.
payments of 25 percent, although a reduction to 20 percent is expected
to be authorized shortly.



- 37 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
convertible into a letra and the letra with a floating interest rate--that
have only found limited acceptability in the financial markets.
11.      In parallel with the  Second  Housing Project a proposed Financial
Markets Project (currently at the pre-appraisal stage) is expected to
contain, as part of a policy component, several measures that will permit
the securitization of real estate and other types of asset. By this means
the gr-wing resources of the AFPs will be harnessed without exposing them
directly to final borrowers.  It  is expected that this securitization will
be allowed to take two  forms.    In  the context of the proposed Financial
Market Operation in Chile, the government would permit the development of
closed-end mutual funds that will be eligible for AFP investment. One of
these closed-end mutual funds would be permitted to invest in real estate
and mortgage-backed securities.
12.      In a related  measure  the  AFPs  would  also  be permitted to buy
shares of closed companies that would be devoted exclusively to real estate
transactions and the purchase of mortgage instruments. After their fifth
year of operation these investment companies would be obliged to become
open (i.e. listed with the Superintency of Values (SVS) and disclosure of
information to the public). The AFPs in turn would be permitted to purchase
shares in these closed companies up to a maximum of 20Z of the tota.l amount
of equity issued by each of  such  firms.   This proposal would provide the
AFPs with a wider range of investing options in the real estate sphere. By
investing through an intermediary the AFPs would remain at arms-length from
the ultimate mortgage borrower.
13.      It is hoped that  the  proposed  Financial Markets Operation would
also contain the enactment of a legal framework for the establishment of a
central depository system. When such a system has been developed it would
provide a safe-keeping depository and a transfer mechanism for, inter alia,
mortgage related securities. This central depository would have the effect
of strengthening the infrastructure for the trading of securities and
reduce the risks inherent in the physical delivery of securities between
holders.
Defining a mortgage market component in the Second Housing Project
14.      The  government  is  seeking  to  address  some  of  the perceived
difficulties that exist in the present mortgage financing mechanism in
Chile. It is important, however, for the government to measure the impact
of the recent initiatives it has taken (the endorsable mortgage, for
instance) as well as some of the new initiatives that have been proposed.
At the same time it will be necessary to remain abreast of mortgage market
developments in other countries so as to be fully aware of options for
further  domestic  mortgage  market  development.    It  was  against  this
background that a mortgage market component has been designed that would
provide for the establishment of a twinning arrangement between the
Superintendencia de Bancos and a foreign agency (such as Freddie Mac or
other specialized entities in, for instance, the U.S.A. or the UK). The
component would also involve the establishment of a working group in Chile
that would study the prospective path of development of the private
mortgage market and the introduction of further appropriate innovation.
These two elements--the twinning arrangement and the working group--would
be mutually reinforcing. A foreign housing expert might come to Chile, for



- 38 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
instance, as part of the twinning  arrangement  and play a part as the need
arises, in the analysis being undertaken by the working group.
15.      The twinning arrangement  would  take  two  forms.    First, it is
proposed that experts from a foreign agency or agencies would come to Chile
for a period of 2-4 weeks to assist in evaluating the impact of recent
innovations in the private mortgage market in Chile, such as che endorsable
mortgage. The experts would provide an international perspective to the
analysis and would also help in the assessment of which mortgage market
mechanisms, used in other countries, might be successfully embedded in the
Chilean environment.   The  experts  would  develop recommendations for the
consideration by the Government of Chile and the World Bank.
16.      The second form that the  twinning  arrangement would take is that
Chilean mortgage market specialists would visit the 'oreign agency for
short periods to discuss the technical, economic, and legal issues
surrounding specific instruments or mortgage market segments in Chile.
They would seek to shed light on these issues with reference to U.S. (or
other country) experience or expertise.
17.      The Superintendencia de Bancos  would,  with the assistance of the
World Bank were appropriate, develop the twinning relationship with a
suitable foreign agency.
18.      With regard to the establishment of  a working group in Chile this
would provide a continuing mechanism for reviewing tne mortgage markets of
Chile and studying the scope for further innovation. The working group
would consist of experts from the interested arms of the Chilean Government
(Superintendencia de Bancos, Superintendencia de AFP's, Superintendencia de
Valores y Seguros, MINVU, Central Bank).
19.      The World Bank would finance  the operations of the working group.
The  secretariat  of  the   working   group   would   be  situated  in  the
Superintendencia de  Bancos.    The  financing  would  cover  the  costs of
starting up and maintaining the working group including the costs of a
permanent professional staff member, support staff and support equipment
and materials. It would also cover travel costs where appropriate.
20.      The working group would study, in the first instance, the expected
impact of recent innovations in the mortgage market and, in particular, the
introduction of the endorsable mortgage.    The  group would also study the
feasibility of a number of initiatives that have been proposed by the World
Bank on the basis of analysis performed over the last year. It would pay
special attention to the phasing over time of any new measures that it
proposes, given the importance of permitting the market to adjust to and
digest any individual innovations. The working group would also take into
account the need for an even-handed approach to the development of
different segments of the capital  market.    It  would be important not to
bias the capital markets unduly in favor of housing finance.
21.      The working group would therefore produce a set of recommendations
regarding the development of the mortgage market, which would encompass
specific  proposals  for   new   initiatives.         Reports  containing  the
recommendations yielded by the analysis would be prepared periodically
during the three year life of the working group. Recommendations would



- 39 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
also cover analyses  which  would  be  undertaken  in  future  years by the
working group. The Government of Chile and the World Bank, as part of the
Second Housing Sector Project would review the proposals put forward by the
working group. Any agreed policy changes in the first phase of the work
could be considered if the timing permits, for incorporation as a component
of the proposed Financial Markets Operation. Seminars would be arranged to
disseminate ideas or proposals arising from the studies.
22.      At the same time as  they  review  the  findings of the study, the
Government of Chile and the World Bank will discuss the terms of reference
for a subsequent mortgage market analysis would be drawn up.
Costs
23.      As part of the Second Housing  Loan the Bank would provide funding
for the establishment of the working group. Apart from providing funding
to engage foreign consultants as part of the working group this component
would also provide funding for Chilean officials to study mortgage market
practices in other  countries.    The  fundirg  would  also cover manpower,
equipment, and other costs associated with the working group.
Organization and Implementation
24.      The twinning arrangement  and  the  analysis  of the working group
would take place concurrently.   The  twinning arrangements would be put in
place by the end of 1988.    The  working group itself would be established
and have its first meeting by the end of June 1989. At this meeting the
working group would define the terms of reference for the study and submit
these to the World Bank for review.   The study should be completed by June
30, 1989.
25.      Implementation of action  plans  proposed  by  the  Study would be
undertaken  by  the  Government,   in   cooperation  with  its  supervising
institutions in the financial sector. At negotiations, the Borrower agreed
to carry out plans of action in its mortgage market to meet project
objectives of improving the efficiency and mobilization of private housing
finance resources.



- 40 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Description of Project Investment
1.       The proposed Chile Second  Housing  Sector Project encompasses all
of MINVU's investments in housing for a three year period. This includes
(a) continuation and improvement of existing programs, (b) the initiation
of programs to rehabilitate the existing housing stock and (c) a technical
development component which will include implementation of pilot schemes
for potential new lines of action, in addition to funding studies,
training,  equipment  and  offering  technical  assistance.    Through this
project, approximately 177,000 new houses will be built and 36,000 houses
improved. Disbursement will be set at a fixed amount of US$1,400 for each
new house which is constructed or subsidized regardless of cost.
P. New Housing Construction
2.       New houses will be constructed through extensions of Chile's Basic
Housing (BHP), Unified Subsidy (USP), Rural Subsidy and Private/ Public
Partnership Programs.
i. Basic Housing Program
3.       This is a program  of  public  sector housing targeting the lowest
income group of the urban population. Small, completed houses are designed
and constructed by private contractors under contract to the Regional
Housing Services (SERVIUs) of MINVU.   Generally  about 60 to 70 percent of
the contract amount is paid to the contractor upon completion and delivery.
The remainder is provided for as mobilization in advance of construction.
Land, connections for utilities, and infrastructure (water mains, public
sewerage system, and paved roads and streets) have been included in the
price of  the  contracts.    Contractors  are  responsible  for finding and
purchasing suitable sites, as most of the SERVIUs no longer own a stock of
land which they can sell them for this purpose. Most houses are one- or
two-story dwellings on individual lots, although some four-story walk-up
apartments are also built and sold as condominiums. To date houses have
cost about US$3,000.1
4.       In the  Second  Housing  Sector  Project,  based  on  results of a
housing policy study carried out during the First Housing Sector Project up
to three categories of housing by cost and by size of subsidy will be
established to take into consideration the varying needs and desires of the
lowest income group. The greater the value of the house, the lower the
subsidy. All basic houses will cost less than 300 UF (US$5,390) and
1/ At appraisal the cost of these basic houses had not exceeded 190 UF
(US$3,400) in central Chile and 330 UF (US$5,900) in the remote regions
XI and XII.   However,  these  prices  are  expected to increase due to
increases in the cost of construction.



-41 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
upfront subsidies will range from 48Z to 752. Thus, the total subsidy/cost
ratio granted through this program will be less than in the first project.
5.       As at present, potential beneficiaries must apply to the "Registry
of Applicants" and are selected by a transparent method which establishes
priority through evaluation of:    (a)  seniority  in the Registry; (b) the
amount of credited savings and length of time saved; (c) size of the family
unit; and (d) need, which is given the greatest amount of weight, based on
a rating in the 'Indice CAS', a national socio-economic scale giving weight
to some 30 factors, such as absence of visible signs of wealth, condition
of the existing dwelling, and income of the applicant. The factor ratings
are determined by a municipal social worker who visits an applicant's home
and fills out a form which is then processed by computer.
6.       At present, houses assigned through the BHP are financed by (a) an
up-front subsidy, (b) the savings of the applicant, and (c) a loan granted
by the SERVIU with a term of up to twenty years, at 8Z real annual interest
rate. The monthly payments may not exceed 201 of the monthly income of the
applicant and spouse.  At negotiations, the Government agreed to use the UF
or other adjustment system acceptable to the Bank for indexing new MINVU
loans during the project. MINVU would no longer offer an adjustment system
based on the wage index, which it adopted for mortgage restructurings in
1988. For the Second project, MINVU mortgages will continue to be offered
for the lowest level basic house, however, private mortgage finance for
complementary loans would be used for levels 2 and 3. An additional change
to the program will be inclusion of the cost of administering and financing
the construction stage of the house in its sale price.
ii. Unified Subsidy Program
7.       This program,  formula.:ed  by  MINVU  under  the  Third  SAL (Loan
2983-CH) was  begun  in  1988.    It  combines  two  former housing subsidy
programs, the Allocated Subsidy  Program  (ASP) and the Contractual Savings
Program (CSP) and it allows families  of modest and medium income who would
be otherwise unable to  purchase  a  home,  to  do  so directly in the real
estate market.  Three  categories  of  housing  are  available.  A range of
subsidies, awarded as certificates,  is  available  for each category, with
the greater subsidies available for the cheaper houses, as is shown below:
House Price                       Subsidy Range
UF              US$                 UF             US$
<  400             < 7,200        120-150       2,160-2,700
400-  900        7,200-16,200        100-130       1,800-2,340
900-2,000       16,200-35,900         80-110       1,620-1,980
Under the terms of the Third SAL, at least 90 percent of the awards must be
for houses in the 400 UF category,  and  no  more than 3 perce:vt may go for
the category above 900 UF.
8.       Beneficiaries are given 20  months  to  locate their own houses on
the open market or they may construct houses individually or through a
housing cooperative. About 302 of USP certificates are used by housing
cooperatives and NGOs. Certificates are redeemed at MINVU for cash by the



- 42 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
contractor upon delivery and registration  of the house to the beneficiary.
The balance of the price of the house is covered by the savings of the
purchaser and a  mortgage  loan  provided  on  commercial terms through the
housing finance system. The program also guarantees an interest rate ind
spread which sometimes results in the sale of the corresponding letra on
the capital market at a discount.    The Government agreed in the Third SAL
and in negotiations for this project to reduce gradually this indirect
subsidy to an amount sufficient to cover only short term commitment risk.
Awards of subsidies are distributed regionally according to demand.
9.       Potential beneficiaries  compete  for  subsidies  on a transparent
basis. They must register in a 'call, issued three times a year by MINVU.
At each call, priority for selection is determined by a system of points
which considers: (a) sum of previous savings; (b) length and regularity of
savings effort; (c) family size; and (d) amount of subsidy requested (a
lesser subsidy awarding more points).    The  ownership value of a site for
houzing construction counts as a portion of pre-.ious savings and adds to
the points. There is a basic requirement that applicants not own a home,
and applicancs for the 400 UF tranche must have family incomes under 15 UF
per month (US$270).
iii. Rural Housing Subsidy Program
1C.      This program is a  variation  of  the  USP.    It offers access to
housing for  low  income  rural  families.    The  maximum  value of houses
currently in the program is 260 UF (US$4,670) and the maximum subsidy is
150 UF (US$2,7CO).   The  value  of  housing  is  financed with savings and
subsidies. There is no mortgage ciedit because many rural beneficiaries
would not have the cash income to service a loan or they are located far
from  banking  facilities.    Most  beneficiaries  either  build  the house
themselves or purchase a prefabricated dwelling through the private sector.
11.      Beneficiaries  may  have  their   houses  built  individually,  or
collectively. The latter provides economies to small villages and other
grouped housing particularly for such services as education, health, roads,
etc. To apply individually, ownership or legal rights to a lot with farm
land must be proven. If the application is collective, the rights to the
land must be accredited to the housing cooperative or other organization
formed by members applying.   Under  the  project, houses built in villages
with urbanization works (infrastructure and utility connections) must be
priced under 400 UF with a maximum subsidy of 150 UF. At negotiatons, the
Government agreed to lower the maximum subsidy for scattered rural
dwellings (without urbanization works) to 110 UF.
12.      As under the USP, potential  beneficiaries apply at MINVU's annual
calls, and beneficiaries are selected by obtaining the highest number of
points for the type of application and the region in which they applied.
Points are based on: (a) sum of previous accredited savings; (b) length of
savings effort; (c) family size; and (d) amount of subsidy requested (a
lesser subsidy awarding more points).
2/ Presently, such terms include a 8-10Z real interest rate, a 12-20 year
term, and adjustment according to the price index.



43 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
iv.  Public/Private Partnership Program
13.      The Public/Private Partnership  Program  was  initiated as part of
the International Year of the Homeless in  1987.   It is a variation of the
BHP and produces houses costing 210-260 UF (US$3,770-4,670) for allocation
to organized groups of the  population.   Groups are formed by associations
such as unions, trade associations, companies, and municipalities. Most
groups have tended to be work groups, such as taxi operators, teachers,
etc. Contracting is done by the SERVIUs or by the group itself. depending
on their wishes.
14.      To the beneficiaries of  this  program,  MINVU grants a relatively
small subsidy of 60 UF.    However,  under  the second project, the subsidy
amount will increase to 80 UF, since the number of groups with sufficient
savings for an adequate down payment is being reduced. The balance, less a
small down payment, is financed by the Banco del Estado or other commercial
bank with a term; of up to  20 years, at the prevailing market interest rate
(8-IOZ plus inflation adjustment). the rate is guaranteed by MINVU through
financing the difference between the guaranteed interest rate and the
market rate obtainable through the sale of "letrasw (currently 5.5Z).
Indirect subsidies associated with discounted market prices for "letraso
are being gradually reduced (see para. 8).
B.  Housinlg Rehabilitation
15.      In attempting to reach a  larger group of low-income beneficiaries
with a wider variety of shelter solutions, as well as reduce the need for
new  housing  and   contribute   to   the   stability  and  development  of
neighborhoods, MINVU has decided to embark upon new lines of actiLn for:
(a) provision of loans to beneficiaries who want to renovate or expand
their homes, and (b) rehabilitation of tenement houses (conventillos).
Additionally, ownership titles will be provided to beneficiaries who do not
presently possess them. These new subcomponents, discussed below, would be
tested initially as pilot programs and expanded in the second and third
years of the project.   At  negotiations,  the  Government agreed to make a
program, acceptable to the Bank, fully effective by November 1, 1989.
16.      Recent studies conducted under  the first housing project indicate
that approximately 420,000 units nationwide (out of a total stock of just
over 2.5 million units) were deficient in at least one of the following
areas: access to potable water, sewerage, streets, electricity, title, or
they suffered from physical deterioration. A project partially financed by
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and implemented by the Ministry
of  Interior  through  the   municipalities,  is  already  providing  urban
upgrading for neighborhoods which are deficient in these services. MINVU's
proposed actions in this project would complemernt these activities.
17.      This   project   has   been   subdivided   into   six  categories:
rehabilitation, consolidation, rehabilitation with sanitation, extension,
tenement renovation, and title regularization. The consolidation component
envisages the replacement of a shack with a basic house, and thus is
similar  to  the  new   construction   program   for  basic  houses.    The
rehabilitation (with and without sanitation), extension, and tenement
renovation subcomponents envisage that MINVU would sign contracts with NGOs
for implenientation. The NGOs would identify and work with beneficiaries to



- 44 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
design  improvements  and   supervise   construction.    Rehabilitation  of
individual houses would be limited to small houses (under 46 m2) in poor
neighborhoods. Like the BHP, financing would be accomplished through prior
savings, a subsidy, and a loan  by  MINVU.    A final decision has noL been
made yet on the amount of  subsidy;  however, it is expected that subsidies
would vary with  the  type  of  improvement.    For  example, subsidies for
rehabilitation of individual houses could be set at 10 UF, and subsidies
for consolidation could be set at a maximum of 75Z of cost minus the value
of any subsidies which had already been given.
18.      Home  improvement  and  tenement  rehabilitation  projects  differ
markedly from MINVU's normal new housing and subsidy certificate programs.
Moreover, they generally require a higher amount of management and
technical staff for  successful  implementation.    Thus, MINVU has decided
that on efficiency grounds, it would set the overall parameters but it
would sign contracts with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO's) which
would supervise implementation of the works.
i. Tenemer.t Renovation Program.
19.      The  basic  objective  of  this  program  is  to  salvage existing
deteriorating tenement housing  and  make  them  habitable,  with access to
basic individual services including titles for existing tenants.
20.      Tenements should be  located  in  growing  or stable neighborhoods
with access to trunk lines anld edequate social services: buildings must not
be in such advanced state of deterioration as to require renovation which
approaches replacement cost; the owner must be willing to sell his unit so
that tenants could receive individual titles after improvements are made;
and the cost of improvement less subsidies should be affordable to the
residents. The majority of families should be within the first three
quintiles of household income distribution (earning an average of 2.13,
4.2, and 6.79 UF respectively).
21.      The task would involve  the  following  actions:  (a) negotiations
with the owner of the property; (b) orientation of the tenants and
definition of their roles and obligations; (c) technical designs and
layout; (d) construction; (e) supervision and titling with provisions made
for recovery of appropriate cost.
22.      Renovated units are expected  to  have  three rooms with a kitchen
and bathroom on 100  m2  of  land  for  each  complex  of units.  Costs are
expected to be as follows:
Land                           40 UF
Building                       60 UF
Design                          5 UF
Bathroom                       45 UF
Building impvts.               40 UF
Titling                         5 UF
Administration                 15 UF
Total                         210 UF



45                         ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
23.      Specific cost recovery details would be decided after costs become
clearer and beneficiaries are  identified.    However, it is estimated that
beneficiaries would require a montrly income of 2.6 UF, and at least 10 UF
in prior savings for downpayment. They could then receive about 140 UF in
subsidy and about 60 UF in credit at the standard terms of MINVU's other
luans.
ii. Home Improvement Program.
24.      The objective of this pilot  project  would  be similar to that of
the tenement renovation component, viz., halting deteriorating of the
existing stock of units while assisting low-income residents to consolidate
and improve their homes  rather  than  seeking  new  ones.   Sites would be
selected under criteria similar to those for the tenement units, but unlike
that program, beneficiaries who receive home improvement loans are expected
to be concentrated more in the first quintile of household income
distribution. The general stages of implementation include: publicizing
the program; technical inspection of works to be done with specifications
made in light of needs and resource of beneficiary; implementation of the
works; ex post evaluation of the works; and cost recovery arrangements.
Only householders with units up to 46 m2 would qualify under this program.
Such units should have average repair costs as follows:
Roofing                 18.2 UF
Bathrooms                4.4 UF
Fixtures                10.0 UF
Hardware                 4.0 UF
Walls                    4.0 UF
Insulation               2.0 UF
Interior sheathing       7.2 UF
Heater                   6.6 UF
Total                   56.4 UF
25.      On average,  it  is  estimated  that  a  typical  unit  would have
deficiencies which require only about 50Z of the above mentioned costs.
This, together with administration and related costs would amount to about
45 UF per household, of which about 35 UF would be a credit and about 10
UF, a subsidy.



- 46 -                             ANNEX 3
Ptge 1 of 4
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Housing Subsidies
A. Housing Subsidy Action Plan
1.       During negotiations, the Government agreed to adjust their subsidy
policies in the following manner during the Implementation of the project:
a.   Unit  prices  for  houses  produced  under  the  BHP  and the
Public/Private Partnership Programs will be set at a level sufficient to
cover the market price of land, all onsite infrastructure cost, pro-rated
offsite infrastructure (if applicable); superstructure cost, all applicable
-dministrative costs; and the cost of capital during construction.
b. Initial upfront capital subsidies under MINVU's programs will
range from 3Z to 75Z in accordance with the schedule for gross subsidies
set forth for esch of MINVU's programs below.
Gross Upfront
Progra                     Cost of House         Subsidies
Basic Housing Program Level 1            < 215 UF          751 of cost
Basic Housing Program Level 2        215 - 239 UF          56Z of cost
Basic Housing Program Level 3        260 - 300 UF          481 of cost
Public/Pvt. Partnership              210 - 260 UF          80 UF
Rural Subsidy Program                    < 260 UF          80-150 UF
(in villages with urb. works)          < 400 UF         80-150 UF
Unified Subsidy Program Level 1          < 400 UF          120-150 UF
Unitied Subsidy Program Level 2   400 - 900 UF             100-130 UF
Unified Subsidy Program Level 3   900 - 2000 UF            80-110 UF
c.  At the beginning of  1990 and each additional year thereafter,
there shall be a yearly reduction of at least 52 in the average subsidy
awards of the USP.1 /       Subsidy  reductions would be subject to review if
the Government provides evidence acceptable to the Bank that real incomes
have decreased, or construction costs or market interest rates have
increased, in such a way as to affect the overall affordability of project
benefits or the effective demand for houses.
1/ This could be done by either adjusting the allocation criteria to give
more weight to the amount of subsidy requested or by reducing the upper
limit of the subsidy range.



- 47 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
d. MINVU will ensure that there is a cash 2 / downpayment of at
least 5? in the Rural Housing Program.
e. MINVU will continue a reduction in per unit unit interest rate
subsidies in its Unified Subsidy Program with each successive decline in
market interest rates to reduce the total value of subsidies through
interest rates to the minim,m necessary to cover short-term financial
market fluctuations.
B. Analysis of Housing Subsidies
2.       Housing subsidies in Chile clearly  meet the criteria described in
Bank Treatment of Subsidies, SecM 87-49 of January 15, 1987. The specific
ways in which they do so is described below:
a. Clear Obiectives: Housing subsidies are designed primarily to
improve affordability of housing for lower income people. A secondary
objective is to provide stability for the private construction industry.
b. Resource Transfers: Housing investments (including subsidies)
are about 3X of Chile's fiscal budget and 62 of its budget for social
expenditures.  This  is  less  than  in  the  past, comparable to budgetary
expenditures in other countries, and reasonable given Chile's social-
economic conditions.    Housing  subsidies  are  generally up-2ront capital
amounts which  appear  in  the  Government  budget.    Implicit or indirect
subsidies have  been  limited  to  mor.gage  restructuring,  which has been
needed several times during the last five years, to match mortgage payment
obligations with payment capacity.   With expected growth in real salaries,
the further restructuring of existing mortgages should not be necessary.
d.  Targeting and  coverage:    Chile's up-front housing subsidies
were the example used in the  memo  for  good  targeting.  More than 90? of
subsidies go to the pcverty group, 55? for the absolute poor. Coverage is
very good. There is evidence that housing construction is keeping up with
demand; un-serviced slums are diminishing in numb.r and in size; and
despite reduced household income levels, housing conditions (as measured by
the census and by other household surveys) have improved steadily since the
early 70's.
e. Acceptance: Housing is generally consiciered one of the most
successful programs of the present Government. Its transparent process of
awarding subsidies is well-regarded by the populace. Most of the criticism
of Government programs is politicly generated and focuses on a) the lack of
subsidies for middle income people (ie. lack of subsid:.zed mortgage credit)
and b) the size of the program (people want a larger construction and
subsidy program).
2/ Or labor equivalent.



- 48 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
f. Transparency: The upfront subsidies are measurable (they are
reflected in the Government budget)  and predictable (for the same reason).
In general, the programs do not generate contingent liabilities. Even the
contractual savings schemes, which form  a  part  of the program, avoid the
contingent liabilities usually  associated  with  these  efforts.   This is
because: a) savers are not guaranteed a subsidy or a loan--only a chance to
compete for  subsidies;  and  b)  complementary  loans  are  maae at market
interest rates.    There  is  a  small  contingent  liability  in  that the
Government has guaranteed 752 of the principal amount of complementary
loans, should a sale or foreclosure fail to provide sufficient funds to
cover the loan.   Given  that  loan  to  value ratios are very conservative
(less than 752), the need for exercising this contingent liability is
small.
g.  Efficiency:    The  upfront  subsidies  do not replace private
savings, because the compet.tion for them is based preciaely on household
savings effort. They also do not distort the credit markets. However, the
up-front savings programs do increase effective demand for housing (and
thus the supply response) beyond what it would be without the subsidy.
h.  Administrative Efficiency:   The system is extremely efficient
administratively.   Criteria  for  participation  are  clearly explained in
brcchures and in the media, and evaluation of applicants is done through
administratively  simple  a.d   objective  mechanisms,  using  computerized
scoring to the degree possible.    The  lists  and scores of applicants and
beneficiaries are published  in  the  newspapers.    The development of the
subsidy systems has allowed MItNVU to cut its staff from 45,000 to 3,000
over a period of 15 years, while increasing the ou"put of houses available
with public help.



49                              ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Past, Present and Future Subsidy Levels
Before                   Second
First                    Project
Program                                Project      Present      Year 2
Basic Level 1                          93Z          781          75Z
Basic Level 2                          n.a.         n.a.         56Z
Basic Level 3                          n.a.         n.a.         48Z
Public/Private Partnership (in UF)   n.a.           60           80
Unified Level 1 (in UF)                200          148 1,       140
Unified Level 2 (in UF)                150          128 T/       122
Unified Level 3 (in UF)                150          108 T/       102
Rural                                  n.a.         75Z          75?
Notes:
a. Basic Level 1 includes implicit subsidies in the past and
present categories through not charging interest during construction and
administration.
b. Subsidies associated with the allocated subsidy program and
contractual savings program prior to April 1988 are included under 'Unified
Subsidy" levels 1, 2, and 3.
c. The predecessor program to the Public/Private Partnership was
the Special Housing Program of 1987 and 1988, whihc was carried out on a
pilot basis.
1/ These are average subsidies during 1988.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Training
1.       Objectives.      The  major  objectives  for  the  project  training
component are:
(a) To strengthen the performance capabilities professional staff
and management of HINVUS, SEREMIS, SERVIUS, MUNICIPALITIES AND
INTENDENCIAS in the areas of (i) housing policy planning and
promotion; (ii) housing construction supervision and quality
control; (iii) urban development and management; and (iv)
accounting, financing and auditing of housing projects.
(b) To facilitate the participation of the private sector in the
bidding process by training housing construction managers and
professionals in procurement policy, methods and procedures.
(c) To upgrade MINVU's training organization by (i) increasing
utilization of the training opportunities already available in
Chile; and (ii) improving the capability of MINVU's training
section in planning, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating
training activities.
2.      Description of the Training Program.   The training program for the
period 1989-1992 was defined to further the basic objectives of the
proposed project.   With  assistance  from  the  Bank,  UNAT has designed a
training program to improve the performance capabilities of about 1,850
people of which 1,750 belong to sector institution and about 100 to the
private sector housing construction industry.   Table 1 shows the number of
people to be trained by institution and by subject each year. About 1,430
people will be trained in courses organized and executed by MINVW using
MINVU's own instructors and facilities.    About 420 people will be trained
under agreements with local  universities.    However,  in all cases course
content will be defined by a MINVU technical specialist under the
supervision of the training unit.
3.      Components of the  Training  Program.        To  implement the training
program, financing would be provided under the proposed loan for: (i)
training courses; (ii) local technical assistance and study abroad; (iii)
training unit support; and (iv) studies in selected subjects related to job
description and evaluation.
4.      Training Courses.  The execution  of the training program includes:
(i) per diem and transportation for abolut 1,500 participants; (ii) per diem
and transportation for 14 instructors and three training unit staff during
14 weeks per year; (iii) financing of about 20 courses to be contracted



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
with universities within the country; and (iv) organization of four
seminars for coordination of training activities, to be attended by
training personnel and institution regional training coordinators.
5.      Consultant Services and  Study  Abroad.    A  local consultant (six
staff/months) would be engaged to assist UNAT in: (i) planning and
organization of the training program; (ii) designing a monitoring and
evaluation system for the overall program; and (iii) establishing a
documentation format and an information system for training. Provision has
also been made for technical training abroad for three MINVU accounting and
finance high level professional staff  to  give  them the opportunity to be
exposed to innovative mortgage repayment systems in other countries.
6.      Administration of the Training Program.   UNAT would be responsible
for: (i) planning, coordinating  and  monitoring the training program; (ii)
establishing  agreement  with   external   training   agencies;  and  (iii)
evaluating the results  of  the  training  programs.   To facilitate UNAT's
coordinating activities with the regions, meetings would be organized once
a year to discuss the training plan and implementation problems.
7.      Studies.  Under the project  training component, MINVU would update
the job description manual for all MINVU personnel categories as well as
carry out specific studies to evaluate the impact of the training program.
8.      Cost Estimate.    The  basic  cost  of  the  training  component is
estimated as US$0.35 million equivalent as detailed in Table 2 of this
annex. Detailed cost estimates for each component of the training program
are available in the Project File (Annex 12).



CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1 SUMMARY OF PERSONNEL TO BE TRAINED BY INSTITUTIONS AND SUBJECTS
1989 - 1992
(in number of staff)
MINVU/SEREMIS                   SERVIVS              1,,NICIP/INTENDENCIAS                        TOTAL
SUBJECTS            1089  19   1991  1992        1989  1990  1991  1992       18    1990   1991   1992         1969    1990    1991    1992       TOTAL
1.  Housing, Planning1      17/10 10/24 -      -         5/16  7/27  6/16  -          16/15  1S/21  18/21  15/16       37/40  3J/72   21/36   16/16        106/163
and Promotion
2. Housing Construction,   9/7   2/6  -        -         -     2/6   0/0   -          -       -      -      -           9/7     4/12    0/6    -            13/26
Supervision and
Quality Control
3.  Urban Devolopment        2/12                                                     30/190 40/400 40/40  20/200    32/202  40/400  40/400  20/200    132/1202
and Management
4. Housing Projecto
Accounting, Financing  10/0  10/0  -      -          0/25  0/32  0/28  0/10                                        10/26   16/32   0/26    0/10        26/93
and Auditing
S. Procur eme nt Policy,
Methods and             12/0  12/0  12/0  12/0       0/12  0/12  0/12  0/12                                        12/12   12/12   12/12   12/12       48/4J
Procedures
TOTAL             60/29 40/30 12/0  12/0        6/62  7/77  6/69  0/22       46/206 68/421 68/421 36!216    98/280  107/627 7J/487  47/237    326/1631
Notes
1The number in each fraction means: numerator = personnel to be trained in Santiago and denominator a personnel to be trained in Province.
2Subjects 1, 2 and 4 are coursos to be contracted with local universities, average duration between 30 and 80 hours each.
3Subj cto 3 and 6 arm courses to be delivered by Minvu instructors, averaging between 16 and 40 hours each.
o*
0



CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Table 2: TRAINING COMPONENT EXPENDITURES
(USS thousand)
MINVU - SERVIU'          SERVIU               MUNICIPALITIES               TOTAL
ITEM
LOCAL  BANK   TOTAL     LOCAL  BANK   TOTAL       LOCAL  BANK   TOTAL       LOCAL 8AW   TOTAL
1. TRAINING PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
1.1. Participant per diem and Trans a            3.00   12.00  15.00      4.00   18.00  20.00    124.00  -       124.00   181.00  28.00  159.00
1.2. Instructor per dlem and Iranap'             2.00    9.00  11.00      -      -      -         -              -          2.00   9.00   11.00
1.3. External Course Contract5                   6.00   24.00  30.00      4.00   16.00  20.00       3.00  11.00   14.00    18.00  51.00   64.00
1.4. Internal Courses4                           0.50    1.50   2.00      -      -      -           8.00  10.00   13.00     8.60  11.60   16.00
SUB-TOTAL           11.50   46.50  68.00      8.00   32.00  40.00    130.00  21.00  161.00   149.00  99.60  249.00
2. CONSULTA,VTS SERVICES
2.1. Local                                       3.00   11.00  14.00      -      -      -         -       -      -           8.00  11.00   14.00
2.2. Study Visit in Foreign Countriee           -       16.00  16.00      -      -      -         -       -      -          8.00  18.00   16.00
SUB-TOTAL            8.00   27.00  30.00      -      -      -         -       -      -           8.00  27.00   80.00
3. CENTRAL TRAINING UNIT
3.1. Supervision and                                                                                                                                             un
Coordination Seminars (7)7                 6.00    19.00  24.00      -      -      -        -        -      -          5.00  19.00   24.00
SUB-TOTAL            6.00   19.00  24.00      -      -      -         -       -      -           6.00  19.00   24.00
4. STUDIES
4.1. Job Description                             6.00   24.00  30.00                                      -      -          6.00  24.00   80.00
4.2. Evaluation and Follow-up                    3.00    9.00  21.00      -      -      -         -       -      -          3.00   9.00   12.00
SUB-TOTAL            9.00   33.00  42.00      -      -      -         -       -      -           9.00  83.00   42.00
GRAND TOTAL         28.60  126560 164.00      8.00   32.00  40.00    130.00  21.00  161.00   18660 178.50  346.00
1 Includes per di m for about 1,600 participants; 3 to 8 days course duration at US$ 16 per day and transportation USl 30 per participant.
2 Includes per diem for 14 instructors to develop 84 courses during about 80 weeks and transportation USJ 60 to 100 each trip.
3 Includes training courses for about 420 participants at US3 160 each.
4 Includes services (phone, rent, classroom, and printing material) overage US3 16 per participant. 
6 Estimate US3 1,000 per month during 8 months and USS 1,100 for per diem and transportation.
6 Estimate USC 100 per day for three staff during one month each plus USC 2,000 for each ticket and USC 100 for insurance.
7 Includes the cost of 4 seminars for 28 participants each at USS 120 per participant (ticket and per diem) plus 30 days of field supervision each
year for the training unit staff.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Detailed Costs
(in US$ thousands - current prices)
YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3    TOTAL
I T E M S
1. HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a. Basic Housing
Level 1                            37767    33739    37910   109416
Level 2                            25479    22761    25575    73814
Level 3                            18807    16801    18878    54486
Subtotal                           82053    73300    82363   237717
b.  Public/Private Partnership          62554    55878    59633   178065
c. Private Subsidized
Level 1 Unified                   140832    98244   100391   339467
Level 2 Unified                    79332    55341    56551   191224
level 3 Unified                    52515    36634    37435   126584
Rural                              16085    11577    11830    39492
Subtotal                          288764   201796   206206   696767
2. HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
Rehabilitation                       511       662       758     1931
Consolidation                       1056      1370      1567     3994
Rehabilitation and Sanitation        766       994      1137     2896
Renovation (of tenements)           1056      1370      1567     3994
Regularization of titles            1021      1325      1515     3862
Extension                            511       662       758     1931
Subtotal                                 4921      6384      7302    18607
3.  TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT                       851      883       902      2636
T O T A L                                    439144   338240   356407  1133791



- 55 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Detailed Costs with Contingencies
(in USS thousands)
YEAR 1    YEAR 2   YEAR 3    TOTAL
I T E M S
1. HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a. Basic Housing
Level 1                                37209    32272    34867   104348
Level 2                                25102    21771    23522    70396
Level 3                                18529    16070    17363    51963
Subtotal                               80641    70113    75752   226707
b.  Public/Private Partnership              61630    53448    54847   169925
c. Private Subsidized
Level 1 Unified                       138751    93973    92333   325057
Level 2 Unified                        78159    52935    52012   183106
level 3 Unified                        51739    35042    34430   121211
Rural                                  15848    11074    10880    37802
Subtotal                              284497   193023   189656   667176
2. HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
Rehabilitation                           503       634       697     1834
Consolidation                           1041      1311      1441     3793
Rehabilitation and Sanitation            755       950     1045      2750
Renovation (of tenements)               1041      1311     1441      3793
Regularization of titles                1006      1267     1394      3667
Extension                                503       634       697     1834
Subtotal                                4848      6106     6716    17670
3.  T_CHNICAL DEVELOPMENT                           833      833       833      2500
-CTAL                                           432649   323524   327804  1083978
Physlcal Contingencies                                0         0        0         0
Price Contingencies (4.8Z)                         6495    14716    28603    49813
SFANC TOTAL                                     439144   338240   356407  1133791



- 56 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Number of Units
YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3    TOTAL
I T E M S
1. HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a. Basic Housing
Level 1                             1C320      8339      9010    27669
Level 2                              5870      4743      5125    15738
Level 3                              3810      3079      3326    10215
Subtotal                            20000    16161    17461    53621
b.  Public/Private Partnership            15000    12120    12437    39557
c.  Private Subsidized
Level 1 Unified                     21215    13386    13153    47754
Level 2 Unified                      6214      3921       3853    13988
level 3 Unified                      2571      1622      1594      5787
Rural                                 7000     4557       4478    16035
Subtotal                            37000    23487    23077    83564
SUBTOTAL/ NEW HOUSES                      72000    51767    52975   176742
2. HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
Rehabilitation                         750       880       968      2598
Consolidation                          375       364       400      1139
Rehabilitation and Sanitation          750      880        968     2598
Renovation (of tenements)              375       364       400      1139
Regularization of titles             7500      8800      9679    25980
Extension                              750       880       968      2598
Subtotal                            10500    12169    13384    36053
T 0 T A L                                 82500    63936    66359   212795



- 57 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Detailed Unit Cost
(in UF)
YEAR 1    YEAR 2   YEAR 3
I T E M S
1. HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a. Basic Housing
Level 1                                  215       215       215
Level 2                                  255       255       255
Level 3                                  290       290       290
Subtotal
b.  Public/Private Partnership                245       245       245
c. Private Subsidized
Level 1 Unified                          390       390       390
Level 2 Unified                          750       750       750
level 3 Unified                         1200      1200     1200
Rural                                    135       135       135
Subtotal
2. HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
Rehabilitation                            40        40        40
Consolidation                            200       200       200
Rehabilitation and Sanitation             60        60        60
Renovation (of tenements)                200       200       200
Regularization of titles                   8         8         8
Extension                                 40        40        41



- 58 -                          ANNEX 5
Page S of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Public Financing Requirements
(in USS thousands - current prices)
YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3    TOTAL
I T E M S
1. HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a.  Basic Housing
Level 1                             37767    33739    37910   109416
Level 2                             14994    13395    15051    43441
Level 3                              9072     8104      9106    26282
Subtotal                           61834    55237    62067   179138
b.  Public/Private Partnership           20426    18246    19472    58144
C.  Private Subsidized
Level 1 Unified                     54162    37783    38609   130554
Level 2 Unified                     13752     9593      9803    33147
level 3 Unified                     4822      3364      3437    11624
Rural                               11908     8571      8758    29237
Subtotal                           84644    59311    60607   204561
2.  HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
Rehab,litation                        511      662       758      1931
Cons-.lidation                       1056     1370      1567      3994
Rehabilitation and Sanitation         766      994      1137      2896
Renovation (of tenements)            1056     1370      1567      3994
Regularization of titles             1021     1325      1515      3862
Extension                             511       662      758      1931
Subtotal                                  4921      6384      7302    18607
3.  TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT                       851       883       902      2636
T 0 T A L                                    172675   140060   150350   463085



59 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Percentage Public Financing Requirements
I T E M S
1. HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
a.  Basic Housing
Level 1                                  100Z
Level 2                                    59?
Level 3                                    48?
Subtotal
b.  Public/Private Partnership                  33?
c. Private Subsidized
Level 1 Unified                            38?
Level 2 Unified                            172
level 3 Unified                            9z
Rural                                      742
Subtotal
2. HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS
Rehabilitation                           100?
Consolidation                             1001
Rehabilitation and Sanitation            100?
Renovation (of tenements)                1002
Regularization of titles                 100?
Extension                                1002
Subtotal
3.  TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT                           1002



- 60 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 1
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of MINVU and the Regional Housing Services
1.        Responsibility  for  housing  sector  policies  and  public sector
shelter programs lies with the The Ministry of Housing (MINVU), which is
headed by a Minister who is assisted by a vice-minister and three groups of
senior level advisors. MINVU has its central office in Santiago. As chart
Cl  indicates,  this  office   is   organized  into  six  divisions  (urban
development, housing policy, finance, legal, technical development, and
external credit), and these have six support sections (social services,
public relations, organization, auditor, general services and personnel).
Apart from Santiago, representatives of the ministry are located throughout
each of the twelve regions of the country (in the SEREMIs) and they
coordinate their activities with the Housing and Urban Services units
(SERVIUs). The SERVIUs have the main task of implementing MINVUs program
throughout the country. The organizational structure of a typical SERVIU
is in  chart  C2.    The  SERVIUs  work  in  close  coordination with local
municipalities which must approve a site development before construction
and accept it for provision of municipal services after construction. (In
some instances they have also provided land for site development). The
municipalities are also responsible for verifying the socio-economic status
of beneficiaries who apply for the basic housing program (see chart C3),
and in general, they complement the SERVIUs needs with social workers while
the SERVIUs provide technical staff when the need arises (see chart C4).
2.        Over the past two decades,  there have been substantial changes in
the nature and role of public sector shelter agencies. The number of such
agencies and their staff mushroomed during the early 1970s, with the latter
reaching a peak of over 40,000 during this period. When the current
administration came into office, it consolidated all the housing agencies
into the SERVIUs. Over time the staff has been drastically reduced to a
total of approximately 3,000 in both the SERVIUs and MINVU. Neither the
quality nor quantity of output suffered because the government shifted most
of the construction, marketing, financing and related responsibilities to
the private sector and it kept qualified staff to monitor and manage its
programs.
3.        In general, the staffing and  salary  scale  of both HINVU and the
SERVIUs are adequate for implemention of the proposed project, given the
intention of using staff from the NGOs and consultants to implement the
rehabilitation  components.    However,  the  administrative  and  computer
systems needs to be integrated and made fully operational in order to
facilitate smoother project management. In addition, the accounting systems
of the SERVIUs need to be revised and computer systems improved to provide
better structured information for managerial decision-making.



Organizational Chart for the Ministry af Housing and Urban Development
Planning| MnclPsronc
|ft~a,  H onmr o   |                   _   _                 Mlmslend~ a-d ,
[veIopm~n1 Poh.e                                                                                        C
WE,[ cow              puolc               0,QI]f.ZOTEfl)                                     A.01SIkddPrsne
Se~~vces        9elotMSn             Dearatmrent                                     (jxyt'nenl              9atet etf
Rw),O.I  I,.t"  Iomc,f (S fd ml)                                                                                       I     rcl>oi       IIIs
L t~~~I LM                                                                                  \Al Lx xi  Yi   XMX'
RegIond HausAnQ OrI Ulo n D&er Io0r enl SoNCes 2 (NIUM
{  Port                                                                                              V*mdSarnW -42262  "



-  62 -                                        ANNEX  7
Page 2 of 5
Regional Housing Service
Typical Organization Chart
Sec ret 1 =
Deparmnwt
Legol               Programming             Admi istrtive             Technic                   ai
Department              Department             and Financi              Deparrment              Operatins
.Secretary             fSecretary
SubdrAsioi:
Secretory                                      Secretary         Subdivislon          Research and
1 Administrotrve Office   1 Administrative Office
I Technicion
Construction                      MCortectonse                ari                                S ubsidies
controcts                           oMo                    General                              SecTion
Administration                   I Technician           1 Technicion                        5 Administratrve Office
Office                       3 Administrative Office    2 Administrative Office
2 Chauffeurs
7 Auxil lIiary
rar)                   Acc ints~~~~                                              Alssgnments
Transfers   |                 |    Accounts                                                and Beneficiaries
and 8udget                                               Selection Section 
1 Accountant                                    2 Administrative Office
1 Technician
3 Administrative Office
Treasury
Office
Community                            Cormni        |
Officer                              Officer
I Chief of Division                  i Crvil constructor
2 Adminis'rotive Office              3 Administrative Office
I Chauffeur                          I Chauffeur
1 Auxilliary                         I Auxilliory
World Bank-42248 3



Stages for Beneficiavy Selection for Basic Housing Program
Municipailty  RJ Jesces
eglstr                                               - -egist -ot A-  -c-n   -  - dkban
Contractual~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
k  I                                                                    0s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sell house - applv sbidv - grant ban       I?e l al               Natkxnda HousirV Prograrn - Transfer res;>uces
ccou  ounHousing and
Applicant                                                     Urban                         Construction of ruous4
Developmnt                          Cnt.Hndhue
- 2                                          ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Service)
?   |           ~~Paw*nnt of divdends         C       M-AsonG 
ContraIctual                                                                                                                 Consh  two
AccouSnatforHoLslng                                                                                                                  ao
Ubd 8an-42248:4    tt) 
!n



National System for Housing Subsidies (DS 92/84)
Comotny
GraIin II _Housing
A    ant/Zone/Ateo
o~~~~~~~~Gatn of Ioa _hr stt banktl oder                         Se
Altorna                 Mor|gae loan paymenes                 oFi e
o tCtaConstnutor
t  Cooparative ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ r
,e            ooaob                       Registry
O |    o  _          o_                                      (    leistry of APPg fo I                              
| ; bji2                   o                            o (                     Benefiiories           f(   
g  1       -t            Grontingof subsidy     (       ~~~~~~~~~Housigng and   T ronsfer ofresoLurces         Mir*hyd Of
_         ~~~~Applicornt/                                             Urban Deveoprnent    Z                                  otjsing ond  
t  <                 , Gront~~~~~~ing of loan thru stcate barnk ordes  vi e                                         Ulrbon Devkyent
Alterno1e               Mortgage loun pbdy(ents 
- I  I        I?egulorsavilNgs                                c-
-o8                                                           CID_8 
O | rOg         ~~~Controcttx Sings                                c  
@ i 1          ~~~Account fori a              
21~~ ~ ~~                 ~~~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r         
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                                            -Ok xornce  cormponbes           7 0 
t    FinonchlInstlilo                 (StaeSoank)                                                                   40 t      WK*Adud   J               X
I~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I      7It
Issuaonce of bank bond (lethos hipotecorios)
VVrd *ak42248:11



Organization Chart: Typical Construction Company Project
Prot Dacth ratov
I I
HeadHofeHc,;vnH dc
Aoun                 pretobs                    ~~~~~~~~~        ~          ~         ~~~L and/stes  Dopcoltmnt           Arifnigiar
Deve opme nt   _ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Towct
ScorctractY              D,rec? In|c,,ecMotIofl                            Head ci         Head ca
LI
   TapoOmPhY   |            |    ~~~~~~~SubcontrOCts    | |Dirocn mpkXnentrotn |H Feaxd |ofidd                                          ||Outn
|  E  E          *                 |      ~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Iron~        &Avevin
I   I   I   I   |   Y   |                                                                         W EBaaci-t ns
I I   I r       I I                       I    ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Inskeratu  l   concleleh "K
H FOod of    |   Hewoddf          HOW} of                                      P(O IuCnsl  1  17   l  llon
L LcKMll        Pavin       mi Mscelbwouws    Woendwe                         Ce'lings            I        Parking
Patlwros                       SCQott"ng                                                                    
,,   ,         ,                                ~~~~~ ~~ ~~               ~ ~~~~~~~Sta015   |   T les  I                                                                    O  
I 11 IL j I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Etc |0il
World Bor|s-42248 5          - 1_



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement
Fiscal         Semester            During            Disbursement
Year           Ending              Semester          Cumulative       2
1989           30 June             50.0               50.0            25
1990           31 December          8.0               58.0            29
30 June            26.0                84.0           42
1991           31 December         27.0              111.0            56
30 June            29.0               140.0            70
1992           31 December         29.0              169.0            85
30 June            15.0               184.0           92
1993           31 December         16.0              200.0            100



- 67 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.       Ideally, in  calculating  the  Internal  Economic  Rate  of Return
(IERR) of th.e project, a comparison should be made between the associated
costs and benefits of the 'with" and 'without project" cases. For a
project such as this, various "without project' scenarios can be developed
and each wou.d have a reasonable probability of occurring.  The most likely
'without project' scenario is that of a drastically reduced investment
program with a majority of informal shelter construction on mostly
unserviced sites. Such an outcome would involve relatively low household
capital investment costs (for the units), but it would also have high
social costs arising from lack of adequate water and sanitary facilities,
transportation, etc. Also, since the majority of such investments would
most likely occur in marginal areas, they would require a disproportionate
share of financing to upgrade and service. Cost-benefit analyses of such
investments have invariably indicated net benefit streams with low or
negative IERR vailues.
2.       In orde.-  to  simplify  the  IERR  calculations  for this analysis
without  omitting  relevant  factors,  it  is  assumed  that  none  of  the
additional overall investment cost or reduced benefits in the "without
project' case would be counted as additional benefits of the project when
the two are compar,d.  This  assumption  is  a conservative one in light of
the factors mentiorned above regarding efficiency gains associated with the
orderly development of  project  sites.    For  the  new shelter component,
project costs incluce the market price of land, all on- and off-site (pro-
rated) infrastructure and superstructure works, and all administrative and
related costs.   No  residual  land  or  housing  unit  value is taken into
account; it is assumed that maintenance costs would be offset by such
residual values over the thirty-year life of the loan. Associated project
benefits are based upon the imputed rental values for similar units having
similar amenities, locations, service levels, etc. as those of the project
units.
3.       For the home improvement  loans,  it  was assumed that these would
finance the equivalent of an additional room with the associated cost and
benefit of such an investment. Although this assumption was made in order
to simplify the calculations, field observations indicate that most home
improvement loans are used for  room  additions.   Moreover, even for those
not used in this way,  the  .ncreased  rental  value of an improved unit is
usually equivalent to that earned by adding a room to it.
4.       The table below presents details of  the IERR of the project along
with sensitivity analysis with respect to cost and benefit variations.



- 68 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Internal Rate of Return (IERR) Calculations
(In May 1988 prices)
'5 R^  Jnit:                                45 M2  Unit:
(BHP Level 1)                               (LSP Level 1)
Iaotd       Not                                         ImOtd       Net
Invst.  Rent          Benft                    Yeir    Invst.   Rent          Senft
----   ----   -     -----        ---                  ----   -- ---- -UF -----
-                UF)-  --
1qt.o        0.0)    19?0.)                      ,      397.1        ,.( 0    X.
'O.n,  O    ,                                           55.0       55.1'
30.0       30.:)                     4                  "          55.)
30.0r      30.0                      S                  5,.i)      55.0)
IERR         1                                          IE&;         !''
Costs:    Benefit:        IERP                          Costs:    Senef:t:        IEP;
Siee       fall .X0          14                         Same       fjl. :I :   1A,
Up10       same               14%                       Uo 10%    same               1IX
Up 1A     fil.  10         I1'                        Up 10:    fil,  iP           ll
7z RI  Unlt:                                Hose leott. Liar,s.
lPtd       Net                             leoto        Net
in,st,   Rent         Benft                 Invst.  Rent           Benft
-- -- -- JF) -- -- --                        -- -- --(UF;--
7.t M   P' 794.1)              58.8        0.0      a58.8
01.        95*Q                               6.0        60
05.)      p'5.0                              6.0        6.0
q5.l)      QS.0                               8.0        8.0
IER&         11%                            IERR          1JX
::ss:    rere.t:          IE;               is s:    Benet t:          .E9R
Same       fail  .:.         i:X            Saie        fall 10%          1'X
!c '::'    same               I             UQ ii.:   side                l
UD  IO:    fal  O1X            q%           UD 10%    fall 10%            llX



-69 -                                  ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 5
CHILE
SECOND HOUSING SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPORTING TABLES
Housing Need and Construction
By Income Group
Thousands of Units - 1989
Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintile 4 Quintile 6 Total
Annual Housing N- 
For Now Households                11,500       11,500       11,600       11,500       11,600         67,500
For Replacement                    1,840        2,185        2,300        2,530        2,646         11,500
For Imigrants                      1,600        1,000        1,000        1,000           760         5,250
Total annual need 1/              14,840       14,686       14,800       16,030       14,896         74,250
Housing Construction Program
Publically Supported
HBasic Housing                                 12,000        6,600         1000          400            0        20,000
Public/Private Partnership            760       3,450        8,650        2,260             0        15,000
Private Subsidized                 8,427       11,216       10,796        4,771         1,789        37,000
Private
Formal Construction                                          1,000        3,000        6,000         10,000
Informal Construction 2/           7,065        7,086        4,710        3,532        1,215        23,550
Total Construction                   28,242        28,331       26,056       13,963        8,967       105,550
SurDlus Toward Meeting Backlog          13,402       13,646       11,2136      (1,077)      (5,928)       31,300
Notes:
I/ Annual need for growth derived by taking population growth rate and dividing by average family size.
2/ Informal Construction estimates are approximate and basod on an expected diminution of informal
construction rates since the last census.



- 70 -                                ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
Existin n Housino DefIc IncIos
By Incoa" Group
Thousads of Unit. - 199
Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintilo 4 Quintile 5 Total
Requiro ents Backlog
Now Construction Requirements
Roplacement of Substandard Units   109,000        66,000       51,000       28,000      10,000      263,000
To eliminate "Doubling Up   /         55,000      43,000       34,000       19,000       9,000      160,000
Subtotal                             163,000     109,000       65,000       47,000      19,000      423,000
Rehabilitation R.quirs mntc
Sanitation Only                      109,000     112,000       91,000       69,000      34,000      414,000
Sanitation A Improvement               4,000       4,000        3,000        2,000       1,000       14,000
Improveomnt V/                       32,000       23,000       16,000       10,000       8,000       91,000
Enlargeont !/                         57,000      76,000       62,000      65,000       28,000      277,000
Subtotal                             201,000     214,000      174,000      138,000      71,000      796,000
Notes:
1/  Doubling up is the sharing of a dwolling or a lot by tow or more households who maintain separato
budgets or cooking.
2/  Improvement includes remodeling to eliminste substandard el-emnts, the erection of a standard house to
roplaco a s*hck and the renovation of tenemnte into separate apartments.
3/ Enlargement refers to the adding of rooms to an existing dwelling to relieve overcrowding.
Construction Industry Grooth
1960 - 1967
Year _NP                 Constructione      Percent OMP    Cons.% Growth   Employment    Employment X Growth
1980       383,446       19,420             6.3X              n.o            161             ns.
1981       383,661       23,516             6.1X            2l.13           170             ,2.SX
1982       329,623       17,920             5.64            -238.X           84            -60x.6
1983       327,160       17,022             5.2X             -5.60            90             7.1X
1984       347,926       17,737             5.1X              4.2X          114             26.7X
1986       358,447       20,693             5.8X             16.13           127            11.4X
1986       276,627       20,862            565X               1.3x           184            44.91
1987       097,717       23,062             5.6X             10.6x          208             13.0X
Notes:
In millions of 1977 posoo.



-71-                                  ANNEX10
Page 3 of 5
Public Sector and Private Subsidized Hous. Sales
1964 - 1967
Year         Basic House        Subsixed Prlvate       Total          Of Which Santiago
1964         15,068             14,597                  29,480        16,914
1965         21,62              19,162                  40,524        19,024
1986         21,745             21,699                  48,644        22,539
1967         22,067             29,"96                  51,46         24,664
TOTAL        30,257             34,36                  165,118        93,161
AVERAGE      20,064             21,214                  41,278        20,540
Notes:
1.  Source:  MINVU Statistics
2. Basic Housing sales taken in year of allocation to beneficiaries.
3. Subsidized private sales derived by multiplying the number of subeidy certificates distributed in
previous year by 865
Housing Starts in Reporting Co_ unitios
i190 - 1967
Public and Private Sector
Number            M2 of                  Average
Year         of Houses          Construction           Houso Sizo CM2)
1980          43,310             3,068,287             71
1981          49,602             3,704,350             74
1982          24,139             1,329,895             55
1983          34,322             1,831,560             58
1984          41,676             2,122,342             51
1986          51,606             2,602,621             51
1986          42,332             2,412,753             57
1987          48,278             2,907,317             60
TOTAL 80-87         335,161            19,969,426             60
AVERAGE 80-87           41,895            2,496,179             60
AVERAGE 80-84           38,650            2,409,346             62
AVERAGE 86-87           47,304            2,640,899             56
Note: It is estimated that housing constructed in 'reporting co_unitio@g constitutes
about 90X of total formal sector housing production.



ANNEX 10
72 -                                 Page 4 of 5
e13 ldin. Permits In Greater Sentiso.
1983 - 1987
Public Sector        Private Subeidliod       Private                Total           X Public A Sub.
Yoar     NuNubr i2                                 Number      U2       Number       M2        Nuwbr  N
1983      9,332   822,063      7,843   351,269      3,025   266,294      20,200    939,646    65X    72X
1984     12,311   422,170      7,614   371,197      2,261   237,661      22,36   1,031,048    90X    77x
1S86     14,363   545,116    10,613   $12,001       2,997  $32,263       27,973  1,369,400    695    76X
1986      s,369   305,476      6,262   339,326      4,609   491,788      21,460  1,166,654    76X    69X
1987      8,693   293,637    11,431   534,098       6,025   637,000      26,049  1,664,736    71X    B0X
TOTAL    62,988 1,868,483    46,953 2,157,891    21,117 2,165,041    120,068  6,211,413    82X    66X
AVERAGE  10,596   337,696      9,191   431,678      4,223   433,006      24,012  1,242,263    62X    65X
National Urban Household Income Distribution
(In Unidadee de Fomento)
Number of     Averag-            Monthly Household    Adjusted Incom
Dociles     Households    Household Size    1986 UF                 1988 UF
1          198,336        6.2                 1.64                  1.92
2          194,766        6.1                 2.71                  3.39
3          199,673        6.0                 3.65                  4.64
4          208,246        4.6                 4.74                  6.90
6          211,636        4.6                 6.97                  7.43
a          210,663        4.2                 7.61                  9.47
7          213,638        4.0                 9.93                 12.38
8          204,196        3.8                13.41                 16.70
9          211,436        3.6                19.76                 24.60
10          216,461        3.4                48.44                 60.31
1985 income figure Is feom the 1986 census.
1988 income figure is 1986 fugur- updated for under-reporting.



-73 -                                   ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 5
fCHILE: Sje:ond HouSinq e '.ctor F'r:lj::t
lh de mlz    b Vam 1. tn I) p lad,
t,1S ,
1.4
'I1
1
;     1     i,
!
*   *'    !                                                               !
:1 ., Ii
tiM 1,I                     
.'s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 74 -                              ANNEX 11
Page I of 3
CHILE
SECOND HOUSINC SECTOR PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect Files
A. Sector Reports and Studies
1.   Analysis General del Desarrollo del Sistema Cooperative
Habitacional en el Periodo 1959-1987 - Ramon Undurraga Montes
2.   Chilean National Housing Programs Report to the X Session of the
United Nations Center for Human Settlements in Nairobi, Kenya -
Ministerio de vivienda y Urbanismo (April 1987).
3.   Chile's Housing Finance System 1976-1987:  A Decade of Stress,
Structural Change and Recovery - Bertrand Renaud (March 15. 1988).
4.   Estudios de Alternativas de Sistemas Habitacionales - Pontificia
Universidad Catolica de Chile (November 1986).
5.   Estudio sobre evaluacion de la cartera hipotecaria del sector
vivienda y proposiciones para maximar su recuperacion: Compendio
No. 1 - Deloitte, Haskins & Sells (April 1986).
6.   Estudio sobre evaluacion de la cartera hipotecaria del sector
vivienda y proposiciones para maximar su recuperacion: Compendio
No. 2 (Anexos) - Deloitte, Haskins & Sells (April 1986).
7.   Housing:  Social Improvement - Ministry of Housing and
Urbanization (1987).
8.   Informativo Estatistico No. 126-Diciembre 1987 - Division Tecnica
de Estudio y Fomento Habitacional (March 19e8).
9.   Inversion en Vivienda y la Recuperacion Fiscal
10.  More Effective Assistance for the Urban Sector - Walter Soto Silva
(March 14, 1988).
11. Programa Trienal - Sector Vivienda (1984-86).
12. Proposiciones de Sistemas Habitacionales (April 1988).
13. Sintesis del Sistema Habitacional en Chile - Peter Bromberg
Commentz (October 30, 1987).
14. Sistemas de Regularizacione:, Repactaciones y Reprogramaciones de
Deudas - Ministerio de Vivienda y UJrbanismo (03.05.88).



- 75 -                            ANNEX 1
Paso 2 of 3
15. Vivienda, Una Tarea do Dignidad - Ministerio de Vivionda y
Urbanisamo (1987).
16. Vivionda, Una Tares de Dignidad - Ministerio de Vivionda y
Urbaniamo (1988).
17. Vivienda. Una Tarea de Dignidad, Estrategia Habitacional al Ano
2000 - Division Politica Habitacional (April 1988).
18. Memoria MINVU (1987).
B. Project-Related Reports and Documentation
1.   Analisi  Encuesta Casen (Informe Final) - Instituto de Economia,
Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile (December 1987).
2.   Demanda (Informe Final) - Instituto de Economia, Pontificia
tVniversidad Catolica de Chile (December 1987).
3.   Pension Funds and Capital Markets - Francisco Perez Mackenna.
4.   Market for Mortgage Finance Instruments - Republic of Chile (March
14, 1988).
5.   Incentivos para recuperacion de prestamos - MINVU (October 1988).
6.   Cuadro de Requerimientos de Financiamiento Retroactivo - MINVU
(October 1988).
7.   Terminos de Referencia para el Disenc e Implementacion del Sistema
de Contabilidad Computarizado para el MINVU y los SERVIU - MINVU
(October 1988).
C. Financial Informaticn
1.   Finances of MINVU (October 12. 1988).
2.   Servicio de Vivienda y Urbanizacion. Informes sobre revision de
estados financieros combinados y procedimientos - Peat Marwick
(September 1988).
D. Brochures
1.   Alternativas de Postulacion Habitacional - MINVU (1987).
2.   Sistema General Unificado de Subsidio Habitacional - Ministerio de
Vivienda y Urbanismo (1988).
3.   Sistemas Perscnalizados de Atencion Habitacional - Ministerio de
Vivienda y L'rbanismo



-76 -                              ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
4.   Sistema de Postulacion de Vivienda Para Situaciones de
Harginalidad Habitacional - Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo
5.   Sistoma Subsidlo Habitacional Atencion Sector Rural - Ministerlo
do VivieD4d y Urbanismo (1987).
6.   300 Subsidio Habitacional - Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo
(1987).
E. Others
1.   Casa y Familia, Ano I, No. 3 (April 10, 1988).
2.   Chile:  Modernization 1973-1987 - Oficina de Planificacion
Nacional.
3.   Manual de Presentacion y de Instrucciones Generales Para la
Aplicacion de la Ficha Cas - Secretaria de Desarrollo y de
Asistencia Social (1987).
4.   SERVIU Metrooolitano, Minsterio de Vivienda y Urbanismo - La
Nacion (August 6, 1987).
5.   Tipologia de Desarrollo Progresivo - Universidad de Chile and
Universidad Central (August 1987).
6.   Training Component - Luis Pisani (August 19, 1988).
1
1



C, 00:    ~~~~~~T                          y     . ,l  
-  .                                                                 r-n_._ -a-> T    I     N
@~ ~~ - :I 1- -                                    .
-
.;   ..;   o..,                \.;,i.X .r        ,I    w    ,%--  c     iI----
-RG F N T I N A                                '
L  ,,USy==      -=r:,0=           T,l=        \,          ~     ,,,  
A-~~zEI      
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r 
Ae    P             G F  N                             m I  N     <r ~ )
I..                   '   ,-   <                              
m D                                                                             2i
a,~~~~~~~~~ -m  m~                                                    I _-



