Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3030 CH
(Second Housing Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 4, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3030 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MINVU" means the Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo, the Ministry of 
Housing and Urbanism of the Borrower, including its regional operating authorities 
denominated Servicios de Vivienda y Urbanizacion (SERVIU);
(b)
"U.F." means Unidad de Fomento, a monetary reference unit of the Borrower 
readjusted daily in accordance with the provisions of Decreto Supremo No. 40 
(Hacienda), dated January 2, 1967, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(c)
"House" means a house or a housing unit of a residential building;
 
(d)
"Beneficiaries" means, collectively, any individual with juridical 
capacity to exercise rights and assume obligations in accordance with the laws of the 
Borrower and who has been selected to purchase a House or receive financial 
assistance, or has purchased a House or received financial assistance, under any of 
MINVU's Programs or MINVU's Loan Programs, as hereinafter defined;
(e)
"MINVU's Basic Housing Program" means the housing program of the Borrower 
approved by Decreto Supremo No. 62 (V.yU.), published in Diario Oficial on June 20, 
1984, as amended to the date of this Agreement and as may be further amended from time 
to time in consultation with the Bank;
(f)
"MINVU's Public/Private Partnership Program" means the housing program of 
the Borrower approved by Decreto Supremo No. 235 (V.yU.), published in Diario Oficial 
on February 6, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement and as may be further 
amended from time to time in consultation with the Bank;
(g)
"MINVU's Unified Subsidy Program" means the housing finance program of 
the Borrower approved by Decreto Supremo, No. 44 (V.yU.) published in Diario Oficial 
on April 9, 1988, as amended to the date of this Agreement and as may be further 
amended from time to time in consultation with the Bank;
(h)
"MINVU's Rural Subsidy Program" means the housing finance program of the 
Borrower approved by Decreto Supremo, No. 167 (V.yU.) published in Diario Oficial on 
October 4, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement and as may be further 
amended from time to time in consultation with the Bank;
(i)
"MINVU's Upgrading Program" means the housing program of the Borrower to 
improve the stock of existing Houses to be approved by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 3.09 and which shall be acceptable to the Bank, as said program may be further 
amended from time to time in consultation with the Bank;
(j)
"MINVU's Programs" mean, collectively, MINVU's Basic Housing Program, 
MINVU's Public/Private Partnership Program, MINVU's Unified Subsidy Program, MINVU's 
Rural Subsidy Program, and MINVU's Upgrading Program;
(k)
"MINVU's Loan Programs" mean, collectively, any housing program of MINVU 
under which MINVU does or may make a loan directly to a Beneficiary including MINVU's 
Basic Housing Program and MINVU's Upgrading Program in all cases in which MINVU does 
or may make a loan directly to a Beneficiary;
(l)
"Loan Program Awards" mean, collectively, loans, subsidies and any other 
financial assistance granted to Beneficiaries under any of MINVU's Loan Programs, 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan;
(m)
"Loan Program Beneficiaries" mean, collectively, Beneficiaries of the 
Loan Program Awards; 
(n)
"Loan Program Payments" mean any payment obligations of any of the Loan 
Page  3
Program Beneficiaries under the respective Loan Program Award;
(o)
"Legislation" means Decreto Supremo No. 62 (V.yU.), published in Diario 
Oficial on June 20, 1984, Decreto Supremo No. 235 (V.yU.), published in Diario Oficial 
on February 6, 1986, Decreto Supremo No. 44, (V.yU.) published in Diario Oficial on 
April 9, 1988, Decreto Supremo No. 167 (V.yU.), published in Diario Oficial on October 
4, 1986, and the Decreto Supremo or other governmental action establishing MINVU's 
Upgrading Program, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and any legislation of 
the Borrower including, without limitation, constitutional provisions, statutes, laws, 
legislative decrees, decree-laws, decrees, regulations, and any other legal provision 
of a similar nature, directly or indirectly related to the housing sector of the 
Borrower;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower; 
 
(r)
"Banco Central" means the Banco Central de Chile, the central bank of the 
Borrower;
(s)
"Level 1 of MINVU's Basic Housing Program" means the part of MINVU's 
Basic Housing Program consisting of construction and financing of Houses with a living 
area between 28 and 35 square meters; and
(t)
"BEC" means Banco del Estado de Chile.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Banco Central on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
November 15 and May 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, acting through MINVU in respect of Part A and Parts B.1 (b), B.2, 
B.4, B.5 and, when applicable, Part B.3 of the Project, and acting through its 
Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras in respect of Parts B.1 (a) 
and, when applicable, Part B.3 of the Project, all with due diligence and  efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, land development and 
housing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall allocate the funds to be provided to the 
SERVIUs under MINVU's Programs in a manner, acceptable to the Bank, which takes into 
account the collection efficiency of each SERVIU in respect of the housing loan 
portfolio of such SERVIU.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower agrees that it shall throughout the execution of 
the Project take all necessary action, including provision of all necessary 
facilities, staff and other resources to permit the taking of prompt judicial action 
in respect of all debtors in default of their loans to the SERVIUs under the housing 
programs of MINVU and all debtors in default of their complementary loans provided by 
BEC or other bank or banks, as the case may be, in connection with said housing 
programs. 
(b)
Without prejudice to the generality of Section 3.03 (a) above, the 
Borrower agrees that it shall throughout the execution of the Project maintain, 
through contractual provisions and otherwise, the right to initiate foreclosure 
proceedings in respect of any loan secured by a mortgage, granted by MINVU to a 
Beneficiary under any of MINVU's Programs, as soon as any payment of principal, 
interest or other charges on such loan shall have been ninety (90) days in arrears.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not commence, or allow to be commenced, any 
process involving a general renegotiation of loans made under MINVU's Programs, or of 
payment incentives in respect of such loans, except as the Bank may otherwise agree by 
written notice to the Borrower.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower agrees that the collection efficiency targets of 
MINVU and the SERVIUs shall be the following:
(i)
the total number of Loan Program Beneficiaries who are in arrears 
for less than one 
hundred twenty (120) days on their Loan Program 
Payments shall constitute: (A) at 
least 80% of the total 
number of Loan Program Beneficiaries in the year 1989 and 
1990 
and in each quarter of such years, (B) at least 85% of the total number of 
Loan Program Beneficiaries in the year 1991 and in each quarter of such 
year, and 
(C) at least 90% of the total number of Loan Program 
Beneficiaries in the year 1992 
and in each quarter of such year and in 
each year and quarter thereafter; and
(ii)
in respect of Loan Program Awards made through each SERVIU, the 
Page  5
total number of 
Loan Program Beneficiaries of the SERVIU who 
are in arrears for less than one 
hundred twenty (120) days on 
their Loan Program Payments shall constitute: (A) at 
least 70% of 
the total number of Loan Program Beneficiaries of the SERVIU in the 
year 1989 and 1990 and in each quarter of such years, (B) at least 75% of the 
total 
number of Loan Program Beneficiaries of the SERVIU in the year 
1991 and in each 
quarter of such year, and (C) at least 80% of 
the total number of Loan Program 
Beneficiaries of the SERVIU in 
the year 1992 and in each quarter of such year and 
in each year 
and quarter thereafter.
(b)
Not later than each April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank information, satisfactory to the Bank, concerning 
(i) the Borrower's compliance with the requirements established for MINVU and each 
SERVIU in the foregoing paragraph (a) in respect of the quarter ending March 31, June 
30, September 30 and December 31, respectively, and (ii) all investments made by the 
Borrower under MINVU's Programs during such quarter, specifying the investments made 
by MINVU and each SERVIU in respect of each of MINVU's Programs.
(c)
Not later than January 31 in each year, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank information, satisfactory to the Bank, concerning (i) the  Borrower's compliance 
with the requirements established for MINVU and each SERVIU in paragraph (a) above in 
respect of the immediately preceding year; and (ii) all investments made by the 
Borrower under MINVU's Programs during such preceding year, specifying the investments 
made by MINVU and each SERVIU in respect of each of MINVU's Programs.
(d)
Without limitation to any provision of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall, in the event that any of the information referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) 
above shows that the Borrower has not met the requirements established for MINVU and 
each SERVIU in paragraph (a) above in respect of the year or quarter covered by such 
information, take all necessary measures, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to meet 
such requirements for each of the following years or quarters, as the case may be. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make available to MINVU at least 90% of all 
revenues arising from payments from recipients of financial assistance under all 
housing programs of MINVU, including all debt service payments and other payments by 
Beneficiaries under MINVU's Programs. All revenues made available to MINVU pursuant to 
the foregoing sentence shall be used for MINVU's Programs or other housing investments 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.07. Not later than September 30 of each year prior to completion of 
the Project, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank for the Bank's review and comment, 
the proposed housing investment program of MINVU, including investments under MINVU's 
Programs, for the following calendar year. The Borrower agrees that its annual housing 
investment program for MINVU for each year during the execution of the Project shall 
be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that its 
total expenditures for housing investments, including, without limitation, 
expenditures financed from the proceeds of the Loan, shall not exceed the equivalent 
of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000) during any calendar year until the 
completion of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take the appropriate governmental action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to enable MINVU's Upgrading Program to become effective 
starting not later than November 1, 1989.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall carry out the Housing Subsidy Action Plan set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall by means of its agreements with BEC, dated 
May 2, 1988 and May 18, 1987, (herein referred to as the "BEC Agreements") or by means 
of arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with one or more other banks, ensure until 
the completion of the Project the full availability of mortgage credits to qualifying 
Beneficiaries under MINVU's Unified Subsidy Program and MINVU's Public/Private 
Partnership Program.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall use its best efforts to amend the BEC Agreements or to 
enter into an agreement with one or more other banks, concerning the granting by BEC 
or such banks, as the case may be, of mortgage credits to the Beneficiaries of MINVU's 
Basic Housing Program (other than Level 1 of said Program). So long as the Borrower 
has not entered into such amendment or such agreement and to the extent that such 
amendment or agreement does not ensure the full availability of the respective 
mortgage credits to qualifying Beneficiaries, the Borrower through MINVU shall grant 
such credits to qualifying Beneficiaries.
Section 3.12. Loans made to the Beneficiaries under MINVU's Programs during the 
execution of the Project shall be indexed using a method acceptable to the Bank based 
on either (i) a U.F. adjustment system, in which the loan shall be denominated in U.F. 
and all payments of interest, principal and other charges on the loan shall be 
calculated on the outstanding principal expressed in U.F. or (ii) such other system or 
systems which the Bank has accepted by written notice to the Borrower prior to the 
implementation thereof.
Section 3.13. (a) For purposes of carrying out the studies under Part B.1 (a) of 
the Project, the Borrower shall establish by June 30, 1989 an advisory committee 
acceptable to the Bank (hereinafter referred to as the "Working Group"). The Borrower 
shall cause its Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras to coordinate 
the activities of the Working Group.
(b)
The Working Group shall have functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank, which shall include the analysis of potential changes and developments of 
the mortgage market of the Borrower within the context of the Borrower's overall 
financial market development and under terms of  reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
The Working Group shall from time to time, upon the request of the Bank, provide 
progress reports of its work to the Bank. A report of its findings and recommendations 
shall be due not later than June 30, 1990.
(c)
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on 
the findings and recommendations of the Working Group, including those referred to in 
paragraph (b) above, and shall, to the extent appropriate to meet the objectives of 
the Project, and taking into account the Bank's comment thereon, prepare programs or 
plans of action to carry out such recommendations. The Borrower undertakes to carry 
out such programs or plans of action in a manner which will enable the meeting of the 
objectives of the Project. The Borrower through its Superintendencia de Bancos e 
Instituciones Financieras shall at the Bank's request furnish to the Bank reports on 
the implementation of such programs and plans of action.
Section 3.14. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof, including, without limitation, Project accounts to be maintained at 
MINVU and each SERVIU.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
have (A) all records, accounts and financial statements of each 
SERVIU in respect 
of at least one fiscal year during the 
Page  7
execution of the Project, and (B) all 
records, accounts and 
financial statements of the SERVIU of the Metropolitan Region 
of 
Santiago, Region V and Region VIII in respect of each fiscal year during the 
execution of the Project, audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(iii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely affect the 
execution of the Project;
(b)
any of the annual or quarterly collection efficiency targets established 
for MINVU and the SERVIUs in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement has not been met. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in either 
paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date August 3, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
Section 7.01. The Minister of Housing and Urbanism of the Borrower (Ministro de 
Vivienda y Urbanismo) is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Vivienda y Urbanismo
Avenida Libertador Bernardo
O'Higgins 924
Santiago, Chile
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
240942-MINVU CL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Gustavo C. Montero S.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of
the Controller General
and of the Treasurer
General of the Republic
of Chile
Page  9
By /s/ Octavio Errazuriz
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Construction           108,700,000        100% of amounts
     or financing                              paid by MINVU up
     of new Houses,                            to a maximum
     as the case may                           amount of $1,400
     be, under Part                            equivalent per
     A.1 and Part                              House or subsidy
     A.2 of the                                certificate, as
     Project                                   applicable
(2)  Financing of new        63,000,000        100% of amounts
     Houses belonging                          paid by MINVU up
     to Level 1 of                             to a maximum of
     MINVU's Unified                           $1,400 equivalent
     Subsidy Program,                          per House or
     as such Level                             subsidy certifi-
     is set forth in                           cate, as appli-
     Schedule 6,                               cable
     under Part A.3
     of the Project;
     and financing
     of new Houses
     under Part A.4
     of the Project
(3)  Provision of             1,300,000        50%, up to a
     improvements                              maximum of $800
     for existing Houses                       equivalent per
     under Part A.5 of                         House
     the Project
(4)  Expenditures for         1,300,000        100% of foreign
     studies, training                         expenditures and
     and technical                             75% of local
     assistance, includ-                       expenditures
     ing consultants'
     services, under
     Parts B.1, B.2 and
     B.3 of the project
(5)  Goods under               500,000         100% of foreign
     Part B.4 of                               expenditures and
     the Project                               70% of local
                                               expenditures
(6)  Civil Works                200,000        50%
     under Part B.5
     of the Project
(7)  Unallocated             25,000,000
          TOTAL             200,000,000
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $20,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (6) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1988; 
(b) payments in respect of Categories (1) through (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of (i) the construction of the House in question having been completed pursuant 
to the respective construction contract, in the case of expenditures under Part A.1 
and, when applicable, Part A.2 of the Project, and (ii) the payments made by MINVU 
under its grant certificate and other financial assistance in connection with Parts 
A.3, A.4, A.5 and, when applicable, Part A.2 of the Project; and (c) payments in 
respect of the construction or financing of any House the cost of which exceeds the 
equivalent of 400 U.F..
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 above, and without 
limitation to the other remedies of the Bank under this Agreement, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of any loans granted under MINVU's Programs through any 
SERVIU unless the Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to it to the effect 
that the SERVIU in question has met the minimum requirements for collection efficiency 
established in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) in respect of the quarter when the expenditures 
were incurred with
respect to which a withdrawal is requested. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the efforts of the Borrower to: (a) 
increase the stock of housing for its low income population; (b) offer a greater 
variety of new housing types to meet the needs and preferences of its low income 
population; (c) introduce programs to upgrade the existing housing stock for the 
benefit of existing residents; (d) improve cost recovery through better mortgage 
collections and reduced subsidies; (e) improve the efficiency and mobilization of 
private housing finance resources; and (f) maintain its basic housing policies of (i) 
keeping governmental intervention in the housing sector at the minimum necessary, (ii) 
focussing the governmental participation in the housing sector on assistance to the 
poor, (iii) providing direct and explicit subsidies through the Borrower's budget, 
(iv) emphasizing transparency in the selection process of the Beneficiaries for 
purposes of its housing programs, (v) encouraging savings for home-ownership and 
home-ownership per
se, and (vi) assuring the long-term viability of a market-based housing finance 
system. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Construction of, and financial assistance for the construction of, 
approximately 177,000 new Houses, and improvements for, and financial assistance for 
the improvement of, approximately 36,000 existing Houses under MINVU's Programs during 
the period of three years starting the date of this Agreement, as follows:
1.
Development of land, design and construction of Houses, and financial assistance 
to Beneficiaries for purchase of a House under MINVU's Basic Housing Program.
Page  11
2.
Development of land, construction of Houses, and financial assistance to 
Beneficiaries for purchase of a House under MINVU's Public/Private Partnership 
Program.
3.
Financial assistance to Beneficiaries for purchase of a House under MINVU's 
Unified Subsidy Program.
4.
Financial assistance to Beneficiaries for purchase of a House under MINVU's 
Rural Subsidy Program.
5.
Rehabilitation of and improvements to existing Houses, financial assistance to 
Beneficiaries for such rehabilitation and improvements, and assistance to 
Beneficiaries for the purpose of obtaining full legal title to their Houses, under 
MINVU's Upgrading Program.
Part B:
Studies, technical assistance, training, office technology improvements 
and experimental demonstration projects as follows:
1.
Studies to: (a) improve the institutional arrangements, instruments, policies, 
rules and regulations for the housing finance market, and (b) design and demonstrate 
the feasibility of new approaches to housing and housing improvements for poor 
residents.
2.
Technical assistance for the development of new management accounting systems 
for the SERVIUs; and for the purposes of performing audits of the Project accounts, 
the Special Account and the SERVIUs.
3.
Annual training programs, satisfactory to the Bank, for the professional staff 
and management of MINVU, the SERVIUs and related public sector organizations; and 
seminars, promotion and dissemination of information for the private sector 
construction industry and related organizations; all in the areas of housing, policy 
planning, mortgage finance, housing construction supervision and quality control, 
procurement, urban development and management, and accounting, financing and auditing 
of housing projects.
4.
Acquisition and utilization of computers and other office technology equipment 
for MINVU and the SERVIUs. 
5.
Civil works to be carried out in connection with experimental demonstration 
projects which demonstrate viable methods for resolving housing-related technical 
problems.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1994
     through   November 15, 2005                   8,335,000
On May 15, 2006                                    8,295,000
Page  12
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but                         0.88
     not more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $7,500,000, 
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods under Part B.4 of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $250,000 may be awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Contracts for goods under Part B.4 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $20,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Houses included in Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project, as well as in Part A.2 of 
the Project when a direct purchase of a new House by a Beneficiary is applicable, may 
be purchased directly by Beneficiaries through the Borrower's normal private sector 
housing-marketing channels.
5.
Works included under Part A.5 of the Project shall be procured in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to (i) the two first contracts for works under each of Part 
A.1, A.2, A.5 and B.5 of the Project and for goods under Part B.4 of the Project; (ii) 
each contract for works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $3,000,000; and (iii) each contract for supervision of works under Part 
A.5 of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 
(d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making 
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the 
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required forthe Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been made out of 
the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4 .
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to Categories (1) through (6) of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
Page  15
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Subsidy Action Plan
1.
Unit prices for Houses produced under MINVU's Basic Housing Program and MINVU's 
Public/Private Partnership Program shall be set at a level sufficient to cover the 
market price of land, all onsite infrastructure cost, pro-rated offsite infrastructure 
(if applicable); superstructure cost, all applicable administrative costs; and the 
cost of capital during construction.
2.
Capital subsidies under MINVU's Programs shall not exceed 75% of the cost of the 
House for any Beneficiary. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree by written notice to 
the Borrower, the cost of House and the capital subsidy applicable to each Beneficiary 
shall be as set forth below.
                                       Cost of        Capital
    MINVU's Program                     House         Subsidy
     MINVU's Basic Housing            less than     75% of cost
     Program Level 1                  215 UF1/
     MINVU's Basic Housing            215-260 UF    56% of cost
     Program Level 2
     MINVU's Basic Housing            260-300 UF    48% of cost
     Program Level 3
     MINVU's Public/Private           less than     80 UF
     Partnership Program              400 UF
__________________________
1/
Such maximum amount to be applicable in respect of the Region Metropolitana de 
Santiago; maximum 
amounts for other Regions may be higher subject to written 
Page  16
agreement by the Bank.
                                       Cost of        Capital
    MINVU's Program                     House         Subsidy
     MINVU's Rural Subsidy Program    less than     80-110 UF
                                      260 UF
     MINVU's Rural Subsidy Program    less than     80-150 UF
     (in respect of Houses            400 UF
     situated in rural villages
     with urbanization works)
     MINVU's Unified Subsidy          less than     120-150 UF
     Program Level 1                  400 UF
     MINVU's Unified Subsidy          400-900 UF    100-130 UF
     Program Level 2
     MINVU's Unified Subsidy          900-2000 UF   80-110 UF
     Program Level 3
     MINVU's Upgrading Program        Not           To be deter-
                                      applicable    mined pur-
                                                    suant to
                                                    Section 3.09
                                                    of this
                                                    Agreement
3.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, the Borrower may always award a capital 
subsidy to any Beneficiary which is less than the subsidy set forth in the Schedule in 
said paragraph 2.
4.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the average capital subsidy awarded 
per Beneficiary under MINVU's Unified Subsidy Program shall be reduced by at least 
five (5) percent in the year 1990, compared to the  average capital subsidy awarded 
per Beneficiary under such Program in the year 1989. In the year 1991 and each year 
thereafter during the execution of the Project, the average capital subsidy under such 
Program shall be reduced further by at least five (5) percent, compared to the average 
capital subsidy awarded in the immediate preceding year. The Bank may by written 
notice to the Borrower agree to an annual reduction of less than five (5) percent in 
said average capital subsidy if the Borrower, not later than September 30 of the year 
for which a lesser subsidy reduction is requested, provides to the Bank evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that real incomes have decreased, or construction costs or 
market interest rates have increased, in such a way as to affect the overall 
affordability or the effective demand for Houses.
5.
Each recipient of financial assistance under MINVU's Rural Housing Program shall 
be obligated to make a down payment equivalent to at least five (5) percent of the 
cost of the House. Such down payment shall be made either in cash, or by providing the 
equivalent amount of labor.
6.
The Borrower shall, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, reduce its overall and 
per unit interest rate subsidies in connection with  MINVU's  Unified Subsidy Program, 
MINVU's Public/Private Partnership Program, and, when applicable, MINVU's Basic 
Housing Program.
