Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2418-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
May 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =              Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                   =              Cr$ 19.15 (October, 1978)*
Cr$1.00                                  US$0.0522
Cr$1 million              =              US$52,219
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                           10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km2)        =        100 ha = 247.1 acres = 0.386
3                         sq. miles
1 cubic meter (m )                       1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (Kg)                          2.2 pounds
1 ton                           =        1,000 Kg = 2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
*   Average Exchange Rates:
October
1975     1976      1977     1978
US$1.00   =   Cr$          8.128    10.786   14.138   19.15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY. OF ACRONYMS
ASSOCENE    ^  Associacao de Orientacao as Cooperativas do Nordeste (Association
for the Orientation of Cooperatives in the Northeast).
BB          -  Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BNB         -  Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
BANDEPE     -  Banco do Estado de Pernambuco (State Bank of Pernambuco)
CAGEP       -  Companhia de Armazens Gerais do Estado de Pernambuco
(State Storage Company)
CEASA       -  Centrais de Abastecimento de Pernambuco S.A.  (Central
Marketing Organization of Pernambuco)
CEBRAE      -  Centro Brasileiro de Ass:Lstencia as Pequenas e Medias Empresas
(Brazilean Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises)
CELPE       -  Companhia de Electrificacao de Pernambuco
(State Electrification Company)
CEPA-PE     - Fundacao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola
(State Agricultural Plananing Commission)
CIBRAZEM    a  Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
(Brazilian Storage Company)
CILPE       =  Companhia de Industrializacao de Leite de Pernambuco
(State Milk Marketing CDmpany)
CISAGRO     =  Companhia Integrada de Servicos Agropecuarios de Pernambuco
(State Integrated Agricultural Service Company)
COBAL       -  Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazilian Food Company)
COCANE      -  Cooperativa Central Agricola de Nordeste (Central Cooperative
of Agricultural Cooperatives in Northeast Brazil)
COMPESA     -  Companhia Pernambucana de Saneamento (State Watersupply and
Sanitation Company)
CONDEPE     -  Instituto Pernambucano de Desenvolvimento (State Development Institute)
CPRH        a  Companhia Pernambucana de Poluicao Ambiental e Desenvolvimento de
Recursos Hidraulicos (State Pollution Control and Water Resources
Development Institute)
DAC         -  Departamento de Assistencia as Cooperativas (State Department
for Assistance to Cooperatives)
DER-PE      -  Departamento de Estradas; de todaRem  (State Highway Department)
DNER        =  Departamento National de Estradas de Rodagem (National Highway
Department)
DNOCS       -  Departamento National de Obras Contra as Secas (National
Department for Anti-Drought Operations)
DNOS        =  Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento (National Department
for Watersupplv and Sanitation Works)
DPV         -  Departamento de Producac Vegetal (Department of Plant Production)
EMATER-PE   =  Empresa de Assistencia l'ecnica e Extensao Rural de Pernambuco
(State Rural Extension Company)
EMBRATER    =  Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural (Brazilian
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA     =  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Brazilian
Agricultural Research Company)
FECOFIPE    =  Federacao de Cooperativas Mixtas de Pernambuco (Federation of
Mixed Cooperatives in T'ernambuco)
FSESP       =  Fundacao de Servico Especial de Saude Publica (Foundation for
Special Health Services)
FUNRURAL    =  Fundo de Assistencia ao rrabalhador Rural (Assistance Fund for
Rural Workers)
FUSAM       =  Fundacao de Saude Amaury de Medeiros (Health Foundation of
Amaury de Medeiros)
GECA        =  Grupo Especial de Coordinacao e Acompanhamento (POLONORDESTE
Special Coordinating Group in Brasilia)
GRPN        -  Grupo Regional de Polonordeste (POLONORDESTE Rcgional (Coordinating
Group, ir. nce_fe)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS (Continued)
IBGE        -  Instituto Brazileiro de Geografia e Estadistica (Brazilian
Institute for Geography and Statistics)
INAN        =  Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao (National Nutrition
Institute)
INCRA       =  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (National
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
INAMPS      =  Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica e Provisao Social
(National Institute for Social Security and Medical Assistance)
IPA-PE      =  Instituto de Pesquisa da Agricultura de Pernambuco (State
Agricultural Research Institute)
IPEA        =  Instituto de Pesquisa de Algodao (Cotton Research Institute)
ITEP        =  Instituto Tecnologico de Pernambuco (Technological Institute of
Permanbuco)
MOBRAL      =  Movimento Brasileiro de Alfabetizacao (Brazilian Literacy Movement)
MVR         =  Maior Valor de Referencia (Maximum Reference Value)
NAI-PE      = Nucleo de Assistencia Industrial de Pernambuco (Center for
Industrial Technical Assistance in Pernambuco)
PENA        =  Pequenas  Empresas Nao-Agricolas (Special small scale non-
agricultural enterprises)
PINES       =  Programa Integrado de Mestrado em Economia e Sociologia de UFPe
(Tntparptpd Masters Prozram of Economy and Sociology of the UFPe)
PIPMO       -  Programa Intensivo de Preparacao de Mao-de-Obra (Intensive Program
for the Train.ine of Labor)
PIASS       =  Programa de Interiorizacac das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento (Program
for the Extension of Health and Sanitation Activities)
PMU         =  Project Management Unit of the Agreste Setentrional Rural Development
Project (Gerencia do Projeto Integrado de Desenvolvimento Rural -
PDRI - do Agreste Setentrional)                        r
POLONORDESTE= Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste (Develop-
ment Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast of Brazil)
PROAGRO     =  Programa de Garantia da Atividade Agricola (Agricultural Production
Insurance Program)
PROTERRA    = Programa de Redistribuicao da Terra e de Estimulo a Agro-Industria do
Norte e do Nordeste (Program for Land Redistribution and Development
in the North and Northeast of Brazil)
SEC            Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura  (State Secretariat of Education)
SENAC       =  Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Commercial (National Service for
Apprenticeship in Commerce)
SENAI       =  Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial (National Service for
Apprenticeship in Industry)
SENAR       =  Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Agricola (Nacional Service for
Apprenticeship in Agriculture)
SEPLAN      =  Secretaria de Planejamento (State Secretariat for Planning)
SES         -  Secretaria de Saude (State Secretariat for health)
SIMA        =  Servico de Informacao Agricola (Agricultural Information Service)
STE         =  Secretaria de Transportes, Communicacoes e Energia (State
Secretariat for Transport, Communications and Energy)
SUCAM       =  Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica (National Super-
intendency of Public Health Campaigns)
SUDENE      =  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste gortheast Development
Superintendency)
TU          =  Unidade Tecnica do POLONORDESTE (Technical Unit for Coordination
of POLONORDESTE - Projects in Pernambuco)
UFPe        =  Universidade E'ederal de Pernambuco (Federal University of Pernambuco)
UNO         =  Uniao Nordestina de Assistencia as Pequenas Organizacoes (Northeast
Union for Assistance to Small Enterprises)
UPEA        =  Unidade d, Pesquisa Agricola (Experimental Research Unit of the
Agricultural Research Company, IPA-PE)



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..............................                 1
The Sector in the Economy ............................                1
Government Agricultural Policies .....................                1
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil ......................                2
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ....           ......     3
II.   THE STATE OF PERNAMBUCO AND THE PROJECT AREA ... ......                3
The State ............................................                3
The Project Area .....................................                4
III.   THE EXECUTING AGENCIES ...................       ............          9
State Framework for Executing the POLONORDESTE Program                9
Institutions Engaged in Rural Development in the
Project Area .........         ..............................       9
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................                10
A.   Origin ..........................................               10
B.   Brief Description ...............................               10
C.   Detailed Features  ...............................              12
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ........... .. .............              25
Cost Estimates .......................................               25
Financing ............................................               26
Procurement ..........................................               28
Disbursements ........................................               28
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October 1978
composed of Messrs. E. Los, J. Coates, Y. Tencalla, W. Matthey and
Ms. C. Carr (Bank), and Messrs. N. Rask, T. Cox, J. Mora, E. Calderon,
Z. Kowalski and J. Sheehy (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................    29
Organization and Management .....           ......................    29
Project Management Unit .............      ..     ................    29
Operating Agreements and Procedures ......... ..........    30
Implementation Schedule .............      ..     ................    30
Project Monitoring        ..................    ..................    31
Project Evaluation ................      ..     ..................    31
Accounts and Auditing .................................    32
VII.    PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES .32
Production ........         ....................................    32
Demand          ................................................    34
Marketing and Prices ...... .................................    36
Non-Farm Enterprise Production and Marketing ..........    37
VIII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..... ...................................    38
Illustrative Farm Types .............      ..       ........        38
On-farm Operations ..................             ..........        38
Non-farm Activities ...............     ..      ..................    39
Producer Income .......................................    39
IX.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...................    40
Economic Rate of Return ......          .........................    40
Employment            ............................................    43
Fiscal Impact .........................................    43
Environmental Impact .        . ..................    .             44
Project Risks            .........................................    44
X.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................    45
ANNEXES
1.   Improved Road Characteristics
2.   Annual Phasing of Project Costs
3.   Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements and Disbursements
against Statements of Expenditures
4.   List of Executing Agencies
5.   Organization Chart of the Project
Management Unit
6.    Implementation Schedule
7.   Monitoring of Project Impact
8.   Agricultural Development
Table: 1. Summary of Illustrative Farm Models



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES (Continued)
9.   Financial Analysis of Illustrative Farm Models
Tables:  1.  Input and output coefficients per hectare
2. Farm Model 6, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and
Cash Flow Projections
3. Farm Model 11, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and
Cash Flow Projections
4. Farm Model 19, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and
Cash Flow Projections
5. Estimated Farm Income of Project Participants
6. Financial Rates of Return for Project Farm Models
10.   Economic Analysis of Small Non-Farm Enterprises
Tables:  1.  Condensed Financial Position of Selected
Small Non-Farm Enterprises
2. Indicative Rate of Return Calculation for
Small Non-Farm Enterprise Component
11.   Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis
Table:   1.  Economic Analysis of Agricultural Activities
Under the Project and Economic Analysis of
the Total Project
12.   Related Documents Available in Project File
MAPS
Project Area (IBRD 14004)
Climate      (IBRD 14005)






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the Economy
1.01      Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be an important
sector in the economy. The national agricultural work force numbers
12.8 million, or 39.5% of the economically active2population, and 43.1 million
ha (out of a national territory of 8.5 million km ) are in agricultural use.
About 56% of agricultural merchandise exports account for more than 50% of the
country's export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee
and orange juice, the largest producer of cane sugar, and the third largest
producer of soybeans. It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts, cocoa,
castor oil and sisal. In 1976, the value of Brazil's exported agricultural
products was the third highest in the world.
1.02      The most important products for the domestic market include cassava,
maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy
products, poultry, beef and pork; coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton and cocoa
are also important. With the exception of wheat, Brazil is largely self-
sufficient in basic food production, although some staples such as beans are
imported seasonally. More than half of the wheat consumed in Brazil is still
imported.
1.03      From 1967 to 1974, the agricultural sector performed well in meeting
domestic demand for food and fibers as well as in supplying a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at an annual average of 5.7% despite
adverse weather conditions in three of the seven years. Farm output increased
4.2% over 1975/76, an increase due more to productivity gains with livestock
(12.2%) than with crops, where a gain of 9% is reduced to 0.4% if the negative
effects of the reduced coffee crop are included. Until 1977, the value of
agricultural output increased steadily, more as a result of an expansion of
production area than of improved productivity. Despite increased attention to
productivity and increasing market integration, subsistence and semi-commercial
production and use of rudimentary technologies continue to be widespread,
particularly in the Northeast, North and Center-West. Because of the large
rural population (para 1.05), the agricultural sector remains a substantial
source of labor for the other sectors of the economy.
Government Agricultural Policies
1.04      The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at more efficient exploitation of the country's
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms.



This goal reflects the Government's intention to encourage production of an
increasing share of Brazil's growing domestic requirements for food and fibers
as well as to increase agricultural exports. In addition the Government has
acknowledged the gravity of the country's income distribution problems.
Important measures to increase agricultural output have included: (a) utili-
zation of substantial public resources to incorporate new areas into production;
(b) significant expansion in the supply of agricultural credit, most of it at
subsidized rates; (c) strengthening of research and extension services; and
(d) special regional programs, such as the Development Program for Integrated
Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), that focus on poorer regions and smaller
scale farmers.
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil
1.05      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about
35 million persons, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas. The population is
growing at a net rate of 800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region has
a semi-arid climate with periodic serious droughts and extensive areas of poor
soils. Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region, with
40% of the agriculturally employed population of Brazil usually accounting for
20% of Brazil's agricultural production and a major share of the national
production of cocoa, cotton, manioc, beans and sugar. In 1977, about 30% of
the area harvested in Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout the region, most
food and industrial crops are produced by small farmers. Their technology is
unsophisticated and yields are poor. The difficulties facing them include,
lack of credit for working capital or investment, limited agricultural
extension services, market isolation and weak linkages with the regional
economy, insecurity of land titles and, in some areas, a difficult physical
environment. These problems are compounded by a highly skewed pattern of land
ownership. For instance less than 1% of the total number of farms establish-
ments accounts for 40% of the area, whereas in some areas up to 80% of the
rural labor force owns no land at all. Among Northeastern states, the pro-
portion of land holders who own less than 10 ha ranges from 49% in Ceara to
87.6% in Maranhao.
1.06      Various Government programs have been directed at speeding economic
development in the Northeast. The Government operates a special agency, the
Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE), and a special development bank
for the Northeast, the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil. Substantial fiscal
and monetary incentives have been made available over the past two decades for
both industry and agriculture. Programs to generate jobs in the industrial
sector have not however kept pace with population increases, and continuous
immigration from rural to urban areas has been coupled with considerable
movement to the more industrialized Center-South and Center-West of Brazil.
Past Government programs directed to the rural population of the Northeast have
concentrated on public works, with substantial efforts in drought-prone areas
to develop dams and ponds. The administration has however also started to
strengthen the institutions offering the support services required to develop
more productive farmings sytems, particularly under the POLONORDESTE program
(in which the Bank is involved).



- 3 -
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 15 loans, totalling US$543.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$60.5 million, for livestock development; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; one for
US$40 million for agricultural research; one, for US$100 million, to improve
agriculture extension services; and eight, totalling US$187.7 million, for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, seven of which
are located in the Northeast. Additional agricultural and rural development
projects and a rural education project, all in the Northeast, are under
consideration for possible future Bank financing. Completion reports for
three projects have been issued: the grain storage and the two livestock
development projects.
II. THE STATE OF PERNAMBUCO AND THE PROJECT AREA
The State
2.01      Location and Natural Features.  Pernambuco is one of the 2central
states of the nine in Northeast Brazil. With an area of 98,300 km (6% of the
Northeast), it is only 200 km wide, but stretches 700 km inland, across the
three ecological areas characteristic of the Northeast: a humid coastal zone
(Zona da Mata) 50 to 80 km wide, with an annual rainfall of over 1,200 mm; an
intermediate area (Agreste) with a transitional climate and a 500 to 1,200 mm
annual rainfall, and the arid interior (Sertao) with a rainfall below 600
mm per annum. The coastal zone, covering 17% of the state, is the most populated
(52% of the State's total) and includes the capital, Recife. The Agreste covers
20% of the State and contains 29% of the State's population, and the Sertao,
with 63% of the total area, contains only 19% of the population. About 46% of
the State population of 5.85 million (1975) is rural.
2.02      Social and Economic Conditions.  Recife has been one of the leading
cities in the Northeast since colonial times and is a major commercial, indus-
trial and administrative center for the region. Since the first European
settlers arrived, sugarcane grown in the humid coastal zone has dominated the
agricultural sector, and the politics and economics of sugarcane cultivation
have heavily influenced the State's development. Agriculture still plays a
fundamental role and it has maintained a constant share of the value of goods
and services produced in the State (25%). Industry contributes around 20%,
and the service industry with 55% has the highest share for this sector in
the Northeast, providing employment for around 50% of the economically active
population in the State. Labor absorption in agriculture has been low, with
new job offers growing at 0.9%/annum, compared to 2.4% for industry and 3.6%
for services. This, combined with the availablility of better social services
in the urban centers, has led to a continuous migration to the cities. The
urban population of the State grew between 1960 and 1970 at 4.2% per annum,
while the rural population remained virtually constant. Growth in the agri-
cultural sector has been weak (3.3%/annum between 1947-68). By 1972, some
75% of the 5 million cultivable hectares had been absorbed into production.



- 4 -
Productivity is low, and the average farm size of 19 ha/farm is among the
smallest in the Northeast. Pernambuco is among the top six states in Brazil
in the production of sugar, tomatoes, onions, perennial cotton, bananas,
pineapple and manioc. The State's cattle herd is around 1.5 million head,
and there is another 2.1 million head of other livestock. The State is
self-sufficient in sugar, beans and manioc, but is still an importer of corn,
fruits, vegetables and powdered milk.
2.03      Development Strategy.  Growth of output for the State between 1959-69
was about 6.5% per annum. The current government established an annual target
of 9% per annum in its five year plan 1975-79, with an increase in the mining
and manufacturing share of output from 17% (1970) to 24% (1979) and an improve-
ment in the growth of new employment opportunities from 1.4% (1970) to 2.3%
per annum (1979). Means to this end include: (a) in industry, completion of
an industrial complex south of Recife; establishment of industrial districts,
development of agro-industries and expansion and modernization of traditional,
and small-scale enterprises; (b) in agriculture, establishment of the institu-
tional framework for the implementation of integrated rural development
projects; diversification of production and improvement of productivity;
and development of a Capibaribe river control plan, which would serve agri-
culture as well as prevent the flooding of Recife; and (c) in the service
sector, development of tourism, and improvement of transportaion, energy and
water supply and social services.
The Project Area
2.04      Location and Natural Features.  The 10,823 km  project area, with a
population estimated currently at about 1 million (61% rural), includes 31
municipalities.  Centered at Caruaru, 8 0S and 36 0W, the largest city in the
Agreste, the project area extends 80 km north-south and 150 km east-west between
the semi-arid Sertao in the west and the humid Zona da Mata in the east. It
borders on the State of Paraiba in the north and the Agreste Meridional Project
of POLONORDESTE in the south. The topography ranges from the hilly more humid
areas in the east, with an altitude of 100 to 300 m, through the flat central
plains with lower rainfall to the more mountainous west with altitudes of 600
to 800 m.
2.05      The mean annual rainfall decreases from 1,100 mm in the east to 500
to 700 mm in the west. However, the pattern is discontinuous, with enclaves
of high rainfall near escarpments and mountain ridges and low rainfall in the
plains around Caruaru. The precipitation is concentrated between March and
August, with a high annual variability. Mean temperatures range from 160 to
32 C, and the relative humidity is low, reaching only 80% in the rainy season.
Soils are of medium fertility but often with good physical structure. Ground
water resources are limited, costly to exploit and high in salt content. On
the basis of these ecological conditions, agricultural development is very
localized and varies within short distances. For project planning and imple-
mentation (IBRD Map No. 14005), three sub-areas were delineated, with the
following characteristics:



-5-
Subareas
Units    I (East)  II (Center)  III (West)  Project-Area
Area                      km          1,077       6,171          3,575        10,823
Population (1970)                2 130,118    500,922          191,143       822,183
Population density   persons/km         121          81             53            76
Municipalities                            5          17              9            31
Rural population           %             72          58             64            61
Altitude range         meters      100-300    100-800          600-800       100-800
Rainfall range         mm/annum   800-1,100  400-1,000        500-800       400-1,100
Dry season             weeks       11-15        10-25          13-18          10-25
Land not suitable        %              9           19             24            20
for exploitation
2.06      Socio-economic Conditions.  The population of the project area in
1970 was 822,183 (6% of the State's population) a2d was estimated at2l million
in 1978. The average populatio2 density of 76/km varies from 25/km in the
dry areas in the west to 300/km in the most populous eastern municipality.
The overall population growth in the area is about 2.5% per annum (2.5% for
the State), indicating a relatively rapid emigration to metropolitan areas. The
urban population increased from 29% (1960) to 39% (1970) of the total population,
and the seven cities in the area with over 20,000 inhabitants are rapidly
growing. The population is young with 44% under 15 years of age. The average
family composition is similar to that found in other Northeastern States:
parents, three to four children, and one dependent for every three families.
2.07      Agriculture is the chief economic activity of the area and accounts
for 68.2% of the economically active population. Within the project area there
are marked differences in occupations and living conditions, due to the rapid
development of urban centers and small-scale industries, as shown below:
Percentage of Economic
Active Population                                             Project   State of
Working in:           I (East)  II (Center)   III (West)    Area    Pernambuco
Agriculture               81.4         41.9           67.9        68.2        50.8
Industry                 5.1          9.6             8.4        8.6        13.4
Service sector          13.5         48.5           23.7        23.2        35.8
The central subarea is generally more developed.  Its social indicators such
as percentage of houses with electricity (24.4%), of houses with water (19.8%);
number of motor vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants (18.8) and of television sets
per 1,000 inhabitants (11) are almost double those of the other tw ? subareas.
The road network is also more intensive there, with about 600 m/km against
200 m/km2 elsewhere.
2.08      Precise data on income are unavailable.  The average per capita
income in the industry and service sectors in the urban centers of the state
is approaching the US$400 per annum level, and in agriculture, covering two



- 6 -
thirds of the population, US$222 per annum (1970). 1/ Calculations for agri-
cultural models in the project area indicate that for most of the small
farmers the per capita income level is still below US$200 per annum. Income
of farmers in the dairy business or with 10 to 50 ha of land, rises to the
US$250 per capita level, which is still less than the relative poverty level
income of US$330 in 1978.
2.09      Land Tenure.  The small and medium farmers produce most of the
food products, while the big farmers concentrate on cattle. Land distribu-
tion is skewed and in the project area about 92% of the farmers cultivate
37% of the farm area. About 45% of the farmers have less than 5 ha. The
following table summarizes the size distribution of all farms in the project
area:
Subareas
Project
I (East)   II (Center)   III (West)    Area
Number of Farms
Number of farms owned           6,620         29,060         12,320       48,000
Non-owner farms /a              3,440         15,600         10,900       30,000
% Farms by Farm Size /b
Less than 5 ha                   47.3          47.9           37.1         45.1
6-10 ha                    23.7          19.4           20.5        20.3
11-50 ha                    25.1         26.7            24.2        25.7
above 50 ha                  5.7           7.7           11.2          8.2
% Farm Area by Farm Size /b
Less than 5 ha                    6.8           5.9            3.6          5.2
6-10 ha                     8.7           6.9            5.3          6.6
11-50 ha                    25.1          26.7           24.2         25.7
above 50 ha                 59.4          60.5           66.9         62.5
/a   Includes renters and sharecroppers, but not landless rural labor.
/b   Data for owner-operated farms only.  Comparable data for non-owner
operations are not available. However, it is estimated that non-owner
operations are mostly below 10 ha. This would reduce the percentage of
farmers with more than 50 ha to about 5%.
Source: CEPA-PE calculation from IBGE (1970) and INCRA (1972) data.
2.10      Agriculture.  Relative to its size or population (11 and 16% respec-
tively of Pernambuco), the project area accounts for a disproportionately high
share of the state's production of the traditional food crops, fruits, vegetables
and milk. About 80% of the project area, or 800,000 ha, are cultivatable land,
with 1% in permanent crops, 36% in temporary crops, and 63% in pasture.
1/   Source:  "A Economia de Pernambuco", UFPe, 1975.



Cotton, beans, maize and manioc are grown in mixed cropping systems, and cover
in total an area of about 280,000 ha (37% of the cultivated and 88% of the
crop land). Cultivation of vegetables (3,100 ha) and fruits (7,500 ha) is
steadily expanding. Tree crops (7,500 ha) and industrial crops (1,800 ha) are
relatively stable. All farmers, including the cattle farmers, grow some or
all of the basic food crops, but generally the big farmers concentrate on beef
and dairy cattle and the farmers with less than 50 ha produce the bulk of the
food crops for sale to the urban centers. The cropping systems are adapted
to the various ecosystems in the project area. As a result various municipal-
ities are characterized by cultivation of special crops, such as carrots in
Brejo da Madre de Deus (Mother of God Bluff), and pineapple in Riacho das
Almas (Soul Creek). Estimated project area production in 1975 was as follows:
Value                    % Pernambuco
Crop                    Units        US$ '000       Quantity      production
Manioc (root)          '000 tons         15.4          352,8           22,4
Beans                  '000 tons          8.0           23,4           18,4
Maize                  '000 tons          7.5           74,7           21,2
Tomatoes              '000 tons           4.1           59,0           59,2
Cotton (herbaceous)  '000 tons            3.2            9,7           33,1
Pineapple             million fruit       8.6           14,4           55,3
Bananas               million fruit       3.1            5,4           22,1
Milk                  million litres   14.4             65,4           40,6
2.11      Industry.  The project area also has a disproportionate share of the
State's industrial enterprises.  The share of the value of industrial production
is low, however, indicating that industries in the project area are small:
Project Area
in % of
Project Area    Pernambuco    Pernambuco
Number of registered industrial
enterprises                              1,729           5,913             29
Number of personnel engaged by
these enterprises                        8,836          89,258             10
Number of employees per enterprise           5.1            15.1              34
Value of industrial products
(Cr$ million)                              144           2,646              5
Added value (Cr$ million)                     50           1,153               4
Source: Pernambuco Statistical Year Book. 1975.



- 8 -
These figures do not reflect the actual number of people engaged in industry,
because there are many unregistered activities (such as food processing house
industries and artesan works). A regional artesan center has been developed
in Caruaru, and Santa Cruz de Capibaribe has a center for the production of
low-cost clothing. In addition there is a small milk factory in Sanharo and
various large fruit and vegetable processing plants in Pesqueira and Belo
Jardim.
2.12      Physical Infrastructure.  The project area is well served by 304 km
of national highways and 768 km of State roads. Feeding into this primary
road system are 3,900 km of mostly poorly maintained municipal roads. Mainte-
nance of State roads is performed by the State highway department, which is
expected to receive assistance in improving road maintenance under a proposed
Bank assisted program starting in 1980. Municipal centers and small rural
communities are directly served by the State electricity company (CELPE) and
isolated rural properties in the project area are served through seven rural
electrification cooperatives. In 1970 about 20% of all houses had electricity
and in 1977 only about 1.6% of the rural properties were served. Most of the
municipal centers are served by the State water and sanitation company with
water from tubewells or public dams. Of the roughly 200 rural villages and
communities, only 10 have simple water supply systems. In 1970 about 18% of
all houses in the area received water from public systems, private wells or
nearby springs. Twenty-eight public dams are in operation, of which five
provide water for agricultural purposes. Recently the State integrated
agricultural services company started to assist farmers with the construction
of small dams.
2.13      Agricultural Services.  Agricultural extension services are credit-
oriented and favor larger farmers, as revealed in the fact that during the
period 1973-77, over 50% of rural credit granted was for livestock (generally
raised on large and medium scale farms) and 50% went in large loans to 3% of
the borrowers. Only when the POLONORDESTE project started, in April 1977, did
the State agricultural extension service establish local agencies in 25 of the
31 municipalities. The State operated storage system is generally serving
larger farmers, middlemen, feed factories and sugar producers. The State
provides input-supply and mechanization services, competing with the private
and cooperative sector. Private intermediaries are the main link between
farmers and markets. Agricultural credit is channeled principally through
the 13 agencies of the Banco do Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil.
2.14      Social Services.  Health and education services, although widely
extended in recent years, are still weak and sometimes ineffective. Only 44%
of the school-age children attend school. About 40% of the population over
14 years is literate. Infant mortality is high (200-250 per thousand), and
malnutrition is wide-spread, reaching about 60% of the pre-school age children.
There are many contagious diseases, due to poor hygienic conditions and water
supply systems. Only one city, Caruaru, has a solid waste disposal system.
Schistosomiasis is present in 10 (out of 31) municipalities, five of which
show an incidence of between 10 and 40%. Chagas (South American trypanosomiasis)
also occurs. There are 29 hospitals, 36 health centers and 60 rural health
posts. The area has one to two beds per 1,000 inhabitants, with an occupancy
rate of only 63%. The medical coverage of the population is estimated at 40%,
the dental care coverage at 2% and the immunization rate at 10%.



- 9 -
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
State Framework for Executing the POLONORDESTE Program
3.01      The POLONORDESTE programs in Pernambuco are coordinated by a
Management Council (Conselho Diretor) created in October 1975 through State
Decree No.3760. The Council is chaired by the State Secretary of Planning.
Other members are the State Secretaries of Agriculture; Industry and Commerce;
Transport, Energy and Communications; Sanitation, Housing and Works; Education
and Culture; and Health. Representatives from the Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil and the Bank of Brazil also participate. The Council is responsible
for: preparing general directives for the POLONORDESTE Programs in .
Pernambuco; defining overall priorities and strategy; ensuring adequate
participation in the programs by executing agencies; approving the annual
operating plans for specific projects; reviewing the quartqrly executing
reports of the projects; coordinating and mediating between executing agencies;
and resolving problems affecting project implementation.
3.02      Within the State Secretariat of Planning, the Technical Unit for
Coordination (TU), also created in 1975, performs the functions of the
Secretariat of the Council, and has responsibility for the day-to-day manage-
ment and supervision of the four POLONORDESTE projects currently being imple-
mented. The TU is managed by a General Coordinator who is directly responsible
to the Secretary of Planning and who approves the annual operating plan and the
progress reports of the projects, before they are sent for final approval to
the Council. Each of the four projects has a project manager, supervised by
the Coordinator. Besides this, the TU has a management team of 10 plbofessionals
and 10 administrative staff members to assist the executing agencies when
necessary in monitoring the projects and preparing the annual operating plans
and progress reports.
Institutions Engaged in Rural Development in the Project Area
3.03      The chief agencies involved in rural development in the project area
are: the Government-owned Bank of Brazil (BB), the Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil (BNB) and the State Bank of Pernambuco (BANDEPE); the State Rural
Extension Company (EMATER-PE); the State Agricultural Research Institute (IPA-PE);
the Integrated Agricultural Services Company (CISAGRO); the State Water Supply
and Sanitation Company (COMPESA)-and the Secretariat for Transport, Energy
and Communications, through its State Highway Department (DER-PE); Agriculture,
through its Department of Plant Production (DPV); Education (SEC) and Health (SES),
including the Health Foundation Amaury de Medeiros (FUSAM), and, finally, the
Northeast Union for Assistance to Small Enterprises (UNO). Further support comes
from the wide range of agencies, with some involvement in rural development such
as the State Storage Company (CAGEP), the Program for the Extension of Health
and Sanitation Activities (PIASS), and the cooperative organizations. The
effectiveness of many of these agencies has been hampered by limited resources,
administrative constraints and relatively little experience in the field.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
4.01      The POLONORDESTE program, established to raise productivity and
incomes, broaden employment opportunities, and generally improve living
conditions of small farmers in the Northeast was initiated in Pernambuco in
1976.  Four rural development2projects are currently under implementation,
covering an area of 25,300 km and a population of about 2 million people.
The State Government gives high priority to the development of the Agreste and
has two rural development projects there. It is a region with reasonably good
agricultural development potential and one which plays a complementary role
in the development of the coastal lands by supplying the Recife metropolitan
area with food and the sugar belt with seasonal labor.
4.02       The original Agreste Setentrional Rural Development project was
prepared early in 1976 and initiated early in 1977. Due to a variety of
problems implementation was slow. In view of the importance of the area, the
State Government requested Bank participation in project preparation and
financing in November 1977. The Bank expressed willingness to consider such
participation, provided that the original project would be reformulated for
Bank financing, which was agreed. The original proposal, devoid of a unifying
organic framework, consisted of a series of isolated programs for small-
and medium-sized farms of up to 100 ha in size, scattered across the project
area. The current proposal has a broader and more integrated base and would
build on the results already achieved in the original project.
B. Brief Description
4.03      The proposed project aims to:
(a) increase production and productivity in agriculture and small
non-farm enterprises by focussing on a target group of low income
producers in the 31 municipalities of the project area;
(b) increase rural per capita income levels and rural employment
opportunities, improve income distribution, and alleviate
rural-urban migration;
(c) raise living standards by improving social and physical
infrastructure; and
(d) improve the State-wide effectiveness of institutions partici-
pating in the project.



- 11 -
4.04      The proposed project would seek to achieve its objectives by:
(a)  strengthening agricultural extension, agricultural research,
seed supply, water storage and mechanization services; and
initiating land tenure studies;
(b)  providing credit to 15,540 small farmers with less than 50 ha
of land, living on or near their farms and obtaining more than
50% of their family income from agricultural activities;
(c)  improving input supply, storage and marketing services and
providing assistance to eight agricultural cooperative
societies;
(d)  providing technical assistance and training to 2,700 small
non-farm enterprises, each of which would have less than 10
employees, fixed assets below 200 MVR 1/ (US$12,000), and an
owner-income under 8 MVR per month (US$480);
(e)  upgrading of about 950 km of municipal roads;
(f)  expanding and improving educational and health services,
with emphasis on training and including the construction
and upgrading of various health centers, village water supply
systems, sanitary installations and schools; and
(g)  strengthening project management, including monitoring and
evaluation.
4.05      Because of the size of the project area, the number and uneven
distribution of the small farmers, and the weakness of the institutions
which serve them, the project would concentrate on 63 areas, selected
because they exhibit favorable development conditions and contain at
least 150 potential small farmer beneficiaries. The distribution of
expected direct farmer beneficiaries in the project area by farm size is
given in the following table.
1/   The MVR (maior valor de referencia), established in 1975, is a standard
unit of value used in various financial transactions. Originally based
on the minimum wage, it is now adjusted each May by the cumulative index
of monetary correction for the previous 12 months. One MVR currently
equals about Cr$ 1,150 or US$60.



- 12 -
______    ____  Subareas
I (East)       II (Center)       III (West)   Project Area
Number    %    Number       %     Number    %   Number       %
Landless farmers       438    18       690       7      276       7   1,404      9
Farmers with:
0- 2 ha            168     7    1,101       12      299       8   1,568    10
2.1-55 ha            818    34    3,002       33    1,097      28   4,917    32
5.1-10 ha            529    22    1,902       21      850      22   3,281    21
10.1-50 ha           462    19    2,535        27    1,373      35   4,370    28
Total          2,415   100    9,230       100    3,895    100  15,540   100
4.06      The credit, extension, seed supply and agricultural research components
would primarily benefit the target group of 15,540 small farmer beneficiaries;
the broader based agricultural services, social and physical infrastructure
and project management would reach a wider group of some 40,000 farm families,
living in the 63 concentration areas where project investments are focussed.
Support services for small enterprise development would benefit primarily the
2,700 enterprises receiving direct assistance and training. The project would
benefit many more persons than those mentioned above, and would have a positive
effect on the living standards of most of the one million people living in the
project area.
C. Detailed Features
Credit
4.07      Use by small farmers of institutionalized credit would be expanded
significantly. The component would include:
(a)  incremental short-term credit (custeio) for annual crops and
the establishment of two-year crops; and
(b)  medium- and long-term credit to establish permanent crops,
especially fruit trees, to make other permanent on-farm improve-
ments such as the addition of on-farm storage installations,
reservoirs and stables, and for livestock development, including
pasture improvement and livestock purchases. Livestock purchases
would be financed only as an integral component of a crop and
livestock plan.
4.08      Project credit would be channeled to farmers through the 13 branches
of BB and BNB located in or near the project area. Project credit terms and
conditions would be those established by Government for the POLONORDESTE
program, namely, interest to the farmer at 10%, unindexed for both investment
and seasonal credit (with the exception of fertilizer credit, which is non-
interest bearing), with repayment terms for investment credit of up to 12 years,



- 13 -
including a grace period of up to six years. The repayment of seasonal
credit would depend on the production cycle of the crop produced. The
Central Bank would normally maintain credit lines with the participating
banks to make available the necessary funds to cover 100% of subloan value.
These banks would be required to repay the Central Bank in line with repayment
of subloans made, but retaining a 5% spread. Where lending is channelled
through cooperatives, the cooperative would receive 2%, leaving the bank with 3%.
4.09      Given Brazil's inflation rate of 42% over the past three years, the
interest rates adopted by the Government for POLONORDESTE projects are negative
in real terms. Interest rates were marginally increased in early 1978 (from
7% to 10% for smaller loans and from 12% to 14% for larger loans), but a
considerable subsidy remains. The Government, at least for the time being, is
reluctant to reduce the subsidy further for small farmer programs such as
POLONORDESTE. Since the beneficiaries of the proposed project are mainly in
the lower income classes, and since the possibility of misallocations of
resources would be maintained at a minimum through the proposed supervision
from the project extension and monitoring activities, the Bank should be
prepared to acquiesce to the Government's position.
4.10      Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the Government
that it would maintain existing agreements with the participating banks, BB
and BNB, to ensure their continued collaboration in the execution of the
credit component, and that additional participating banks could only be
included after approval by the Bank ; that project credit would be extended
to the small-scale farmers on POLONORDESTE terms and conditions, and that
the Bank would be promptly informed of changes in such POLONORDESTE lending
terms and conditions. Also, to help insure that the project credit is made
available to as large a number of farmers as possible and that the focus on
smaller scale operations is achieved, assurances were obtained that Bank
disbursements would be limited to subloans to farmers whose total debt
(investment and working capital) outstanding was under 100 MVR 1/ (or about
US$6,000). No project subloans would be made for farm operations requiring
financing of more than 100 MVR. Family labor would be financed up to 50% of
imputed value, especially for the smallest farmers, whose cash position
during the year could be severely restricted, especially during the first
few years of development, as family labor is shifted into on-farm employment.
With respect to seasonal crop production credit, since repayment of these
short-term subloans would, on average, occur in up to one year, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would make these funds
available each subsequent year for reapplication under the project credit
component. Bank disbursements for seasonal crop credit in POLONORDESTE
fiscal year 1979, (April 1, 1979-March 31, 1980) would begin only after
aggregate project working capital credit exceeded the comparable amount
extended under POLONORDESTE in the project area in fiscal 1978. In each
following year, disbursements for seasonal crop credit would be made only
against credit in excess of the amount extended under the project during the
previous year. Regarding the use of Bank financed agricultural investment
credit, assurances were obtained at negotiations from State Government that
financing for livestock purchases would only be provided as part of an
integrated crop and livestock development plan, to be executed by the small
farmer.
1/   See Note 1/, page 11.



- 14 -
Production Support Services
4.11      Agricultural Extension.  The proposed project would finance:  (a)
vehicles and equipment of an expanded extension system; (b) salaries during
their first four years of employment and training expenses of the incremental
extension staff, including 25 extensionists only recently employed under the
the original Agreste Setentrional POLONORDESTE Project (para 4.02) who would
work full-time for the proposed project; (c) incremental operating costs
(materials, supplies, rent) during the project period; (d) costs of pre- and
in-service training of extensionists and of short course training of farmers;
and (e) consultant services.
4.12      After the four POLONORDESTE projects had started in Pernambuco,
EMATER-PE reorganized to cope with the rapidly increasing task. EMATER-PE's
approach to agricultural extension reflects experience gained in other rural
development projects in the Northeast of Brazil, and operating methods
developed under the Bank-financed project to assist EMBRATER, the Brazilian
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company. It currently operates on a
decentralized basis in the proposed project area through two regional offices
in Caruaru, and Surubim, and a third one will be established in Pesqueira. The
number of local offices has already been expanded from six to 25 and would be
further increased to 31 under the proposed project. The project would result
in the expansion of the regional technical specialists from nine to 16, the local
extension field staff from 34 to 165, and the staff of social extensionists
from six to 40. A group approach to extension would be developed, as well as
extended use of mass media, such as radio, portable loudspeakers, and printed
leaflets. It would start with periodic visits by middle level technicians to
groups of 10 to 20 farmers, to be followed up by meetings at the district
level to inform larger groups on general topics such as input availability,
product prices and outlets, credit procedures, and community matters and by
field days to demonstrate field results obtained by experiments and by pro-
gressive farmers. Through these contacts, extensionists would promote adoption
of improved production techniques. The extensionists would be backed by
subject matter specialists from the regional offices in the project area and
the central office in Recife. They would be assisted by natural leaders
emerging from the farmer groups who would receive special training from
EMATER-PE. To increase the extensionists' effectiveness, EMATER-PE would
focus on 63 priority areas (out of roughly 200 rural communities in the
project area) with the highest concentration of small farmers and the best
development prospects (para 4.05).
4.13      By concentrating its efforts in these areas, containing about
35,000 farmers and about 5,000 landless farmers, EMATER-PE would attain at
full project development a coverage of about 250 small farmers per extensionist.
Of these, it is estimated that about 40% would adopt new techniques and need
credit. The project would assist some 15,540 new farmers with credit, resulting
in a coverage of 100 credit receiving farmers per extensionist in the fifth
year of the project. To reach this coverage, it is assumed that farmers would
graduate within two or three years into direct bank clients, requiring only
limited assistance and supervision from the extension service. EMATER-PE
would be the executing agent for the agricultural and social extension compo-
nent, as well as the day-to-day coordinator for the cooperative assistance and



- 15 -
marketing components (paras 4.21 and 4.23). EMATER-PE has prepared a
detailed staff-expansion and training plan for the first year of project
implementation (April 1, 1979 - March 31, 1980). The project would provide
for consultant services during the first two years of the project and
assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that it would
engage the services of consultants by December 31, 1979, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.14      Agricultural Research.  The proposed component, an adaptive research
and experimentation effort, would include the staffing, equipping and training
of an eight man research team, with support staff, which would carry out a
research program at farm-level at various locations and farm types in the
project area, establishing a framework to incorporate extensionists and farmers
into the research program. The project costs to be financed include vehicles,
equipment, and materials for research purposes; and incremental personnel and
operating costs during the five year project period.
4.15      Agricultural research in the State of Pernambuco is carried out by
IPA-PE an affiliate of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA).
IPA-PE operates through decentralized Experimental Research Units (UPEA) which
in turn run several experimental stations. The station in Caruaru is in charge
of research into crops typical of the Agreste Region, including cotton, coffee,
maize, beans, carrots, tomatoes and dairy cattle, as well as soil conservation.
However, the research activities are performed without adequate linkage with
the extension service and the farmers. Under EMBRAPA guidance, IPA-PE would
be responsible for component execution. Although there is a general plan for
about 34 annual experiments, covering seven crops, IPA-PE would prepare a
detailed program for each year in consultation with EMATER-PE, the Project
Management Unit and the Bank. EMATER-PE would participate in all facets of
the experimentation program, with heaviest involvement in the demonstration
and dissemination of research results and improved technologies, and of inform-
ing researchers of the acceptance of these new techniques among farmers.
Farmers themselves would be involved in the actual execution of some of the
research projects, as well as providing feedback on the new techniques. The
program for the first year has been prepared and focusses on experiments
within intercropping farming systems in 13 municipalities, as a first step
in a long range research program.
4.16      Seed Supply.  The project component aims to coordinate seed produc-
tion, demand and distribution, and to set up a mechanism to guarantee suffi-
cient funds to finance the seed production contracts. The proposed component
would include staffing, training, equipment and incremental costs needed to
adjust production to the project generated increase in demand, to upgrade the
four nurseries in the project area and to improve seed distribution. The
project would provide financing for small trucks, equipment, materials and
incremental personnel and operating costs during the five year project period.
4.17      DPV is in charge of the production of certified seeds for cotton,
maize and beans and of planting materials for fruit crops, and would be the
executing agent for the seed supply component. The private sector provides



- 16 -
adequate quantities of good quality vegetable seeds. DPV operates a 1,200 ha
irrigated farm to produce basic seeds from the genetic seeds, and then uses
the basic seeds to produce improved or certified seeds in five production
centers. It also uses farmers in the project area to produce the balance of
required certified seeds under contract. During harvest time DPV is committed
to pay for and store all contracted seed production.  Farmers' requirements
for improved seeds and planting materials are frequently not met, due to the
lack of funds necessary to buy contracted production from the multiplying
farms at harvest time. To improve this situation, the State recently estab-
lished a special fund to finance seed production and improve the infrastructure
of seed supply.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the State
Government that a reserve sufficient to finance the annually contracted
seed-production would be maintained in this fund. This reserve would be
established yearly by Government in consultation with the Secretaries of
Planning, Finance and Agriculture, based on the annual production plan of DPV
and the demand-projections prepared by EMATER-PE. Assurances were also be
obtained from State Government that DPV's distribution activities would serve
the needs of the project beneficiaries with priority.
4.18      Water Conservation.  The project area is characterized by an irregular
and mostly low rainfall. In addition, groundwater of adequate quality and
quantity is difficult to find and costly to exploit. The situation results in
social hardship and difficult to measure risks in agricultural production.
Various measures to counteract these climatic disadvantages have been proposed
or initiated. Credit has been made available to construct house-tanks for rain-
water collection and in recent yearS 20 public dams of various capacities,
ranging from 10,000 to 15 million m have been constructed. The problems
encountered are salinization, sedimentation, contamination, leakage and inade-
quate design due to the lack of information of local conditions. Some dams
never functioned and most supply only water for human consumption. Where they
are used for agricultural purposes, there are no structured water-user charges.
In addition to the public dams, there are numerous small private on-farm dams,
mostly providing water for animals. Private entities and CISAGRO have con-
structed in recent years about 150 such dams with capacities varying between
100 and 5,000 m . The major problems in these cases are a lack of local studies,
unreliable tractor services and inadequate capacity.
4.19      In order to improve the availability of water for human consumption
and for agricultural purposes, the project would provide for: (a) the study
and analysis of rainfall patterns in the proposed area, and of the available
climatological and hydrological data and the preparation of a data base for each
municipality; (b) preparation of a manual of technical requirements for direct
rainfall collection, dam construction and protection, water uses, and quality
control for each of the various ecological regions of the project area;
(c) training of extensionists in on-farm water management; (d) improvement
of the CISAGRO tractor workshop in Caruaru and purchase of eight tractors; and
(e) design and construction of two communal dams and preparation of their
operational guidelines. It is unlikely that multipurpose dams can be built on
small or even medium-sized farms, so the solution would be sought in communal
dams, constructed and operated by a group of farmers. As there is no experi-
ence to date in Pernambuco with this type of communal operation, the project



- 17 -
would construct two dams of about 50,000 m  (at US$30,000 each), and
organize two farmer assocations, whose members would be responsible for
dam operation and maintenance. For the selection of the dam-sites and
the establishment of farmer-organizations, the project has to rely on the
support and assistance of EMATER-PE. The experience gained with these
demonstratio.. dams could serve as a model for future expansion of water
storage systems. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from State Govern-
ment that CISAGRO, responsible under the component for improving the opera-
tion of, and the quality and coverage of tractor maintenance services
provided by, the Caruaru workshop, would complete this task by December 31,
1980. The Project Management Unit would direct the studies and assurances
were obtained from Government that consultants would be hired by December
31, 1979, to perform the data collection, studies, and prepare the manuals
on water conservation, with terms of reference and on conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, and that these studies and manuals would be presented to
the Bank for review before December 31, 1980. Assurances were also obtained
from the State that it would maintain nine tractors in operation in the
project area, in addition to the tractors to be acquired under the current
project. It would be a condition of disbursement for the construction of
communal demonstration dams, that constructions plans which include engineer-
ing designs, land specification and an evaluation of water quality and
availability had been approved by the Bank, the farmer associations had
been established, the manuals on water conservation had been completed, and
extension agents trained in water conservation.
4.20      Assistance to Cooperative Societies.  The project would build on
Government initiatives in the project area and use cooperatives to provide
some of the services necessary to support small farmer development. Under
the component eight agricultural cooperatives would be assisted in a phased
fashion with: (a) administrative and managerial guidance, including the finan-
cing of studies and key administrative personnel for three years; (b) coopera-
tive education to improve member participation; and (c) training of personnel
from a broader selection of cooperatives in management, administration and
marketing techniques.
4.21      There are 15 primary agricultural cooperatives in the project
area, providing input supply, mechanization, marketing and extension services
to their members. The principal problem facing cooperatives in the area is
a lack of administrative expertise. Assistance is provided by various
Government agencies, principally EMATER-PE and INCRA, and by three secondary
societies: COCANE, FECOMIPE and ASSOCENE. The execution of the component
would be coordinated by a full time officer within EMATER-PE. The agricul-
tural cooperatives to be selected for project assistance should have the
following characteristics: (a) an organizational structure with the potential
to profit from project assistance; (b) a sufficient number of active members
(over 200), with 30% or more of them being either landless or small farmers
with less than 20 ha; (c) a location in an area of good agricultural potential
and a concentration of potential small farmer-members; and (d) a management
open to operational innovation. Assistance would be initiated with an in-
depth study of management functions, followed by the implementation of the
studies' recommendations, the hiring of administrative personnel and the



- 18 -
training of existing personnel, where necessary. The studies and their
implementation would be undertaken by ASSOCENE, which has experience in this
field. FECOMIPE would implement the education program. With the administra-
tive mechanisms strengthened, the selected cooperatives would be in a
position to identify and provide those agricultural services, principally
marketing, which are needed most. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
from the State Government that it would confirm in a supplemental letter to
the Project Agreement, that the agreed-upon guidelines would be followed in
selecting cooperatives for project assistance and assurances were also
obtained from the State Government that agreement would be entered into and
maintained with those cooperatives receiving project assistance on admini-
strative and auditing requirements and on the maintenance of adequate staffing.
4.22      Marketing.  To ensure adequate marketing services and to resolve
potential bottlenecks, the marketing component would: (a) improve communica-
tion between EMATER-PE, cooperatives, and the Agricultural Information Service
(SIMA) through the use of two-way radios, making price and volume information
available to the small farmer so that harvests would be channeled to the most
advantageous markets; (b) assistance to eight selected cooperatives in the
project area, providing them with two assembly warehouses, each with a
capacity of 300 tons (at an average cost of US$13,700 each), and a small
truck to enable them to participate in the marketing of members' produce; and
(c) train staff of institutions engaged in marketing activities in the
project area; (d) provide information on market conditions for area produce,
through a program on local radio stations; (e) undertake a study, in parallel
with ongoing SUDENE studies, on the intermediation processs, price performance
and potential markets for twelve products 1/ to identify ways in which
efficiency could be improved and an increased share of final product price
made available to the farmer; and (f) study the farmers' participation in
municipal markets, one of the principal outlets for their produce, in order
to identify ways of improving their position with respect to intermediaries.
The latter studies would result in recommendations on design and location
of municipal market facilities to be constructed for small farmers. The
outcome of the experiment in the Paraiba-Bank project (Loan 1537-BR) with
small multi-purpose markets would be followed closely for possible replica-
tion in Pernambuco. The costs of such markets would be about US$20,000 each.
It would be a condition of disbursement for construction of market facilities,
that they would be based on plans, satisfactory to the Bank, and that an
agreement had been signed (convenio) between the State and the municipalities
to ensure proper maintenance of the market facilities. Prevailing market user
charges are adequate to cover operating and maintenance costs.
4.23      EMATER-PE would act as the executing agency for the implementation
of the marketing component, as the investments are closely tied to EMATER-
PE's ongoing cooperative and on farm assistance activities. EaATER-PE
would nominate a full-time officer for component implementation. The studies
and training would be coordinated by the PMU, in consultation with EMATER-PE.
1/   Cotton, maize, manioc, beans, green beans, cucumbers, chayote, pineapple,
sweetsop, meat and dairy products, in addition to the eight studied by
SUDENE: bananas, yams, guavas, onions, carrots, tomatoes, passion fruit
and cashews.



- i9 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from State Government that the
terms of reference for the commodity studies and the municipal markets
studies would be satisfactory to the Bank, and that the results of these
studies would be provided to the Bank, for comment, when available, but no
later than December 31, 1980.
4.24      Feeder Roads.  The network of Federal and State highways in the
project area is fed by 3,900 km of municipal roads, but these are often
impassable during rainy periods. Improvement of road conditions under the
project would provide for better use of farm inputs, better distribution of
agricultural and social services and improved access to farm areas and markets.
The road component would include: (a) road improvements (civil works) and
consulting services for engineering design and construction supervision, (b)
procurement of road construction and maintenance equipment, and (c) training
of municipal maintenance staff.
4.25      The civil works would provide for upgrading of some 950 km of
municipal roads in support of the project sponsored agricultural development
activities. A preliminary identification of those roads to be upgraded has
been done, with the rough breakdown of the number of kilometers to be upgraded
to given standards as follows: about 180 km to a 5.0 m wide gravel surfaced
standard (at US$26,000/ km); about 290 km to a 3.5 m wide gravel surfaced
standard (at US$18,000/km); and spot improvement of critical stretches and
road drainage along about 480 km (at US$6,200 km). The actual roads to be
upgraded each year would be presented in an annual work plan.  No new road
construction is proposed as the existing road network would be adequate to
meet project requirements provided it is upgraded and well maintained.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from State Government that:  (a)
roads would be selected to support those priority areas where agricultural
activities are focussed (para 4.05); any standards higher than minimum would
be justified on the basis of the incremental economic benefits expected; (b)
the specific roads to be improved under the project, as well as the proposed
standards, schedules and methods of execution would be reviewed and confirmed
annually by the Bank on the basis of field reviews, applying agreed criteria
(Annex 1); and (c) that consultants to assist in the preparation of engineer-
ing designs would be hired by December 31, 1979, on terms of reference and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The DER-PE would be responsible, with
assistance from consultants, for preparation of engineering designs, for
supervision of construction done by contractors, and for executing limited
force account improvements. The arrangements for the execution of the road
component would be included in a general agreement between the POLONORDESTE
management council and DER-PE. Final agreement on the organization and
full-time staff needed would be a condition for disbursement for project
expenditures related to the road component.
4.26      Road maintenance equipment and training of municipal maintenance
staff would be provided in an attempt to ensure that the improvements made
under the project were properly maintained. DER-PE has eight maintenance
field offices (residencias), two of which are in the project area, but they
are poorly equipped and staffed only for maintenance of State highways.
Further, DER-PE gives maintenance priority to paved roads and the more
important unpaved roads but gives only sporadic help to municipalities,
which have little or no maintenance capabilities. Maintenance equipment
consisting chiefly of motorgraders, road rollers and trucks would be financed
to provide the DER-PE with the capability for implementing a regular program



- 20 -
of mechanized road maintenance assistance to the municipalities. However,
in view of the limitations of municipal funds and low anticipated traffic
levels, municipal road maintenance would be primarily dependent on municipal
work forces equipped with hand tools. Thus, DER-PE would train municipal
foremen in road maintenance and provide two years of supervised implementa-
tion. In addition, municipal maintenance supervisors would be trained in
planning, organizing and supervising road maintenance so as to profit from
systematically programmed assistance from the State to the municipalities.
All costs of maintenance of municipal roads would be paid by the municipali-
ties, and assurances were obtained at negotiations from State Government
that written agreements (convenios) would be established with municipalities
that funds would be sufficient to ensure that feeder roads were maintained
in accordance with an agreed program, before any road improvements are
undertaken in the municipality. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
from State Government that DER-PE would adequately maintain and renew
maintenance equipment for project area roads, and that charges for use of
DER-PE maintenance equipment would cover operation, maintenance and depre-
ciation expenses.
4.27      Small Non-farm Enterprises:  The project would support the develop-
ment of small non-farm enterprises in the project area performing a variety
of activities including food processing, carpentry, ceramics, sewing, leather
work, small retail stores and services such as those provided by mechanics,
electricians, and stone masons. The component would provide: (a) equipment
and staffing for seven offices in the project area for a non-farm enterprise
extension service; (b) training of extensionists; (c) training of about 400
small entrepreneurs; and (d) research into local production problems and inter-
mediate technology. The costs to be financed include equipment, vehicles,
materials and incremental salaries for the local extension offices (para
4.9). Development of micro-enterprises woula provide emiployraent and respond
to increased demand for agricultural inputs and servic s and con. umption items
resulting from project-initiated growth in the area. The existel e of this
type of component helps ensure additional impact from project inx'stments, as
opportunities would be provided for spending the additional income to be
earned from project activities within the project area. This component
replicates a similar Bank effort in the State of Paraiba (Loan 1537-BR),
which is being implemented successfully.
4.28      UNO would be the executing agency.  UNO, a State government agency
is a part of the Federal level Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small
and Medium Enterprises (CEBRAE) and has had six years of experience in
providing this kind of assistance, through the implementation of a similar
type of program in Recife. The component would provide for a regional office
for UNO in Caruaru, and for gradually opening local offices in the six largest
towns in the project area during the project investment period. Some 15
technical advisors and 60 additional extension agents would be incorporated
in a phased fashion into the extension service. Extension agents would
identify those enterprises to be assisted, provide guidance in managerial
and production matters, assist in the preparation of investment proposals
for the banks, and serve as a link between the entrepreneur and other sources
of information and expertise. The specialized technical advisors would
support the work of the extension agents, assist in training them, and pro-
vide advice on detailed managerial and production problems. Training for
entrepreneurs would be provided by the National Services for Apprenticeship
in Commerce and Industry (SENAC and SENAI respectively), and the Intensive



- 21 -
Program for the Training of Labor, (PIPMO). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations from State Government that assistance from UNO, would be
provided only to small enterprises with less than 10 employees, fixed assets
of less than 200 MVR (US$12,000), annual sales under 1,000 MVR (US$60,000),
and monthly owner net income of under 8 MVR (US$480). It is expected that
about 2,700 micro-enterprises would receive technical assistance and training,
with 2,300 receiving credit from local sources. Credit would be provided by
BANDEPE, with which UNO has already established a close working relationship,
BB and BNB, from credit lines that are presently available. Local bank
experience with UNO activities in Recife, and with the non-farm enterprise
support component in the Bank-financed rural development project in Paraiba
(Loan 1537-BR) has been favorable, and at appraisal the banks expressed
willingness to support expansion of this type of activity. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that State Government would make adequate arrange-
ments with the banks, to ensure the availability of credit for the develop-
ment of small non-farm enterprises assisted under the project.
4.29      The project also would, over the five-year project period, contri-
bute 20% to the costs of a research program on production and management
problems of small enterprises currently being undertaken by the Technological
Institute of Pernambuco (ITEP), with support from CEBRAE. Some five different
kinds of engineers, plus a coordinator, would work under this program,
identifying and developing solutions for technological problems for each of
the representative groups of enterprises; demonstrating improved technologies
to groups of small entrepreneurs; and identifying and cataloging existing
technological possibilities from world-wide sources to serve as a resource
base for local small-scale entrepreneurs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations from the State Government that studies to be undertaken under
the component would have terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
that the studies would be provided to the Bank for comment upon completion.
Social Infrastructure
4.30      Village Water Supply.  In conjunction with the proposed health
component the project would provide for the design and construction of 36
village water supply systems serving some 28,500 families, of which 27,000
would receive in-house water and 1,500 would receive standpipe facilities,
covering altogether about 160,000 individuals. The project component would
include: (a) preparation of the engineering designs and operating and
maintenance manuals for the water supply systems during the first year of
the project; (b) construction of 36 systems; (c) purchase of operating tools
and equipment; and (d) training and supervision of operating staff. There
are various types of systems: (a) seven with underground water supply at
US$86,800 per unit; (b) 19 with surface water supply at US$83,900 per unit;
(c) five with water derived from an existing urban supply system at US$53,400
per unit; and (d) five simple standpipe systems at US$29,500 per unit. The
average per beneficiary household costs would be US$92. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations, from State Government that the State Water Supply
and Sanitation Company (COMPESA), responsible for the construction of the
water supply systems, would submit for Bank approval before construction
started, designs whose cost exceeded US$120 per beneficiary household. The
costs of individual house connections are collected from the consumer,
although financing is available upon request in rural areas. In-house
plumbing is financed by the consumer.



- 22 -
4.31      COMPESA would prepare the engineering designs and carry out
construction of the systems in consultation with PIASS. It would also
prepare operation and maintenance manuals, set up supervision systems, and
carry out the training program for operators. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations from State Government, that it would cause COMPESA to prepare
the detailed designs and standards for the various types of water supply
systems, operating manuals for the systems and the details of the training
program and present them for comment to the Bank when they become available,
but not later than December 31, 1980, and that the terms of reference for
the preparation of these items would be acceptable to the Bank. COMPESA
would operate and maintain through local offices the five systems that would
be extensions of existing COMPESA-operated systems and 11 other new systems
with service to more than 1,000 houses. The operation and maintenance costs
would be recovered through a monthly tariff of about US$1.50 per connection
per month. The other 20 systems would be administered by local community
associations to be promoted, and organized by EMATER-PE. It would be a
condition of disbursement for the construction of water supply systems that
the designs had been approved by the Bank, and the responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the system assumed by COMPESA or a community
association. In this respect, the project relies heavily on EMATER's
community development activities to mDtivate the farmer groups to participate.
The community-administered water supply systems would be operated by the
local health attendant under the PIASS program and supervised by COMPESA.
The costs would be covered by monthly family quotas, to be established and
levied through the community associations, with possible municipal subsidies
for not more than two years where necessary.
4.32      Education and Training.  The education component would assist SEC
in expanding and strengthening basic education opportunities in the project
area and in providing trainipw courses for both the rural target - pulation
and technical personnel of small farm enterprises. The component would
include: (a) construction furnishing and equipping of 60 rural primary
schools, for a total of 8,400 student places, double shift; (b) construction,
furnishing and equipping of 15 intermediate schools (eight primary level
grades), for a total of 4,200 students, double shift; (c) construction,
furnishing and equipping of one Rural Education Center for both formal and
non-formal education and training programs; (d) the training and/or upgrading
of about 1,600 teachers and supervisors and of about 170 State and municipal
school administrators, instructors leaders and technicians; (e) provision of
non formal training and upgrading programs for the adult target population
of the project area; (f) two studies, one to define educational and training
requirements for the adult target population in the project area, based on
its present educational level, and one to identify trained manpower require-
ments within the project area; (g) technical assistance to SEC; and (h)
strengthening of the administrative and supervisory capacity of SEC in view
of the project, including salary complements for full-time SEC staff in
charge of the implementation of the education component and the equipment,
materials and operating costs of component implementation.
4.33      Assurances were obtained from State Government at negotiations that
(a) construction would be according to detailed site plans satisfactory to
the Bank, reviewed and confirmed annually on the basis of field reviews; and
(b) schools would be built at sites where (i) the school age population numbers



- 23 -
at least 1,200 within a catchment area of about 28 km  for the basic schools
and about 1,400 within the same catchment area for the intermediate schools;
(ii) inadequate facilities exist; (iii) students do not have to walk more
than 3 km to reach the school; and (iv) there is year-round vehicle access
for the intermediate schools and for the Center. Disbursements against
construction costs would be conditioned upon provision to the Bank of
satisfactory evidence of acquisition of the respective sites.
4.34      The strengthening of the primary school infrastructure, the
upgrading and occupational training courses, and the studies aim at improving
the access to basic education and the quality of that education and at
offering training opportunities suitable to the requirements of the project
area. To assure the effectiveness of the education component, assurances
were also obtained from State Government during negotiatons that: (a) prior
to starting construction of project schools in a particular municipality,
the State would secure the municipality's agreement to give priority to the
continued employment of the trained teachers following their successful
completion of the training courses and pay at least the minimum salaries
guaranteed by SEC for teachers on the State payroll; (b) the State would
give priority to continuing the employment of project-trained school super-
visors and SEC technical personnel following their successful completion of
the training upgrading course; (c) by April 1, 1980, SEC would provide the
Bank, for comment, with the results of the study on manpower training
requirements and of the first phase of the educational needs surveys, all of
which would be conducted under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
and (d) the State would arrange for adequate funding to maintain appropriately
the education facilities and services developed under the project, and
support project municipalities where necessary in financing recurrent
expenditures generated by the project.
4.35      Health and Sanitation.  The project would build on the recent
expansion of the health delivery system, particularly on the network of
about 110 village health posts (miniposts). The objective of the component
would be to deliver integral health care to 80% of the project's beneficiaries,
80% of the mother and child health care groups and 45% of the adults living in
the concentration areas of the project. In doing this, it would reach some
18,000 farmers and some 96,000 mothers and children. The component would
include: (a) construction and equipment of regional health centers at
Limoeiro and Caruaru, and of two local health centers; (b) the upgrading of
20 local health centers; (c) construction and placing of 5,660 pit latrines;
(d) training of staff for health centers, miniposts, and community health
agents, refresher courses for the local rural staff, and two instruction
seminars for the professional team managing the health care program in the
project area at the regional and local level; (e) construction of storage
facilities serving both village health posts and the supporting health
centers and the acquisition of six motor vehicles for supervision and trans-
port of materials; and (f) development of an improved health administration
system in two of the regional departments of SES, in Caruaru and Limoeiro.
For this purpose, provisions would be made for 18 man-months of technical
assistance to identify and suggest solutions for administrative problems and
for the salaries of two administrators and one nurse for two years during
implementation of the accepted recommendations. Assurances were obtained at



- 24 -
negotiations from Government that the consultants would be hired under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and that the administrative studies
would be undertaken under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.36      The SES would be the executing agent of the health component.
SES' Health Department, through its unit for Special Programs and Projects
would implement the administrative and technical subcomponents, and handle
the technical assistance. SES's Administration Department would carry
out the construction of the regional health centers and storage facilities.
The Caruaru and Limoeiro Regional Departments (DIRES II and IV), advised
by SES, would execute the construction and upgrading of local health centers
as well as the training of the rural staff. Funds to carry out these
activities would be transferred from the State to the regional Departments,
forming special budgetary units. The project would improve and consolidate
the DIRES II and IV administrative structure by providing for consultants'
services and personnel to develop and implement acceptable proposals.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from State Government that SES
would present for comment to the Bank by October 30, 1980, proposals to
improve the administrative structure of the health services in the project
area. Disbursements for the construction of health centers would be condi-
tioned on the Bank receiving evidence of the acquisition of the respective
sites.
Project Management
4.37      The TU of POLONORDESTE in Pernambuco is responsible for the imple-
mentation of the four POLONORDESTE-projects in the State (para 3.02). The
staff in charge of the on-going Agreste Setentrional project, would be
expanded and reorganized into the Project Management Unit (PMU) for the
proposed project. It would be in charge of the administration and monitoring
of this project as well as of the coordination of the activities of all execut-
ing agencies. The PMU would also coordinate the engagement of consultants and
the execution of special studies in the various project components. The PMU
would maintain its main office in Recife and establish a regional office in
Caruaru. The evaluation of the project would be carried out by an independent
agency, the Integrated Masters Program for Economic and Social Studies of the
Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPe) (para 6.07). The majority of the
PMU staff still has to be recruited or trained. To ensure an effective start
of project implementation, the project would provide consultancy services for
24 man-months to assist the Project Manager in establishing his organization,
promoting the project, and setting up the monitoring system.
4.38      The project would finance:  (a) vehicles and equipment for PMU's
offices; (b) staff salaries and travel expenses; (c) staff training and
consultant services; (d) monitoring; and (e) evaluation. Project evalua-
tion activities would be based on an agreement between the POLONORDESTE
Management Council and the UFPe, and would include: (a) three baseline
studies; (b) ongoing evaluation assistance to the PMU; and (c) post project
evaluation (para 6.07). Assurances were obtained at negotiations from
Government that the consultants to assist the PMU in the management of the
project would be engaged by December 31, 1979 with terms of reference and on
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 25 -
4.39       The management component also includes the costs for the land tenure
studies and the possible costs for improving land titling services. As noted
in paragraph 2.09 the distribution of land ownership is extremely unequal,
with a very small number of families controlling most of the available
farm land. Various possibilities for attempting to improve the situation
were proposed at appraisal, but insufficient data were available to arrive
at a workable proposition. The ownership of sufficient land and security
of tenure are important factors in determining small farmer motivation and
development. The component would finance: (a) consultant services, to
study and identify the best ways in which land purchase credit and land
titling services can be provided for small farmers and sharecroppers; and
(b) the startup costs of the institutional framework needed to implement
acceptable proposals. The studies would look into other experiences in the
Northeast, including those of ongoing rural development projects, would make
recommendations for the mechanisms to provide adequate land purchase credit,
land titling services and would identify areas of priority. The direct
beneficiaries of the project are mostly landowners and the studies would not
delay the implementation of the credit component. The studies and the
eventual land titling services aim to improve and complement existing
procedures and to make them more accesible for small and landless farmers.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Government that consultants
for these studies would be hired by December 31, 1979, under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and from State Government
that these studies would be concluded by June 30, 1980, and that the
results and proposals coming from the studies would be discussed with the
Bank. The PMU within POLONORDESTE would be responsible for their execution.
It would be a condition of disbursement for the establishment of the institu-
tional framework that the proposals to be implemented are acceptable to the
Bank.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01       The total project cost over the five year project implementation
period (April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1984) is estimated at US$116.7 million,
including taxes of US$2.3 million, physical contingencies 1/ estimated at
1/   Physical contingencies were estimated based on the level of preparation
of the various components. They reflect the extent to which detailed
plans were available at appraisal and provide for justifiable variation
in physical sizes and quantities of goods purchased under the project,
over and above the best estimates made at appraisal. Physical contin-
gencies applied were as follows: extension services, 2%; agricultural
research, 3%; improved seed supply, 8%; water conservation, 11%; coop-
erative society assistance, 6%; marketing, 10%; feeder roads, 15%; small
non-farm enterprises, 5%; village water supply, 18%; education, 11%;
health and sanitation, 8%; administration and monitoring, 5%; and evalua-
tion, 8%.



- 26 -
5% of the baseline cost, and price contingencies 1/ estimated at 24% of the
baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Baseline costs, in October 1978
prices were estimated in cruzeiros at the rate of US$1.00 = Cr$ 19.15. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$18 million, about 16% of total
project costs. The project costs are summarized overleaf and annual phasing
is in Annex 2.
Financing
5.02       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 35% of project costs net of taxes (34% of total
project costs), the balance being financed by the Federal Government under the
POLONORDESTE program. The loan would be for 15 years, including three years
of grace. It would cover the project's foreign exchange costs of US$18
million, as well as US$22 million or 22% of the local costs.
5.03       It would be appropriate for the Bank to assist in financing
part of the local currency for expenditures in the project, which has a
high priority, and yet a relatively low foreign exchange component (16%),
due to the capability of the Brazilian economy to produce the inputs required
by the proposed project. If the Bank is to succeed in mobilizing additional
Brazilian resources and commitment for this kind of project, it seems reason-
able that the Bank contribute to the financing of the project with at least
34% of total costs. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
Government that adequate funds would be made available promptly for the
effective and timely execution of the project and adequate operation and
maintenance of the facilities and services developed under the project.
Assurances were also obtained from State Government that it would arrange
for timely acquisition and necessary financing of any additional land or
rights of way necessary for project works.
5.04       The proposed project builds on an ongoing and reformulated project.
To ensure a smooth transition, retroactive financing of up to US$1,500,000
equivalent is proposed to finance start-up costs, incurred after the beginning
of the POLONORDESTE fiscal year of 1 April 1979 but before signing of the
loan. Eligible activities would include: (a) recruitment and staffing of the
PMU, the extension service, research team and the non-farm enterprise technical
assistance agency; (b) designs and engineering studies for roads, schools,
health centers and village water supply systems; and (c) incremental credit
for the 1979 agricultural season, starting in March.
1/   Price contingencies were calculated based on the US dollar baseline
cost plus physical contingencies, as follows, in annual percentage
rates of increase: (a) civil works: 15% in 1978, and 7% thereafter;
(b) equipment: 14% in 1978, and 6% thereafter; and (c) other items,
including materials, salaries and credit: 7% from 1978 onwards. Price
contingencies were calculated starting from 31 October 1978, through
the fiscal years of the project, which start on 1 April and go to 31
March of the following year.



- 27 -
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Total Project Costs
(US$ million)                  % of total       %
Baseline   Foreign
Local     Foreign       Total           Costs     Exchange
Credit
On-farm Investment Credit        23.16       3.16        26.32          29.3           12
Incremental On-Farm Working
Capital Credit                  16.00       2.61        18.61          20.7           14
Production Support Services
Agricultural Extension            8.00       0.70         8.70           9.7            8
Agricultural Research             1.23       0.11         1.34           1.5            8
Seed Supply                       0.33       0.09         0.42           0.5           21
Water Conservationi-              0.50        0.21        0.71           0.8           29
Assistance to Cooperative
Societies                        0.90       0.09         0.99           1.1            9
Marketing                         1.62        0.14        1.76           2.0            8
Feeder Roads                      9.95       5.13        15.08          16.8           34
Small Non-Farm Enterprises        2.52       0.13         2.65           3.0            5
Social Infrastructure
Village Water Supply              2.10       0.87         2.97            3.3          30
Education and Training            4.04       0.50         4.54           5.1           11
Health and Sanitation             1.40       0.29         1.69           1.9           17
Project Management
Administration and Monitoring    2.98        0.12         3.10            3.4           4
Evaluation                        0.80       0.01         0.81           0.9            1
Baseline Costs                      75.53      14.16        89.69         100.0           16
Physical Contingencies               3.65       0.69         4.34           4.8 1/        16
Price Contingencies                 19.09       3.57        22.66           24.1 -        16
Total Project Costs             98.27      18.42       116.69         130.1-         16
1/ Price contingencies calculated as percent of baseline plus physical contingencies.



- 28 -
Procurement
5.05      Farm inputs and investment items would be procured by individual
farmers through local trade channels. The equipment, tractors and vehicles
required (in relatively small amounts) over the project execution period
by the numerous agencies responsible for the different project components
are locally produced and readily available. Such items (amounting to a
total of roughly US$2.2 million without contingencies) would be procured in
accordance with local procurement and competitive bidding procedures, which
are acceptable. Construction works for feeder road improvement (totalling
US$12.4 million) would be planned annually on the basis of previous field
surveys, establishing the quantity and quality of works required, and divided
in construction lots per municipality for Class A, B and C roads. The Bank
would review the construction standards, bidding and contract documents
before the first round of bidding. Contracts for the works for feeder road
improvement and for civil works required for the rural primary schools,
rural educational centers, health centers, and market places (an additional
US$3.9 million) would be awarded to prequalified bidders on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
which are satisfactory. Brazil has a competitive local construction
industry capable of carrying out the project works. Water supply works
(totalling US$2.6 million) would be constructed by COMPESA by force account
or, if so required, by prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally. Since the individual construction works are
relatively small and quite dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected
to be interested, though they would not be excluded from bidding. All other
construction work, including storage facilities, sanitation installations
and two small demonstration dams (totalling US$1.3 million) would be of
minor size and also dispersed. These would be constructed under local
procurement and competitive bidding, self-help or in the case of the demon-
stration dams, by force account. Consultancy services (totalling US$2.4
million) would include about 800 man-months (at an average cost of US$3,000/
month). It is expected that practically all consultant expertise could be
found in Brazil, but expatriate services are not excluded. About 40% of the
consultancy services would go to feeder road works, about 30% to assistance
for institution building, 20% to special studies and 10% to construction.
Disbursements
5.06      The proposed loan, which would finance 34% of total project
costs, would be disbursed at the rate of 34% of project expenditures for each
component. Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of Brazil, the
fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE program, against withdrawal applications
covering statements of expenditures initiated by the various executing agencies
under the project and certified by the PMU of POLONORDESTE in Pernambuco.
Statements of expenditures would be audited as indicated in para. 6.08.
Supporting documentation for credit, salaries, administrative expenses and
minor construction under force account would not be submitted to the Bank but
would be retained by the PMU and made available for inspection by the Bank
during the course of project supervision missions. Standard documentation
covering civil works, vehicles, tractors and equipment and consultancies and
technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Details of the



- 29 -
documents required have been reviewed during negotiations and a description
of disbursement procedures against statements of expenditures is given in
Annex 3. Disbursements are expected to occur over about five years. The
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 3.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
6.01      The State of Pernambuco has already created a Management Council
(Conselho Diretor) composed of representatives of the principal executing
agencies and chaired by the Secretary of Planning to guide implementation
of its POLONORDESTE projects. In 1975 a technical unit was organized
within the Secretary of Planning to manage the POLONORDESTE projects in the
State (paras 3.01-3.02). The TU started as a single team for all four
POLONORDESTE projects, but with the increasing workload separate management
units (gerencias) for each project were set up in 1978. The proposed
project would be managed by the PMU for the ongoing Agreste Setentrional
project. To ensure proper coordination and adequate integration, the
Secretary of Planning through the TU and the PMU would enter into contracts
(convenios) with the executing agencies, outlining their responsibilities
(para 6.04). Each component would be the primary responsibility of only one
agency, which would closely cooperate with other agencies active in the same
field. A detailed list of the executing agencies and the collaborating
agencies by component is given in Annex 4. Coordination would be facilitated
by the nomination of a full-time liaison officer in each agency who would
work exclusively for the project and be responsible for channeling the
required quarterly monitoring data to the PMU. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations from State Government that the staff of the PMU would be
adequately maintained during the project period and that it would support
other participating state agencies in executing the project.
Project Management Unit
6.02      The PMU would be responsible for day-to-day management, overall
coordination of the activities of the executing agencies, and monitoring of
the project. While remaining part of the TU and responsible to the
POLONORDESTE coordinator, the Unit would be headed by an autonomous project
manager, headquartered in Recife. The PMU would establish a regional office
in Caruaru. Staff would consist of: (a) a project manager, an assistant
manager primarily in charge of monitoring, six technical assistants and
administrative supporting staff (budget clerks, typists, drivers) in the
Recife Office; and (b) a regional coordinator, two technical assistants
and some administrative supporting staff in the Caruaru office. An organiza-
tion chart of the PMU is provided in Annex 5. The regional coordinator, with
the primary tasks of promoting the project in the area and maintaining close
and continuous contact with local Bank agents and the mayors (prefeitos),
would be experienced in agricultural credit matters. One of his assistants
would concentrate on production issues and the other on all social development
questions. This regional staff would coordinate project implementation at the
local level, being principally involved in troubleshooting, solving minor
problems and functioning as a link between PMU, executing agencies and benefi-
ciaries. The staff of the Recife office would spend a substantial part of its



- 30 -
time making field visits to improve project monitoring and to adjust implemen-
tation strategies, when necessary. Staffing of the PMU is of vital importance
and it would be a condition for negotiations that the project manager and
the regional coordinator had been nominated and were in position. Assurances
were also obtained at negotiations from State Government that it would
appoint qualified personnel and that the Bank would be consulted should the
incumbant project manager or the regional coordinator, have to be replaced.
Since the State of Pernambuco has had little experience in handling a
project of the proposed scale and complexity, consultants would be engaged
(24 man-months) to assist project management during the startup period.
Operating Agreements and Procedures
6.03      Since the project covers a broad range of activities, the timing
and scope of some would undoubtedly require adjustments as experience is
gained. Thus, each participating agency would prepare jointly with the PMU
an annual plan detailing the activities and expected expenditures under the
project for the following year, to coincide with POLONORDESTE's April 1 to
March 31 fiscal year. The work program, consisting of the integrated
package of annual plans, as reviewed and approved by the State POLONORDESTE
Management Council, would then be submitted to the regional and federal
POLONORDESTE coordinating groups as a basis for yearly budget allocations.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations from Government that (a) the
annual work program would be submitted to the Bank by November 30 each year
for review and comment; (b) the annual work program would be reviewed
promptly by the regional POLONORDESTE coordinating group and (c) the Bank
would be provided with the approved program by January 31 each year.
6.04      Consistent with common practice in Brazil, the State Government
through the Management Council and the TU of POLONORDESTE would enter into
written agreements (convenios) with the executing agencies to specify their
respective responsibilities under the project and help ensure timely project
completion (para 6.01). In addition, convenios would need to be concluded,
under the aegis of the PMU, between the executing agencies themselves when
more than one entity is involved in project implementation. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations from State Government that agreements would be
entered into between various executing agencies and the corresponding
municipalities or community organizations, to ensure adequate operation and
maintenance of project facilities and services, prior to the construction of
civil works for feeder roads, schools, health centers, water supply systems,
communal demonstration dams and municipal markets. These inter-agency
agreements would be coordinated by the PMU. Draft convenios required for
project execution were prepared by the PMU and reviewed by the Bank before
negotiations. During negotiations, assurances were obtain from the State
Government that it would enter into and maintain during the project execution
period all such agreements as are necessary to assure active cooperation and
establish execution responsibilities of the various participating agencies
(Annex 4). Receipt by the Bank of satisfactory signed agreements between
the Executing Agency for a given component, and the POLONORDESTE Management
council, delineating implementation and funding responsibilities, would be a
condition of disbursement for each of these components.
Implementation Schedule
6.05      A chronogram of the main project activities is given in Annex 6.



- 31 -
Project Monitoring
6.06      The project monitoring unit would comprise one assistant project
manager and two assistants, one for all production support components and one
for all social components. The PMU would be responsible for oreparing
quarterly monitoring reports and assisting the evaluation team in data
gathering. The basic information for monitoring would be provided by the
executing agencies, mainly through their monitoring or statistical depart-
ments, and the technical assistants of the PMU. To ensure timely data
collection, the PMU would prepare standard forms compatible with the admi-
nistrative systems of the executing agencies, establishing additional admi-
nistrative mechanisms when required. The monitoring data would be distri-
buted to the members of the POLONORDESTE Management Council, the Evaluation
Team, the regional coordinator and the executing agencies. After receipt of
possible comments the PMU would feed the relevant monitoring information back
to the regional and local levels during ensuing field visits. The quarterly
monitoring report would point out shortfalls in project achievements relative
to expectations, by comparing actual performance to targets of the same date
by itemized indicators. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from
Government that quarterly monitoring reports would be provided to the Bank
when available. The monitoring staff of the PMU would cooperate with the
evaluation team in preparing yearly surveys, comparing achievements to the
initial situation by itemized objectives and key indicators (Annex 7). The
monitoring team would take the lead within the PMU in preparing the Project
Completion Report. Assurances were also obtained from Government that this
report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank within six months after
final disbursement.
Project Evaluation
6.07      The evaluation of project impact and results would be executed by
an independent entity -- the Integrated Master's Program of Economics and
Social Studies of the UFPe -- which would report report directly to the
POLONORDESTE Management Council. The evaluation exercise would consist of
baseline studies, on-going evaluation of project implementation and a post
project evaluation. The baseline studies would provide the UFPe and manage-
ment with a point of reference for evaluating project impact. The pre-project
situation would be established by three studies concerning: (a) the present
health situation, (b) the present situation in education and (c) the actual
level of income of small farmers and employment, in the project area. The
annual evaluation, using monitoring data and spot-checks as required, would
call the attention of management to existing development trends in the
project area and make proposals for project adjustment where appropriate.
The evaluation exercise would be an in-depth analysis of project-motivated
developments, trying to identify the less visible factors that shape them
and to anticipate future developments in order to enable management to
respond adequately to up-coming demands in the project area. The post
project evaluation exercise would describe final project impact and assist
project management in preparing the Completion Report. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations from State Government that: (a) the baseline
studies would be carried out under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank; (b) the Bank would be provided with a definitive evaluation program,



- 32 -
before December 31, 1979; (c) that the evaluation reports would be submitted
to the Bank for comment, when they become available; and from the Government
that a post-project evaluation report would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank within eight months after the final disbursement.
Accounts and Auditing
6.08       Each of the participating agencies including the PMU would maintain
separate accounts of its project expenditures, which would be audited
annually by Government auditors (Inspetoria Geral das Financas, IGF) accord-
ing to standard Government practice for POLONORDESTE projects. Both BB and
BNB are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit (Divisao de Auditoria da
Contadoria Geral) and BNB is also audited by satisfactory independent
auditors. The PMU would maintain accounts of its own project expenditures
as well as of the expenditures by each participating agency. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations from Government that (a) copies of the audited
statements of project accounts of the various participating agencies and the
PMU and of the audited statements of the participating banks and of their
lending under the project would be provided to the Bank through the PMU
within six months of the end of each POLONORDESTE fiscal year, and (b) that
such audit reports would include a separate opinion as to whether the
procedures and controls relating to the statements of expenditures were
properly prepared and in accordance with the legal project requirements.
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
Production
7.01       The thrust of the proposed project would be to diversify small
farmer activities from the traditional cultivation of subsistence crops,
into far more remunerative vegetable and fruit crops. Previous levels of
subsistence food production would be maintained and risks from drought
reduced under improved mixed farming systems (see Annex 8). The incremental
production would be derived from (a) expansion of the area under improved
pastures; (b) cultivation of about 14,000 ha of newly introduced fruit and
vegetable crops; and (c) the increase of productivity through the use of
improved seeds, and improved management and technology, as well as through
off-farm investments, particularly in roads, storage facilities, extension and
research and agricultural information services. Details of expected production
and productivity derived from assumptions contained in 19 illustrative farm
models are given overleaf. The project would build on developments already
initiated by progressive farmers in the project area and would assist small
farmers to participate in these trends. At estimated 1978 farmgate prices,
incremental annual production at full development is expected to amount to
US$35.2 million equivalent. Value of production per hectare is expected to
increase about 143%, from US$226 to US$550 equivalent.
7.02       Since there are only limited possibilities for increasing the
cropped area within a given farm size and with a given soil quality, the
farmer has to balance a decrease in the area under traditional crops with an
increase in productivity, if he is to introduce new crops while maintaining
production levels of subsistence crops adequate to cover his needs. The



Northeast Brazil
Pernambuco Rural Development Project
Agreste Setentrional
Project Participants Estimated Production
Incremental Production
Without Project at                        With Project at                   Due to Project at
Full Development                        Full Development                    Full Development
Production
Crop                   Unit            Before Project      Area 4/  Yield       Production      Area -     Yield          Production   Production         Value
{Units] ~    (ha)         /ha          (Units)       (ha)        /ha             (Units)       (Units)    (US$ million)
Manioc Root-                    1,000 tons             173.72     34,099   11.21 tona         191.10    32,340        15.41 tons        249.19         58.09          2.64
1/
Beans-                          1,000 tons              15.57     32,300    0.53 tons          17.02    28,176         0.63 tons         17.65          0.63          0.39
1/                          1,000 tons              16.84      32,300    0.57 tons         18.55    27,976         0.71 tons          19.79          1.24         0.16
Cotto1                         1,000 tons                4.74     15,251    0.34 tons           5.22    11,083         0.46 tons          5.14         -0.08         -0.03
Milk                           1,000 litres        13,536.6          -       3 1/cow/day 14,889.5          -        5 1/cow/day      28,587.7      13,698.2           2.95
Beef                            1,000 Kg             2,304.6         -                      2,534.6        -                          4,754.8       2,220.2           1.52
Tomatoes                       1,000 tons                                                                1,809        22.1  tons         39.97         39.97          8.80         w
Green Peppers                  1,000 tons                                                                1,130         5.21 tons          5.89          5.89          1.21
2/
Cucumbers -                    1,000 tons                                                                  892         8.70 tons          7.76          7.76          0.75
Green Beans -                  1,000 tons                                                                1,463         5.22 tons          7.64          7.64          1.72
Cabbages -                     1,000 tons                                                                1,167        13.05 tons         15.23         15.23          1.78
Carrots                        1,000 tons                                                                1,159        19.13 tons         22.17         22.17          3.81
Passion Fruit                  1,000 tons                                                                  589         6.35 tons          3.74          3.74          0.61
Chuchu-/                     million units                                                                 285   58,670 unit             16.72         16.72          0.31
Pineapples                   million fruits                                                                600   10,750 fruit             6.45          6.45          1.19
Bananas                         1,000 tons                                                               2,667        12.43 tons         33.14         33.14          2.91
Sweetsop2                    million fruits                                                              1,931   27,840 fruit            53.76         53.76         4.44
Improved Pasture                   ha                             29,159    0.8 AU/ha                   58,202         1.2 AU/ha
Natural Pasture /Fallow            ha                             39,249                                 3,400
Cropped Area                       ha                             48,825                                55,557
Total Farm ArES ha                                                                                     117,159
Total Value (US$ million)                                                                                                                                           35.16
1/ These products are intercropped: manioc/corn/beans; cotton/corn/beans, hence areas cropped are not additive.
2/ These products are representing also other crops, see Annex .8 * P. 1.
j, Chayote-squash.                     -
4/ Areas not additive, due to intereropping of most of the crops



- 34 -
relative importance of the different crops of project participants would
change during project implementation (Annex 8, Table 1). Manioc, corn and
beans would remain key crops, with their production increasing slightly over
without-project levels. However, their share of the total value of the
production of participating farmers would drop from 76% to 39%. Total cotton
production would not be substantially affected by project activities. As
with the other subsistence crops, decreases in area under cultivation would
be offset by increases in productivity. Some 30,000 ha of pastures would be
improved, in farms over 5 ha in size, replacing natural pastures. Vegetable
production would increase markedly. Farmers would plant small quantities of
a wide variety of vegetables, responding to market trends. Fruit, meat and
milk production would also increase, as farmers combine cultivation of high
yielding but more risky vegetables, with more stable perennial fruit and
livestock. The incremental value of fruit and vegetable production is esti-
mated at US$27.5 million per year at full development.
7.03      Yield increases due to project activities, used in analyzing ex-
pected agricultural production, average 30% over without project levels, with
maximum levels of production attained within a 10 year development period.
The highest increases of between 40 and 50% are achieved in special cases for
manioc, cotton and certain fruits. Yields would be increased and unnecessary
crop losses reduced principally through better farm management, coupled with
the use of improved seeds, improved disease and pest control methods, fertil-
izer and other inputs. Estimated yields at full development are below levels
attained by the most progressive farmers in the project area, and they reflect
best judgements on what could be achieved within the constraints imposed by
climatic and soil conditions. Farmers to be assisted under the project would
come from regions selected for their favorable development potential (para.
4.05). Yields were decreased from projected levels by a loss factor, estimated
at 13%, as an allowance for the effect of the irregular climate in the project
area. Approximately 52% of the incremental production (by value) would come
from vegetables, 26% from fruits, 13% from livestock products, and 9% from
traditional crops. Because of the "demonstration effect" of project activities
and infrastructural development, production increase are also probable from
other farms in the project area.
Demand
7.04      The project area covering half of the Agreste region already
accounts for an important share of the current state agricultural production
and is becoming a major food producing area for the State. The project
would further reinforce this trend. Available data on demand from potential
markets and production in other potentially competitive production areas,
suggests that project production could face demand constraints or price
reductions were it not for planned project investments in increased storage
facilities, improved market services and access roads (para. 4.22 and
4.24). The chief markets for project production include (a) the urban
centers in the Agreste area and the Recife metropolitan area, all of which
are growing at about 3% per annum and will total around 3.3 million inhabi-
tants in the mid-1980s; (b) the food processing industries located in the
western half of the project area, which include five factories processing
fruit and vegetables drawn from the whole of the northeast for nation-wide



distribution; and (c) the consumption on the farms and in the rural areas.
It should be noted that the actual fruit and vegetables used in the projec-
tion of future production and consumption are proxies for those which would
actually be produced. The most important are those included in production
planning. The actual fruits and vegetables planted would deDend on pre-
vailing agricultural and market conditions. A summary of current agricul-
tural production at the State and project level and an indication of probable
urban and industrial demand are summarized as follows:
Project   Incremental a/   Urban and
Pernambuco     Area      Project Produc- Industrial
Production  Production   tion at Full       Demand
Crop               Units           1975        1975        Development    mid 1980s
Manioc            '000 tons       1,575.0       352.8         58.1            215 b/
Beans             '000 tons         127.3        23.4          0.6             39
Corn              '000 tons         352.7        74.7          1.2             17.2 c/
Bananas          million units  3,234.0        714.0         232.0            856
Pineapples        million units      25.6        14.4          6.4             21
Tomatoes          '000 tons          99.7        59.0         40.0            140
Milk              million litres   189.7         93.8         11.9            103
Cotton            '000 tons          29.3         9.7         -0.1            n.a.
Other Vegetables '000 tons          131.5       29.5          80.7            122
Other Fruit       million units  1,092.3        110.9        109.9            217
a/   Increment, after allowing for increase in pre-project yields.
b/   Consumed as manioc flour.  Rural consumption of flour and manioc root is
large but figures are not available.
c/   Corn flour for human consumption.  Rural consumption and use as livestock
fodder accounts for the balance.
7.05      Traditional Foodcrops.  The State is practically self-sufficient
in manioc flour. The expected increase in manioc root production under
the project (58.1 thousand tons at full production) would be readily pro-
cessed by the numerous casas de farinha, which would also receive project
support. Manioc is the main root crop grown under the project. The cul-
tivation of many other root crops (such as yams, and arrow-root) would expand
to meet demand which currently exceeds production. Demand for beans, one of
the staple foods in the northeast of Brazil, is always good and project output
would easily be sold. With the expansion of livestock and increased poultry
and egg production in the project area, the demand for corn, one of the main
ingredients in various feed preparations, would steadily increase.
7.06      Milk.  Milk production in the project area has increased rapidly
in the recent past (14%/annum between 1971-77). Processing and pasteurizing
facilities have not expanded as rapidly, however, and may have difficulty
in absorbing incremental project production. Government, fully aware of
possible difficulties and that the potential demand for pasteurized milk
in urban areas exceeds current production, has already increased the process-
ing capacity of two factories and has initiated in-depth studies of the milk
production, collection and processing in the eastern part of the State.
Assurances were obtained from State Government at negotiations, that, before
December 31, 1979, Government would furnish to the Bank, for comment, copies



- 36 -
of the studies, together with findings and recommendations then available,
and upon completion with the final results and recommendations of the
studies. Assurances were also obtained from the State Government that it
would take all measures necessary to ensure that the milk processing capacity
in the eastern part of the State would be adequate to absorb the incremental
milk production in the Project Area.
7.07      Cotton.  The project area is a "cotton land" and has well estab-
lished cotton processing and marketing mechanisms. However, low prices and
falling productivity, together with new agricultural opportunities have
caused many farmers to reduce cotton production. Any increase motivated by
more favorable price circumstances, would be marketed easily.
7.08      Fruit Crops.  Fruit produced under the project are short-cycle
crops such as pineapple and passion fruit and long-cycle crops such as fruit
trees and bananas. Although pineapple is the major fruit crop under the
project, many other fruits would also be grown, mainly melon types. Pine-
apple production in the project area is expected to increase to about 21
million units annually at full development, all of which could be absorbed by
the local urban centers. The State's current pineapple imports from Paraiba
may be gradually substituted for by production from the project area.
Competition from other areas in the State is not expected since the areas
suitable for pineapple production in the vicinity of Recife are limited.
Banana production would supply the growing local and metropolitan urban
markets. Passion fruit and tree fruits are in constant demand by urban
markets and the fruit processing industries. Sweetsop production, a proxy
for such fruits as guava, soursop and papaya, could be absorbed without
affecting prices to producers.
7.09      Tomatoes.  Production in the project area is either for industrial
uses or fresh consumption. Most of the tomatoes consumed fresh are grown in
the eastern municipalities and the area of Limoeiro, while the tomato factories
in Pesqueira, Belo Jardim and Arcoverde absorb the bulk of industrial tomato
production grown mainly in the western region. The projected demand for
urban and industrial consumption in Recife and the Agreste would exceed the
expected incremental project area production of 40,000 tons annually at full
development. No major price effects are expected.
7.10      Vegetables.  Production in the State has expanded continuously
in recent years to supply the expanding markets in Recife and local urban
centers.  Farmers plant a variety of vegetables, but an unplanned expansion
of some could cause a temporary saturation of markets and affect producer
prices. Since the aggregate demand for vegetables has constantly exceeded
production in the State, the assurance of adequate markets depends largely on
an effective information system that would inform the farmer about crops in
demand and provide the marketing organizations with accurate and timely
harvest forecasts. With improved roads, reduced transport losses and an
improved market information system, it is expected that the incremental
production of 80,700 tons could be marketed without affecting normal fluc-
tuations in producers' prices.
Marketing and Prices
7.11      Most of the agricultural production from the small farmers in the
project area is marketed at the traditional weekly agricultural markets, and
through truckers/intermediaries. Small farmers have virtually no participation



- 37 -
in the minimum price purchase scheme, and direct Government involvement
started only recently with the Advance Crop Purchase mechanism. Administered
by CISAGRO, in conjunction with EMATER, the program provided some 1,200
farmers with working capital financing for traditional crops during the
1978 season. Crops such as beans are also purchased for specific Government
programs. Some farmers make use of on-farm storage silos for beans and
corn. Large Government-owned storage facilities in the area, with a total
capacity of 43,000 tons, are used for grain storage for the cattle/chicken
feed producing industries, as well as for cotton and sugar storage. Small
farmers use of these facilities is limited to stocks held by various
cooperatives.
7.12      The project would seek to increase the competitiveness of the exist-
ing system by improving on and off-farm storage (para 4.07), the marketing
capabilities of agricultural cooperatives (para 4.21), market information
services (para 4.22) and the road system (para 4.24). With greater competition
among intermediaries, and improved farmer awareness of market possibilities,
it is expected that the farmer would be able to improve his share of the final
retail price of his products. Prices offered for agricultural produce in the
project area are not expected to decrease in real terms. Additional on-farm
storage capabilities should help to reduce fluctuations in corn and beans.
Vegetables, whose prices are subject to a higher degree of annual variation,
would be sufficiently diversified so that prices at harvest would not go below
normal levels, which for some crops are around 60% of the average annual price.
Prices used in evaluating farmers' incomes have been adjusted to take these
fluctuations into account. The share of final retail produce prices which
remains with the producer varies substantially between the traditional corn
and bean crops, for which it is around 70%, and fruit and vegetables, for
which it is around 30%, due to better possibilities for storage and better
spacing of harvests for the former products. On average, wholesale margins
are smallest, around 20%, and fluctuate most widely during the year. Retailers
on average retain around 35% of the final price and farmers get 45%.
Non-Farm Enterprise Production and Marketing
7.13      Non-farm enterprises in the project area are engaged in (a) the
production of simple items such as furniture, tinware, ropes, ceramics, manioc
flour, jams and preserves, bread, clothes, and leather goods; (b) commercial
activities on a small scale; and (c) services such as those provided by
mechanics, welders and electricians. It is estimated that the impact of the
project would be to increase output from these types of enterprises by 25% to
30%. Principal outlets for production are the local markets held in municipal-
ities and the large regional weekly markets held in Limoeiro, Vitoria de Santo
Antao and Caruaru. The latter is one of the largest regional agricultural/
artesan markets in the Northeast. Intermediaries purchase ceramics and artesan
goods for which the region is famous, as well as jams, preserves, and clothing,
for distribution in the rest of the Northeast of Brazil. The Caruaru market's
location, on excellent North/ South as well as East/West highways, makes com-
munication with Paraiba, Ceara, Alagoas and Bahia, as well as Recife and the
Sertao, fairly easy. Increased demand for small non-farm enterprise products
is also expected to result from the growth in farmer incomes resulting from
project investment activities.



- 38 -
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Illustrative Farm Types
8.01      To reflect the variety of ecological conditions, 19 illustrative
farm models have been constructed to represent agricultural development for
project participants. They are based on field surveys and information
gathered by EMATER-PE and the state agricultural planning commission (CEPA-PE)
and represent four different farm types 1/ in five different micro-regions of
the project area. The principal objectives of on-farm development are to
incorporate underutilized lands into the farm system and to diversify into
new crops. On the average, the farm system of project participants would
develop as shown below:
With Project at
Full Development
Before Project              (about 10 years)
Average Based on                                  Total                        Total
Estimates for the 15,540    ha         percent   area,    ha         Percent   area,
Expected Participants      per farm   of farm    ha    per farm   of farm    ha
Farm area                   7.5         100    117,200    7.5         100    117,200
Area cultivated with
traditional crops a/      3.1          42     48,800    2.7          37     42,800
Area cultivated with
new crops b/                -           -           -    0.8         11     12,800
Improved pasture            1.9          25     29,200    3.8          50     58,200
Underutilized or follow    2.5           33      39,200    0.2          3      3,400
a/   Manioc, beans, maize, cotton, usually intercropped.
b/   Vegetables, fruit - cropped areas not comparable with table on page 33,
as most products are intercropped.
The assumed distribution of cropped areas and number of participants per farm
model is given in Annex 8, Table 1.
On-farm Operations
8.02      It is estimated that the financial rates of return to the 15,540
farmers participating in the project would range from 22% to over 50% (Annex
9). The estimates are based on analyses of the 19 illustrative farm models
(Annex 8). The details of farm development, farm operating results and cash
flows of three farm types (farms of 2.4 ha, 6 ha and 18 ha) are provided in
Annex 9. Costs in all analyses are the on-farm investments (e.g. land clear-
ing, initial soil preparation, soil conservation works, reforestation, estab-
lishment of permanent crops with a crop cycle over two years, pasture improve-
ment, purchase of livestock, small on-farm storage facilities, equipment,
tools, and small farm buildings) and the expected operating costs (including
establishment of two-year cycle crops) of the crop and livestock production
1/   Landless, 0 to 2 ha, 5 to 10 ha, and 10 to 50 ha.



- 39 -
activities. Prices for inputs, labor, and production sold were assumed to be
generally at prevailing local market prices, averaged over the past three
years. It should be emphasized that the models are purely illustrative and
allow for losses due to irregularities in the climate. The return in given
years will vary considerably, depending on rainfall and market trends.
8.03      In general, the financial rates of return are high.  This reflects,
for the landless and the smallest farmers, the low level of required invest-
ments, and, for the farmers owning more than 5 ha, the remunerative effect of
relatively small plots of fruits and vegetables. The illustrative farm models
are oversimplifications of development conditions in the project area. Rates
of return have to be high to induce the farmer to risk the innovation being
proposed. In an attempt to reduce the variability of the farmers' income, and
improve his capability to withstand the vagaries of the climate, livestock
development is being encouraged alongside the expansion in vegetable production.
Although margins from livestock development are relatively low, this type of
investment provides the small farmer with a more stable source of funds,
should his crop production be severely affected by the climate (Annex 8).
Non-farm Activities
8.04      Many farmers supplement their income by working as laborers in
other farms in the sugarcane harvest or in small-scale industrial or commer-
cial activities in the region. Thus, manioc root is processed into flour in
many small family operations; cheese and butter are made from excess milk;
and jams and preserves are made from fruits. Also, family members may work
in leather or lace as in Pocao, pottery as in Caruaru, or as clothing manu-
facturers in Santa Cruz do Capibaribe. The project seeks to support the
development of these off-farm activities with technical assistance and
research in order to further augment farmer income and the income of the
urban poor also engaged in these activities. Rates of return from various
illustrative microenterprises analyzed under this component varied from 40
to 86%, with the net income of the micro-enterprises increasing at least 50%
over five years (details are given in Annex 10).
Producer Income
8.05      As a result of the project, the estimated farm family income from
agricultural activities could increase from a weighted average of about US$757
equivalent to about US$2,130 equivalent at full development, in about 10 years.
The estimated income of all prospective participants is currently below the
rural relative poverty level in Brazil, that is, about US$330 per capita, or
US$1,650 1/ per family. "Before project" and "full development" income levels
(including the imputed value of family labor as a cost and the value of
on-farm consumption as a benefit) are summarized below:
1/   Assuming a family composition of 5.0 (in 1970 - 5.3).



- 40 -
Average   Before    At Full Development
Farm     Project   (in about 10 years)       Expected
Size     Family       Family       Per       Participation
In Ha    Income       Income    Capita a!   Number       _
(US$)        (US$)      (US$)
Non-owners  0-5 ha      2.3       499          999        200        1,403       9
Farmers     0-5 ha      2.4       436        1,438        287        6,486      42
Farmers    5-10 ha      6.0       782        1,796        359        3,281      21
Farmers   10-50 ha    18.0    1,498         3,773         755        4,370      28
Weighted average total         757       2,130         426       15,540    100
a/   Assuming a family composition of 5.0 (in 1970 - 5.3).
Although projections show that farm incomes may be at least doubled under
the project, they would only go above the relative poverty level for those
farmers having 5 ha or more. However, many farm families have additional
sources of income from working on other farms or in the sugar harvest and
from participating in small rural non-farm enterprises which gives the lower
income farmers the possibility of bringing their income above the poverty
line. Details of estimated farm incomes per illustrative model are given in
Annex 9, Table 6.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rate of Return
9.01        The economic rate of return for project activities relating to
agricultural production is estimated at about 22%. Project activities linked
only indirectly to agricultural productivity, such as improved health services,
rural water-supply systems, education and training, have an important impact
on the standards of living of rural families in the project area, but their
direct benefits are not readily quantifiable. They have therefore not been
included in the cost-benefit calculation. Detailed cost and benefit streams
are given in Annex 11.
9.02        The cost streams used in the rate of return analysis of agricul-
tural activities include all on-farm investments and incremental operating
costs (based on the phased aggregate of the different types of participants),
and all the off-farm investment related to agricultural development: (a)
during the five year investment period, extension, research, seed supply,
mechanization/dams, cooperatives, marketing, feeder roads, project admini-
stration and project evaluation; and (b) operating costs for the period after
project implementation, which include a share of continued operating costs



- 41 -
for a sufficiently large extension and research service to maintain project
momentum, maintenance costs for feeder roads, and gradually diminishing proj-
ect administration and evaluation costs, which terminate in year 10 of the
project. Overall, 88% of total project costs, without price contingencies,
were included in the cost stream for the analysis of agricultural production.
9.03      The benefit stream for the analysis of agricultural production
included the incremental on-farm benefits of the incremental crop and live-
stock production by project participants. It should be noted that some of
the project investments would have benefits not measured by the incremental
production of the 15,540 project farm participants. For example rural exten-
sion and agricultural research are certain to have demonstration effects
on other farmers in the project area, given the dispersion of project target
farmers located in 63 concentration areas distributed over the project area.
Also, road improvements would benefit not only other farmers, but also other
economic activities in the area, increasing access to public services, improv-
ing the penetration of extension services, farmers access to credit and
production inputs, and the marketing of valuable but perishable crops, which
would in turn enhance the likelihood of intensified diversification and adop-
tion of new techniques. Better roads and communications would also accelerate
the development of small enterprises. As part of the sensitivity analysis,
in an attempt to see what the impact of the "demonstration effects" mentioned
above might be, it was assumed that they would increase incremental net
agricultural benefits by 2% per annum, starting in year three of the project,
and leveling off after seven years. From year 10 onwards, the indirect
production benefits would be equivalent to roughly 14% of that of the 15,540
direct participants (or equivalent to another 2,200 full participants). The
results of this assumption are shown in paragraph 9.05.
9.04      Of the products produced in the project, Brazil is an exporter
of bananas, cotton, maize and beef. Projected farmgate prices for the
project were compared to border prices for these products, adjusted to take
into account transportation, insurance, handling and quality differences.
Prices were adjusted upward, where justified (for bananas cotton and maize)
to reflect the projected discounted border prices. Of those inputs used in
the project, urea and potassium chloride were adjusted to reflect the dis-
counted projected border price. Estimates for the utilization of the labor
force in the project area, using statistics on population and employment
from the 1970 census, place unemployment at about 40%, out of a potential
labor force of around 400,000 persons. In the rural areas, it is estimated
that around 30% of a potential rural labor force of 250,000 is unemployed.
Labor productivity is extremely low, however, and no one can be said to be
completely unemployed, but rather underemployed, as family and friends will
always guarantee the individual with some type of activity. Labor require-
ments under the project, an additional 9,800 worker years by full development
in 1989, would be more than provided for through the absorption of existing
and underemployed personnel from the project area and surrounding region, and
the labor force growth, over the project period. Population growth for the
State was 2.4% per annum, over the 1960-1970 period. There is a tradition of
high labor mobility in the area, with personnel moving to the Zona da Mata
during the sugar harvest, and back to the Agreste and Sertao for the cultiva-
tion of their own plots. The project area is served by the principal
highways connecting Recife with the interior of the state, increasing



- 42 -
the possibility of drawing excess labor from sources in the Sertao, the Zona
da Mata and the southern Agreste region. In order to reflect the underemploy-
ment in the project area, and the availability of abundant skilled rural labor,
the wage rate in the economic analysis was shadow priced at 50% of the average
market wage. Foreign exchange components of costs and benefits were adjusted
upward by 30% to reflect trade distorting tariffs, subsidies, advance import
deposits, export taxes and quantitative restrictions.
9.05      The estimated economic rate of return was not found to be especially
sensitive to changes in costs, benefits, or lags in farmer participation.
Several sensitivity tests were made, the results of which are as follows (in
percentages):
Best Estimate              22.4       Costs up by 20% and benefits
down by 20%:                   17.4
Costs up by 20%            20.1       Benefits delay one year:         20.0
Benefits down by 20%:      19.6       Benefits delay three years:    16.0
Costs up by 10% and
benefits down by 20%:   18.5        Inclusion of demonstration
effect:                       24.3
9.06      The economic return from project activities aimed at developing
small non-farm enterprises was also analyzed. Representative enterprises
such as carpenters, mechanics, jam and preserve making concerns, and family
owned manioc grinding houses were projected to increase sales some 20 to
30% over five years. The impact of the project-sponsored technical assist-
ance, coupled with credit available from local sources, would improve the
net cash flow from these enterprises by some 50% over five years after allow-
ing for a salary to the owner and the employees in his family. Rates of
return for the various micro-enterprises varied from 40 to 86%. Labor was
valued at its financial rate, as most of the employees were using skills
which are generally in short supply and were obtained through formal train-
ing or apprenticeship. Some 2,340 micro-enterprises would receive technical
assistance, coupled with local credit, during the project period of five
years. In addition, some 400 enterprises would benefit from various training
and technical assistance efforts of a more general nature provided by the
project. The benefits from the latter group are hard to quantify and have
not been included in the analysis. The net benefit stream reflects the
incremental benefits obtained by the phased aggregation of the 2,340 small
enterprises. The cost stream included all the costs of technical assistance
and research incurred under the project, with the various foreign exchange
components revalued 30% to reflect the shadow rate of foreign exchange, and
the costs of the various investment and incremental working capital items
used in the development of the enterprises. The rate of return for this
component was estimated at 38%. When the cost and benefit streams are included
with those of the agricultural production analysis, the rate of return for the
project as a whole increases to 23.6%.



- 43 -
9.07      In addition to direct benefits accruing to 15,540 project participants,
the social infrastructure components would have a definite beneficial impact
on the rural population, although these benefits are difficult to quantify.
The education and training activities would play a significant role in helping
to achieve project targets and to improve living standards of the area's popula-
tion. The improved water supply, health and sanitation services would also con-
tribute to welfare. Hopefully, the interaction between the three main groups
of project activities, agricultural, social and industrial, would lead to a
self-sustaining development process.
Employment
9.08      The expected development of agricultural activities by 15,540 parti-
cipating farmers should increase employment opportunities and improve cash
revenues from marketed production. On the basis of the proposed development
pattern, the project should generate on-farm employment opportunities for some
6,700 in year 5 of the project and 9,800 worker years at full development, of
which about 50% would be met by family labor. Ancillary jobs resulting from
the increased agricultural production are estimated at about 600. Based on
experience with the development of small-scale enterprises, the project would
create 3,700 new jobs at an investment cost of around US$1,500 per job, well
below alternative employment creation costs in industry.
Fiscal Impact
9.09      The costs (including contingencies) of the productive support compo-
nents focussing directly on the 15,540 farm families that constitute the target
group for the project (credit, extension, research and seed supply) would
amount to about US$4,530 per family, over the five years of project implementa-
tion. Investments in social and physical infrastructure, broader based agri-
cultural services and project management would benefit mainly the 40,000 farm
families in the project concentration areas, resulting in a cost per beneficiary
family of US$1,070. Project investments in support services for small non-farm
enterprises would cost US$1,310 per beneficiary enterprise. The impact of
project investments is clearly not confined to those beneficiaries mentioned,
but would have a broader influence extending to the one million inhabitants of
the project area.
9.10      The extent to which on-farm costs would be recovered in real terms
is difficult to estimate because of the current inflationary environment in
Brazil and the Government's policy of providing unindexed credit. Assuming
a continuing inflation rate similar to the average over the last three years
(41.8%), real recovery of on-farm investment costs could well be low. On
the other hand, a decline in inflation or a continuation of the gradual reduc-
tion in the size of agricultural credit subsidies (a process in which initial,
though still marginal, steps were recently taken by the Government) would
result in higher real cost recovery. Although diversification into more remun-
erative crops would probably enable farmers to bear the burden of positive
real interest rates for credit received, the Government has so far chosen,
particularly in view of the still low income levels of the target beneficiaries
for programs such as POLONORDESTE, to maintain a considerable subsidy element
in the agricultural credit component.



- 44 -
9.11      Following the five-year project disbursement period, project invest-
ments would give rise to additional recurrent costs to the Government in the
order of US$3 million per annum, decreasing to US$1.5 million in year 12.
These expenses would be incurred principally for rural extension and industrial
extension, but would also include continued operating costs of the improved
health system and education facilities. The additional recurrent expenditures
are expected, however, to be totally offset by additional revenues of roughly
US$7.2 million generated annually as a result of the circulation tax (ICM),
and the rural social security tax (FUNRURAL) which would apply to the value
of incremental production from project participants.
Environmental Impact
9.12      The project should have a beneficial environmental impact.  The area
under crop cultivation by project beneficiaries would increase moderately by
about 6,700 ha. or 13.7% (para 8.01). The cultivated area would, in general,
be improved as a result of intensified technical assistance and encouragement
to diversify into permanent crops and tree crops (about 4% of the farm area
of project participants), to plant trees on contours and to adopt cultivation
systems which would control soil erosion. The prevention of contamination
of public water supply reservoirs and bigger private reservoirs with schisto-
somiasis is adequately performed by SUCAM, and the project supports the expan-
sion of controls over other reservoirs, and attempts to reduce the chances of
water contamination by increasing the number of sanitation facilities.
Project Risks
9.13      The project's success depends on the total commitment of the man-
agerial staff of the participating agencies to implement a wide variety of
activities in a timely fashion and to coordinate and integrate their activi-
ties at local, regional and central level. The risk of not achieving adequate
interagency cooperation should, however, be lessened by the plans to involve
the POLONORDESTE Management Counsel more actively in project implementation,
to strengthen the PMU to nominate a full time project liaison officer in each
of the participating agencies and to require detailed agreements establishing
implementation responsibilities for each participating agency. Other risks
lie in the limited experience of the participating agencies in carrying out
large projects oriented toward low-income groups in rural areas, and in the
absorption capacity at the local level of such concentrated assistance efforts.
The preparation of detailed annual work plans with the participating agencies,
the dissemination of information, and the provision of additional consulting
services and continuous project monitoring and evaluation should help to
resolve problems that might arise in this respect. In addition there is the
risk of drought in the Northeast of Brazil. An "average" risk factor due to
inadequate rainfall during the main cropping season, based on data for previous
years, has been allowed for, and crop and livestock yields reduced 13% (para.
7.03). However, it is in the nature of work in this area that an extensive
drought can occur from time to time. Due to this and, for some crops,
unforseen technical problems, there is a risk that the expected yields would
not be attained. The wide range of possible crop diversification and of
farmtypes, the project experimentation and the intensified extension services
should help to alleviate the risks and to resolve the problems of these



- 45 -
types. Overall, the potential of the productive components to (a) increase
the value of agricultural production by US$35.2 million annually and the
small-scale industry output by US$16.6 million annually; (b) provide about
14,100 new jobs; and (c) improve the living standards of at least 40,000
lower income rural families (200,000 people), combined with the social and
physical infrastructure components, make the project risks acceptable.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Federal
Government that:
(a) it would maintain existing agreements with participating
banks, BB and BNB, to ensure their continued collaboration
in the execution of the credit component; that additional
participating banks could only be included after approval
by the Bank; project credit would be extended to the small-
scale farmers on POLONORDESTE terms and conditions; it would
advise the Bank promptly of changes in such POLONORDESTE
lending terms and conditions; and that project reimbursed
short-term credit funds would be made available for reappli-
cation under the project credit component (para. 4.10);
(b) consultants would be employed by December 31, 1979, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
EMATER-PE in project implementation (para 4.13); to assist
the PMU in carrying out data collection, studies and
developing manuals for water conservation (para 4.19);
to assist the DER-PE in the preparation of engineering
designs for roads (para 4.25); to assist the PMU in the
management of the project (para 4.38); and to assist the
PMU with land purchase credit and land titling studies
(para 4.39);
(c) consultants hired to assist SES and SEC in improving its
administrative structure, would be employed under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 4.32 and 4.35);
(d) it would provide adequate funding to assure timely and
effective execution of the project and adequate operation
and maintenance of the facilities and services developed
under the project (para 5.03);
(e) it would provide the Bank for review with the construction
standards, bidding and contract documents before the first
round of bidding on construction works for feeder road
improvement (para 5.05);



- 46 -
(f) by November 30 of each year, the Bank would be provided,
for review and comment, with the project work program for
the following year, that the review of the program by the
regional POLONORDESTE group would be timely, and that
the Bank would be advised of the approved work program by
January 31 of each year (para 6.03);
(g) it would provide the Bank, for review and comment, with:
(a) a quarterly progress report, including the results of
the monitoring exercise (para 6.06); (b) a Project Completion
Report, within six months after the final disbursement
(para 6.06); and (c) a Post-Project Evaluation Report,
within eight months after the final disbursement (para 6.07);
and
(h) it would provide the Bank with the audited statements of
the various participating agencies and their statements of
expenditure, and the audited statements of the participat-
ing banks and their lending under the project, within six
months of the end of each POLONORDESTE program fiscal year
(para 6.08).
10.02     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the State
Government of Pernambuco that:
(a) it would take all measures necessary on its part to ensure
(i) that sub-loans made under the Project would be made to
small-scale farmers, including sharecroppers and tenants,
having less than 50 hectares and (ii) that investment -
credit for livestock purchase would only be provided as part
of an integrated crop and livestock development plan (para.
4.10);
(b) it would maintain a fund in the Secretariat of Agriculture,
adequate to finance the acquisition at harvest time of
certified seeds produced by farmers under contract to DPV,
and that it would cause DPV to serve the needs of the
project beneficiaries with priority (para 4.17);
(c) it would cause CISAGRO to improve the operation of and the
maintenance sevices provided by the CARUARU workshop by
December 31, 1980; and to maintain nine tractors in opera-
tion in the project area, in addition to the tractors to
be acquired under the project, during the project period
(para 4.19);
(d) it would follow agreed upon guidelines in selecting coopera-
tives for project assistance, and that it would obtain
agreement with those cooperatives receiving project assist-
ance on administrative and auditing requirements, and on
the maintenance of adequate staffing (para 4.21);



- 47 -
(e) studies would be undertaken under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, to identify marketing problems of
certain agricultural commodities, and to improve municipal
markets (para 4.23); to investigate production problems of
small non-farm enterprises (para 4.29); to prepare Aesigns
and operating manuals for village water supply systems
(para 4.31); to identify manpower training requirements
and educational needs (para 4.34); to improve the adminis-
trative structure of the health services in the project
area (para 4.35) and to establish the baseline situation
for project evaluation (para 6.07);
(f) project feeder roads would be selected to support those
priority areas where agricultural activities are focussed;
any standards higher than minimum would be justified on the
basis of the incremental economic benefits expected; roads,
standards, schedules and methods of execution would be
reviewed and confirmed annually by the Bank, on the basis
of field reviews applying agreed upon criteria (para. 4.25);
(g) it would cause DER-PE to adequately maintain and renew main-
tenance equipment for project area roads, and that charges
for use of DER-PE maintenance equipment would cover opera-
tion maintenance and depreciation expenses (para 4.26);
(h) assistance from UNO would be provided only to small non-
farm enterprises with less than 10 employees, fixed assets
of less than 200 MVR, annual sales under 1,000 MVR, and
monthly owner net income of under 8 MVR; and that the State
Government would make adequate arrangements with the banks
to ensure the availability of credit for the development
of small non-farm enterprises assisted under the project
(para 4.28);
(i) it would cause COMPESA to submit for Bank approval before
construction started, designs for each rural water supply
system whose cost exceeded US$120 per beneficiary house-
hold (para 4.30);
(j) construction of schools and the rural education center
would be at sites selected according to agreed criteria,
using detailed site plans satisfactory to the Bank, to be
reviewed and confirmed annually on the basis of field
reviews (para 4.33);
(k) it would cause SEC and the municipalities to give priority
to the placement of project-trained school supervisors and
technical personnel, and prior to construction of project
schools, it would enter into agreements with the respective
municipalities, assuring priority in the placement of project
upgraded teachers, appropriate salaries for teachers, and
funding for the continued operation and maintenance of
educational facilities and services developed under the
project, with the State Government providing support in
financing recurrent expenditures generated by the project,
w'havrn npnAcc:rv (nnrn 4.34):



- 48 -
(1) the Bank would be provided, for comment and review, with
the results of the small non-farm enterprise studies
(para 4.29), the evaluation reports (para 6.07), and the
various other studies, when they become available, but not
later than (i) December 31, 1979, for the definitive project
evaluation program (para 6.07); (ii) April 1, 1980, for the
report on manpower training requirements and educational needs
(para 4.34); (iii) June 30, 1980, for the recommendations from
the land purchase credit and land titling studies (para 4.39);
(iv) October 30, 1980 for the proposals on improvements
in the administrative structure for health services in the
project area (para 4.36); (v) December 31, 1980 for the
studies and manuals on water conservation (para 4.19); the
results and recommendations for the commodity and municipal
markets studies (para 4.23); and the designs and operating
manuals for village water supply systems, and the details
of the training program for system operators (para 4.31);
(m)  it would arrange for timely acquisition and necessary
financing of any additional land or rights of way neces-
sary for project works (para 5.03);
(n) it would adequately maintain and strengthen the PMU and support
the other state agencies participating in the project (para 6.01)
that it would appoint qualified personnel to the PMU, and that
the Bank would be consulted should the incumbant project manager
or regional coordinator have to be replaced (para 6.02);
(o) it would enter into and maintain all such special agreements
as are necessary to assure full and active cooperation of
the various executing agencies; and that it would cause
agreements to be entered into between the various executing
agencies and the corresponding municipalities or community
associations to ensure adequate operation and maintenance
of project facilities and services, prior to the construction
of civil works for feeder roads where the agreement would
include the funding of an agreed maintenance program (para 4.26),
schools, health centers, water supply systems, communal demon-
stration dams, and municipal markets (para 6.04); and
(p) it would (i) provide the Bank, for comment, by December 31, 1979,
with copies of the studies currently in progress ott milk produc-
tion, collection and processing in the eastern part of the State,
together with any findings and recommendations then available,
and upon completion, with the final findings and recommendations
of such studies, and (ii) take all measures necessary on its part
to ensure that the milk processing capacity in the eastern part
of the State would be adequate to absorb the increase of milk
production in the Project Area.



- 49 -
10.03     Disbursement of funds for the following project components would
be contingent upon:
(a) For the construction of communal demonstration dams, that con-
struction pl2ns which include engineering designs, land specifications and
an evaluation of water quality and availability had been approved by the
Bank, the farmer associations had been established, the manuals on water
conservation had been completed, and the extension agents trained in water
conservation (para 4.19); (b) for the construction of marketing facilities,
that they were based on plans satisfactory to the Bank, and that an agreement
had been signed between the State and the municipalities to ensure proper
maintenance (para 4.22); for the feeder-roads component, that final agreement
had been reached on the full-time staff needed in DER-PE for component
implementation (para 4.25); (c) for the construction of village water supply
systems, that the designs had been approved by the Bank, and that the
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the system had been
assumed by COMPESA or a community association (para 4.31); (d) for the
construction of schools, and health centers, that satisfactory evidence have
been provided to the Bank of acquisition of the respective sites (paras 4.33
and 4.36); (e) that the proposals for equipment and staffing for the estab-
lishment of the institutional structure for providing land purchase credit
and/or land titling services were acceptable to the Bank (para 4.39); and
(f) for each and every component except the credit and management components
(paras 4.08 and 4.37), that the Bank have received satisfactory signed
agreements between the POLONORDESTE Management Council and the corresponding
executing Agency, delineating implementation responsibilities (para 6.04).
10.04     With the assurances and conditions, indicated above, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent with a
term of 15 years, including a three-year grace period.



- 50 -
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                            ANNEX 1
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Improved Road Characteristics
Class A          Class B                Class C
Approximate Kilometers:    180 km              290 km                480 km
Approximate Traffic
Levels:                    24 v.p.d.          18 v.p.d.             12 v.p.d.
Approximate Annual
Tonnage:                18,000 tons/yr.   12,000 tons/yr.         8,000 tons/yr.
Drainage:
Stream crossings:
-  small                build all          build all             build all
culverts          culverts               culverts
-  larger               bridge or                                improved or
paved ford         paved ford            paved ford
Longitudinal:
-  raise roadbed      ( eliminate sunken road platform )         only at culverts
( except in short-cut sections   )         and where road
floods
-  ditches            ( construct all longitudinal ditches required to keep)
( platform free of water during rainstorms             )
Geometric:
Platform:
-  width                6.Om - min         4.5m - min.           existing or
3.5m - min.
-  surfacing            5.Om full depth   3.5m full depth        at spot locations
tap~ering on both  tapering on both
sides             sides
Maximum grade             12% max.           12% max. desirable   existing
desirable         15% absolute max.
15% absolute max.
Minimum curve radius      50m min.           50m min. desirable   existing
desirable          30m absolute min.
30m absolute min.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Annual Phasing of Project Costs
(US$'000)
Percentage       PernenL
of Total        Foreign
Year 1"       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Total      Baseline Costs   Exchange
Credit
On-farm investment                       1,993.6       3,721.9      5,333.4      6,843.8      8,425.2      26,317.9          29.3             12
Incremental on-farm working capital   1,694.9         2,771.8       3,725.4      4,692.1      5,721.7      18,605.9          20.7             14
Production Support
Extension                              1,259.2      1,627.8      1,722.9       1,924.1      2,171.0      8,705.0            9.7              8
Agricultural research                     311.1        254.3        260.1        254.3        260.1      1,339.9            1.5              8
Improved seed supply                     243.0          43.5         43.5         43.5         43.5        417.0            0.5             21
Mechanization/multi-purpose dams         297.0         302.0         51.0         30.0         30.0        710.0            0.8             29
Cooperative society assistance           133.6         199.3        264.9        265.0        131.4        994.2            1.1              9
Marketing                                376.9         380.4        365.8        413.7        220.3      1,757.1            2.0              8
Feeder roads                           3,261.0      4,754.0      4,042.0       2,610.0        414.0    15,081.0            16.8             34
Small Non-Farm Enterprises               234.7        327.4         527.8        717.5        839.1      2,646.5            3.0              5
Social Infrastructure
Village Water Supply                        235.0        812.5        829.3        666.2        427.0      2,970.0            3.3             30
Education and training                   1,388.2      2,111.7         438.4        365.8        232.1      4,536.2            5.1             11
Health and sanitation                       534.7        529.2        237.4        227.8        160.6      1,689.7            1.9             17
Project Administration
Administration and Monitoring               650.5        610.5        640.0        598.5        598.5      3,098.0            3.4              4
Evaluation                                  193.8        193.9        107.4        107.4        212.4        814.9            0.9              1
Total Baseline Costs-                     12,807.2    18,640.2    18,589.3    19,759.7    19,886.9    89,683.3                100.0             16
Physical Contingencies-3                    919.0     1,323.3         993.7        754.4        354.1      4.344.5           4.8              16
Price Contingencies                      1,169.0       2,880.3      4,360.0      6,273.1      7,981.7    22,664.1           24.1-             16
Total Project Costs:                      14.8_92S^     22a=k3J      ;        L9gQ     a_28,7_    L                          1=30Q.1            16
1/  Year 1 of the project corresponds to the POLONORDESTE fiscal year of 1 April 1979 - 31 March  1910,and so on for subsequent years.
2/  In prices at time of appraisal (October, 1978), converted to US$ at Cr$19.15 = US$1.0.
3/  Physical contingencies based on level of preparation and availability of detailed plans for each aspect of each component, were applied
as follows: extension:      2% agricultural research   3'!.; improved seed supply 8 Z;   water conservation 11%;
cooperative society assistance  6 %; marketing 10%; feeder roads 15%;   small non-farm enterprises 5%;   village water supply 18%,
education 11%.;   health 8 %;   administration 5 %;   and evaluation 8%.
4/  Price contingencies were calculated based on the US$ baseline cost plus physical contingencies as follows, in annual percentage rates:
(i) civil works 15% in 1978 and 7% thereafter;  (ii) equipment 14% ini 1978; and 6% thereafter; Ciiil otbhx itema.  including
materials, salaries and credit:  7% from 1978 onwards.                                                                                                  X
5/  Percentage calculated on baseline costs plus physical contingencies.
February 1979



-  52  -
ANNEX 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
Page 1 of 4
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank          Quarter        Disbursed            Cumulative
Fiscal Year       Ending     During Quarter       Amount Disbursed      Balance of Loan
1980          Sept.30          0.0                   0.0                   40.0
Dec. 31          0.0                  0.0                   40.0
March 31         1.0                  1.0                   39.0
June 30          0.8                  1.8                   38.2
1981          Sept.30          1.0                   2.8                   37.2
Dec.31           1.3                  4.1                   35.9
March 31         1.6                  5.7                   34.3
June 30          1.8                  7.5                   32.5
1982          Sept.30          2.2                   9.7                   30.3
Dec.31           2.5                 12.2                   27.8
March 31         2.8                 15.0                   25.0
June 30          2.3                 17.3                   22.7
1983          Sept.30          2.0                  19.3                   20.7
Dec.31           2.5                 21.8                   18.2
March 31.        2.8                 24.6                   15.4
June 30          2.3                 26.9                   13.1
1984          Sept.30          3.0                  29.9                   10.1
Dec. 31          2.8                 32.7                    7.3
March 31         2.7                 35.4                    4.6
June 30          2.5                 37.9                    2.1
1985          Sept.30           1.1                 39.0                    .1.0
Dec.31           1.0                 40.0                    0.0



-  53  -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Disbursements Against Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
Budgeting and Funding
1.        Each executing agency would conclude a contract (convenio) with the
Conselho Director of POLONORDESTE, stipulating its obligations under the con-
tract, including objectives, physical targets and available funds during each
year of the project period (see para 6.04 of the main text). According to
POLONORDESTE guidelines, each executing agency prepares a "plano operativo"
which regulates the 'draw down' of funds (see para 6.03 of the main text).
The 'draw down' is made per trimester, and based on progress made during
previous trimesters (see also para 10.04 of the main text). The participating
banks are rediscounted by the Central Bank; EMATER-PE and IPA-PE are funded by
EMBRATER and EMBRAPA, respectively; and the other executing agencies are funded
by the Technical Unit of POLONORDESTE, which may hold back funds if progress is
not considered satisfactory.
Expenses to be Covered by SOEs
2.        Disbursements against standard documentation cover the procurement of
civil works (including A and B-type feeder roads and C-roads, which are con-
structed under contracts; schools; education centers; health centers; storage
facilities; and market places), vehicles, tractors, equipment, and consult-
ancies and technical assistance. These disbursements would cover about 25% of
the project expenses.
3.        For those works and expenses where full documentation is impractical,
the procedure of Statement of Expenses (SOE) would be followed. The SOEs
would be applicable for:
(a)   works executed by force account (water supply works by
COMPESA; and part of C-roads by DER-PE and small dams by
CISAGRO after Bank approval);
(b)   agricultural credit, extended under POLONORDESTE con-
ditions by BB and BNB;
(c)   project-financed operating costs of the PMU, the evalua-
tion team of the UFPe, EMATER-PE, IPA-PE, DPV,
assistance to Coops, extension service by UNO in the
project area, salary complements of full-time SEC-staff
in charge of the education component;
(d)   costs for studies in PMU, IPA-PE, EMATER-PE (as far as
related to market studies) SEC, and SES (as far as related
to studies to improve the administrative structure);
(e)   short-term consultancy .services in DER-PE; and



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
(f)   technical assistance and training expenditures in EMATER-
PE for the cooperative component and marketing component;
the technical assistance given by DER-PE to the municipalities;
the training by COMPESA of operating personnel of smaller
water supply systems; and the training expenditures in SEC
for project-financed staff training.
SOE-Procedure
4.        The SOEs would be summarized on Application Form 1C for the credit
component and on Form 1B for all other components.   An annex showing monthly
expenditures by each participating agency (balancete) would be attached to the
Form 1B. These annexes would contain a basic breakdown of the totals on Form
1B as follows:
(a)   personnel costs (salaries, wages and such);
(b)   materials (material de consumo) (office supplies,
gasoline, oil and such);
(c)   general services (third-party payments covering
utilities, short-term contracts and such), and
(d)   various operating expenses.
The procurement of permanent fixtures, equipment and installations would be
reimbursed on the basis of the normal documentation.
5.        The basic headings would be broken down in the same annex as to the
costs per location of work performed or expenses incurred, cost per job per-
formed (such as a specific road section) groups or types of beneficiaries.
Adequate cross-reference should be given to the underlying documentation.
Additional data required to facilitate proper control may be worked out during
implementation.
6.        General disbursement conditions are given in paragraph 10.04 of the
main text.
Internal Control by the Project
7.        The executing agencies have established accounting systems, audited
by the auditors of federal organizations (such as Central Bank, ENBRATER, and
EMBRAPA), the auditors of a central organization (such as CEBRAE for UNO), or
the General Auditors of the State of Pernambuco (SES, SEC, DPV, CISAGRO, and
COMPESA). The accounting systems are capable of maintaining separate project
accounts, and a full-time project coordinator within each executing agent will
assist in keeping the accounts up to date and maintaining separate accounts
for each major job.



-  55  -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
8.        The SOEs will be prepared monthly by the executing agencies and
remitted to the PMU through the project coordinators. After counter-signing
by the project manager and general coordinator of the Unidade Tecnica of
POLONORDESTE in Pernambuco, the SOEs will be sent to the Central Bank in
Brasilia. The Banks will send the application forms 1C for the credit com-
ponent directly to the Central Bank with copy to the PMU. Copies of all
applications are also sent to SUDENE. The basic documents of the SOEs will
be retained by the executing agencies.
9.        During this process, the statements are controlled at the various
levels by the responsible coordinators, and actual expenses are compared with
the estimated expenses specified in the annual project budget (plano operativo)
and project estimates specified in the "convenios." Physical performances will
be compared with project targets specified in the convenios. In case of doubt,
the Technical Unit of POLONORDESTE can rely on the services of "Tribunal de
Contas" of the State of Pernambuco, who would execute an immediate investi-
gation. SUDENEs auditing department also performs an internal audit in the
POLONORDESTE projects, and the Tribunal de Contas controls the proper procure-
ment procedures in the state institutions.
10.       The project coordinator in each executing agency would keep, in
addition to the basic documents, a file containing copies of the most important
internal control measures and instructions, such as:
(a)   administrative and accounting procedures of the agency;
(b)   indemnization rules, such as tariffs, per diems, and
allowances applicable to personnel working for the
project;
(c)   general control instructions, such as mileages allowed
and type of log books to be kept;
(d)   contracts used as a basis for calculation of expenses,
such as rental contracts, public services (water and
electricity) and tariffs; and
(e)   special requirements under the project.
He will also keep separate cost accounts of the component executed by his
agencies to be sent to the PMU within two months' after each fiscal year. The
PMU will retain a complete set of all project accounts.
Auditing
11.       The project accounts will be audited by the Inspetoria  Geral de
Financas (IGF) of the Ministry of Finance in Brasilia within six months after
the end of each fiscal year. The IGF would be asked to include in its audit a
special statement about proper execution of the SOE procedures by the
executing agencies and the PMU.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PEINAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
List of Executing Agencies
COMPONENT                           EXECUTING AGENCY          CHIEF, COLLABORATING AGENCIES
Agricultural Development
Extension Services                      EMATER-PE                  SENAR, IPA-PE
Agricultural Research                    IPA-PE                    EMATER-PE
Seed and Plant Production                                          EMATER-PE, IPA-PE,
and Distribution                      DPV                          Agricultural Cooperatives
Mechanization and Input Supply           CISAGRO                   EMATER-PE, COCANE
Agricultural Cooperatives
Production Support
On-farm Development Credit              BB, BNB                    EMATER-PE
Land-tenure studies                     P.M.U.                     CEPA-PE, INCRA, EMATER-PE
Small Non-Farm                          BB, BNB, BANDEPE-         UNO
Enterprise development credit
Storage-Marketing                       EMATER-PE/T.U.             COCANE, FECOMIPE, COBAL, SIMA
Storage-Marketing                       EMATER-PE/T.U.            GACEP, Municipalities
Assistance to Cooperative Societies    EMATER-PE/T.U.              COCANE, FECOMIPE, ASSOCENE
Water Conservation                       CISAGRO                   EMATER-PE
Technical Assistance Small Non-
Farm Enterprises                      UNO                        SENAI, SENAC, ITEP
Physical Infrastructure
Feeder roads                            DER-PE                     EMATER-PE, Municipalities
Water Supply                             COMPESA                   PIASS, EMATER-PE,
Municipalities
Social Infrastructure
SENAI, SENAC, PIPMO
cducation                               SEC                          Municipalities
SES/FUSAM                 FSESP, PIASS, INAMPS
Health                                   SES/FUSAM                   Municipalities
Sanitation                              SES/FUSAM                 PIASS, COMPESA, Municipalities
Organizational Support
Secretary of Planning,
Project Administration and Monitoring  T.U.                          Executing Agencies
Project Evaluation                      U.F.P.                     T.U. Secretary of Planning
Note:
Note: A glossary of abbreviations and acronyms is provided inside the
the front cover of this report.
1/ This credit is not financed under the project



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Organization Chart of the Prolect Management Unit
STATE POLONORDESTE COUNCIL
CONSELHO DIRETOR
SECRETARIAT OF PIANNING
l  ~~                                                                               ______ _    ____.______
EVALUATION TEAM                                                                   GENERAL COORDINATOR
UNIVERSITY OF PERNAMSBUCO                                                                 POLONORDESTE
*........................................ .............................. >                                                                                           OTHER POLONORDESTE
PROJECTS *
TECHNICAL UNIT (TU)
PRO.IECT  RANAGER
PROJ13CT MANAGE1MINT IINI
ASSISTANT PROJECT MANAGER                ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES                                                                                                               REGIONAL PROJECTMAGE.
HEAD MONITORING TEAM               .                                    ]_                               _                                                             [             CARUARU
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PMU)
.>    TECRNTCAl ASSISTANTS r_.
SMALL NONAGRICULTURAL              AGRICULTURAL                     PRODUCTION                     PHYSICAL                         SOCIAL
ASSISTANTS                     ENTERPRISES                   DEVELOPMENT                       SUPPORT                    INFRASTRUCTURE                  INFRASTRUCTURE                    ASSISTANTS
l   l                                                i        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ON- FARM DEVELOP-
EXTENSION                    MENT CREDIT                                                       hEALTH
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                RESEARCH                                                      WATER SUPPLY                    SANITATION
I  CREDIT AND    l    l         CREDIT                       SEED SUPPLY                 LAND TENURE QUESTIONS                 ROADS                       EDUCATION
PRODUCTION                     STUDIES                       MECRANIZATION                   STORAGE                                                                                   CREDIT AND
R|CCL SERVICES               Alto PaMeU,AgresteMerdiona, naaLTIPURPOSE DAMS NeMArteE.TSNG                                                                                                          SERVICER
l   l                                                l        ~~~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~    ~~~~~INPUT SUPPLY                |                   
|   SOCIA  SERVICS  |   */Alt. P.J.., Agreste Meridional, Zona d. Mata Norte.                                                                                                       mOILSRIE 



_ 58 _
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAYiBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Implementation Schedule -
COMPONENT / ACTIVITY                                    PROJECT YEAR
I       II       III       IV        V
CREDIT
On-Farm Credit
- Provision of investment and
seasonal credit                     __ _        ___
PRODUCTION SUPPORT
Extension Activities
- Office installation/equipment
-  Provision of extension services
- Training of extension agents
-  Training of farmers                   .                                          _
- Assistance to IPA-PE (research)
-  Assistance to DPV (seed production)
- Assistance to DER (feeder-roads)
-  Assistance to COMPESA (water supply)
- Coordination cooperative/marketing
activities
-  Consultant services
Agricultu-.al Research
-  Establish research team/equipment
-  Experimentation
- Divulgation of results
Seed and Plant Production
- Upgrading production centers
- Upgrading planning mechanism
-  Upgrading distribution mechanism
Water Conservation:
Mechanization/Input Supply
- Improvement Caruaru Workshop
-  Improvement Input Supply                                                               l
Multipurpose Dams
-  Studies, consultant services and
preparation manuals
-  Training extensionists                                                       l
-  Design demonstration dams
-  Establishment farmers association                         l          _
-  Construction Dams



- 59
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
COMPONENT/ACTIVITY                                   PRO..ECT YEAR
I        II       III       IV       V
Assistance to Conperative Societies
- Study restructuring cooperatives
- Assistance to implement
restructuring
- Administrative Assistance                                                          |
- Training Cooperative Personnel
- Education Cooperative membership                                                   l
Storage Marketing
- Storage construction at
cooperatives                                                               .    |
- Improvement Information System                                                .    |
- Improvement Product Transport       _                                              |
- Training Personnel                                          .                      l
- Special Studies                                                   .
- Market Construction
Feeder Roads
- Acquisition Equipment
- Training Municipal Personnel
- Consultant Services                 _
- Technical Assistance DER-PE to
Municipalities
- Construction Roads Class A
- Construction Roads Class B
- Construction Roads Class C
Assistance to Small-Scale
Scale Enterprises
- Technical Assistance to
Small Enterprises
- Upgrading Caruaru Office
- Establishment New Extension
Offices
- Training Extensionists
- Special Local Surveys/Studies                                          .
- Participation in Research of
Intermediate Technology
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply
- Engineering and Design
- Establishment Community
Associations
- Construction Water Supply Systems                                      .
- Equipment (local                                                       .
Equipment (regional)
- Training Local personnel                                                  __i



-  60-                      ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
COMPONENT/ACTIVITY                                    PROJECT YEAR
I-II              III        IV       v
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE (Contd.)
Education
- Construction basic schools
- Construction intermediate schools
- Construction rural education center
- Training instructors education center
- Training technicians education center                               l
- Training administrative personnel
- Training teachers/supervisors                        .
- Training rural promotors
- Technical assistance for SEC
- Studies of SEC/IICA                                                            _
- Study of demand of human resources
- No-formal training
Health
- Construction regional health center                        l
- Construction local health centers                                             l
- Upgrading local health centers                             l
- Training personnel
- Construction storage facilities
- Equipment purchase
- Technical Assistance Institutional
Improvement                                             l
Sanitation
- Installation of Sanitary Facilities
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Administration
- Organization of Management Unit
- Equipment Offices
- Consultant Services
- Supervision of Implementation
Monitoring
- Organization Mechanism
- Monitoring of Implementation
Land Tenure Studies
- Consultant Services
- Analysis Results of Studies
- Implementation of Acceptable
Recommendations
Evaluation
- R>qol1fne stuities            1/ 
- Annual Evaluation Assistance
- Post Evaluation
1/ From UFPe to PMU



-  61  -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIO1 AL
Monitoring of Project Impact
Principal Objectives                                   Key Indicator                                     Responsible Institute
GENERAL
1. Increase agricultural production               a) Production increase per crop and product            T.U./EMATER
b) Increase of area cultivated per crop                T.U./EMATER
2. Increase agricultural productivity             a) Productivity per ha, specified per crop             T.U./EMATER
(see also research, extension)                    and municipality
b) Productivity per labor-day                         T.U./EAMTER
3. Raise the income level of small-farmers   a) Average income of small farmers, per type                T.U./EMATER
of farm, and farmer and municipality               Municipalities
b) Percent of income derived from direct farm
activities, from off-farm agricultural,            T.U./EMATER
and off-farm non-agricultural activities,          UNO/Municipalities
per crop and municipality
4.  Raise living standards of small farmers  a) Family composition                                       T.U./UF.P/
b) Consumption budget composition                     participating
c) Rate of houses owned                               agencies
d) Rate of houses served with electricity
e) Rate of houses served with water
f) Rooms per house
g) Radios/televisions per house
h) Litteracy rate
i) Children/family in secondary education
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
1.  Expand sma.l-farmers use of institu-          a) Ratio between use of informal and                   EMATER/Banks/TU/UFP
tionalized credit, to facilitate                 institutionalized credit
adoption of new techniques, crop-            b) Number of small farmers covered in relation
diversification and crop expansion               to total number of small farmers
c) Amount lent to small farmers as percent of
total agricultural credit, specified per
crop and activity; municipality and type
of loan (investment or seasonal credit)
2.  To improve the accessability to credit   a) Average time required to grant a loan/agency  Banks/EMATER
for small farmers                            b) Cost of loan Der agency
c) Loans refused as ratio of loan applications             Banks
3.  To increase the effectiveness of              a) Debt service performance as percent of                  Banks
agricultural credit, and to involve              arrears for investment and seasonal credit
the small farmer into the credit-system  b) Rate of compliance with original credit                     EMATER
farm-plans
c) Rate of farms producing according to estimate,   EMATER
or sufficiently to service their debts out
of sale of farm produce
d) Rate of credit channelled through                  Banks/Cooperatives
farmers cooperatives
LAND TENURE
1.  Increase small scale and non-land             a) Distribution of land ownership per                  Technical Unit (TU)
owning farmers' production potential             municipality
by improving security of land-tenure         b) Proportion of farms with inadequate title                   TU
add facilities to establish a productive    per municipalty
unit                                          c) Trends of land market, per municipality            T.U./Municipalities
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
1.  Orientation of extension service to           Ratio of small farmers attended to total               EMATER-PE
small-scale farmers                             farmers attended
2.  Reaching the farmer at the farm level    Ratio of time spent with farm visits to total    EMATER-PE
available time of agricultural and social
extensionists (per municipality)
3.  Orientation of the extension service          Distribution of extensionists time to various    EMATER-PE
to farming systems                           aspects, such as administration, credit,
agronomic question, farm problems, social
problems
4.  Increase efficiency of the extension          a) Coverage of farmers per extensionist, per           EMATER-PE
service                                          category; credit, new technology and
management
b) Number of contact farmers per extensionist    EMATER-PE
c) Number of farmers per contact farmer               EMATER-PE
(or leader)
5.  Improve delivery of know-how                  a) Number of field farmer-days, per crop               EMATER-PE
and per activity
b) Average attendance of field-days                    EMATER-PE
c) Adoption rate of new technological packages   EMATER-PE
(see also research)



-  62  -                                               ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Monitoring of Project Impact
Principal Objectives                                   Key Indicator                                      Responsible Institute
AGRICULTURAL ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
1.  Improve productivity of crops, pasture   a) Rate of adoption of more productive varieties                   IDA-PE/EMATER-PE
and livestock in project area                 b) Rate of adoption of improved cultivation
techniques
2.  Introduce, test and adopt varieties and  a) Number of experiments per locality                                 IPA-PE
cultivation techniques more suitable          b) Percentage of successful experiments
to local circumstances
3.  Involve producer in research efforts           a) Distribution of experiments per farm type                    IPA-PE
and divulge research results to the           b) Number of visitors to observation sites                       IPA-PE
farm level
MARKETING
1.  Improve small farmers share of consumers Ratio of farmgate price to consumers sale price   t.U./CEASA/Cooperatives/
retail sales price                            per type of produce and municipality                             EMATER
2.  To provide on-farm and off-farm storage  a) Average on-farm storage capacity per crop                    EMATER/Banks/TU
facilities to small farmers                       for small farmers
b) Off-farm  storage capacity accessible for
small farmers per location, and per produce
c) Occupancy rate by small farmers products
(per crop)
3.  To tmprove market information                  a) Perceat of farmers reached effectively                    EMATER/Cooperatives
b) Rate Df excess of production in relation             T.U./CEASA/COBAL/EMATER
to demand at harvest time (per crop)                        Cooperatives
SEED SUPPLY AND PLANT PRODUCTION
1.  Satisfy demand for certified seeds             Ratio of coverage; tonnage of distributed;                  DPV/EMATER
certified seeds to estimated demand
2.  Improve quality of planting material,    a) Quantity produced                                                  DPV
and distribution                             b) Ratio of quantity produced to sold
c) New varieties introduced
WATER CONSERVATION,
1.  Improvement of tractor efficiency of           a) Number of effective hours per tractor                     CISAGRO
CISAGRO                                       b) Down time due to lack of demand                           CISAGRO
2.  Promote adequate and economical                Analysis of tractor and equipment output                   CISAGRO/EMATER
mechanization service                         projected to demand
3.  Promote adequate water conservation            a) Direct rainwater conservation                        EMATER/CISAGRO *
b) Small reservoir conservation                         CISAGRO/EMATER *
c) Reforestation                                             EMATER
* In cooperation with
municipalities and
COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES                                                                                         private entities
1.  To increase cooperative member parti-    a) Cooperative membership as ratio                             7.U./EMATER/DAC
cipation, particularly of small farmers           of total number of small farmers
b) Ratio of active members to total
membership of cooperatives
2.  To improve managerial strength of              a) Number of viable cooperatives as ratio                T.U./EMATER/DAC
cooperatives                                      of total number
b) Costs of cooperative administration as
percent of total turnover
c) Average turnover per member for id:puts
sold, produced, marketed and credit
SMALL-SCALE NON-AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES              handled
(non-registered)
1.  _xpand small- cale enterprise use of           a) Ratio of informal to institutional credit             UNO/BB/BNB, BANDEPE
institu:iona. .zed credit                     b) Number of enterprises covered as percent
of total existing
c) Amount lent to non-registered small-scale
enterprises as ratio of total credit to
small industries, specified per type of
*ctivity
2.  Increase che effectiveness of small-           a) Arrears for investment and working                    BB/BNB/BANDEPE
scale enterprise credit                           capital credit as percentage of total
outstanding.
b) Rate of compliance with original credit                      tNO
enterprise development plans
c) Rate of enterprises producing according                      UNO
to estimates, or sufficiently to service
their debts out of sale of products
3.  To improve managerial and technological  a) Number of non-registered as percent of                           UNO/T.U.
level of small non-:_,0stered enterprises    toral existing small industries
b) Number of small-scale non-registered                       UNO/T.U.
enterprises receiving assistance;
specified per municipality and activity
c) Number of viable enterprises as percent                      IUNO



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Monitoring of Project Impact
Principal Objectives                                    Key Indicator                                    Responsible Institute
SMALL-SCALE NON-AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES (Cont' d)
4.  Improve effectiveness of technical           a) Number of enterprises covered per extensionist              UNO
assistance                                   b) Time spent per enterprise assisted, until                   UNO
final stage
c) Success rate, as ratio graduated into self-                UNO
sustaining registered enterprises to enterprises
assisted, per activity and municipality
5.  Promote research and adoption of inter-  Number of enterprises adopting new technologies                 UNO/TU/ITEP
mediate technology                           as percent of total number
FEEDER ROADS
1.  Improve the year round accessibility         a) Average area served per km municipal road                 DER/T.U.
to rural communities, for transport              (per municipality)
of agricultural products, inputs and         b) Tonnage transported per Km/year                     T.U./EMATER municipalities
delivery of public services                  c) Persons transported per Km/year                       T.U./municipalities
2.  To improve level of maintenance of           a) Ratio of adequately maintained roads to             DER/T.U./Municipalities
municipal roads                                 total of municipal roads
b) Average maintenance costs per km/year of            DER/T.U./Municipalities
municipal roads, specified per class
WATERSUPPLY
1.  Improvement of health situation in           Reduction of the mortality and disease rate            SS/FUSAM/CONPESA/UFP
rural areas                                   in rural areas
2.  Supply good quality drinking water           Quality of water                                             CODPESA
3.  Increase of water supply to rural               Population covered
population
4.  Serving small industries and agricultural a) Industriec served                                            COMPESA/PSESP/
enterpriaes                                  b) Ratios of industrial, urban and rural                     EMATER
home consumption and agricultural
consumption
EDUCATION
1.  Improvement of school attendance of          Ratio of children attending school to total                SEC/Municipalities
basic education to 7fl                       of children in the respective school age
2.  Increase opportunities to receive            Attendance in series 5 - 8 of i- grade,
continued formal education                    and secondary grade
3.  Improve quality of formal education          Ratio of upgraded schools to total schools
4.  Increase opportunities for non-formal    a) Number of non-formal educational courses                SEC/Municipalities
education                                   b) Number of students in non-formal courses            SENAI/SENAC
as percent of total number in same age group
c) Number of non-formal students as ratio to
estimated demand
HEALTH
1.  To deminish infant mortality                 Infant mortality per area and per family                   SS/FUSAM
registered at Rural Health Post
2.  To cover 80% of priority group and           Control of (i) p  gnant women, breast feeding              SS/FUSAM
50% of other groups with primary           women, children below 1 year, children 1-4
health care                                 years, (ii) children 5 - 14 years and adults
3.  To cover all benificiaries of rural          a) Ratio of RHP referred, to health center                 SS/FUSAM
primary health care with medical and            attended patients
hospital care, when required                 b) Ratio health center referred, to hospital
attended patients
4.  To upgrade supporting health centers         Health centers fully upgraded physically and              SS/FUSAM
qualitatively
5.  To upgrade quality rural health staff    Percentage of staff fully trained                             SS/FUSAM
6.  To strengthen rural health adminis-          a) Days of supervision by regional staff of               SS/FUSAM
tration                                        local centers and posts
b) Number of sapervision per RhP per year                SS/FUSAM
c) Non-attendance due to lack of funds,                  SS/FUSAM
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                    staff or materials
1.  To develop and establish an effective    a) Time lapse between date of data used and                      T.U.
management system of rural development          completion of monitoring report
projects                                     b) Implementation rate, as ratio of quantities               T.U.
achieved to quantities estimated, per
component and subcomponent
c) Cost overruns per component and subcomponent             T.U.
d) Costs of administration as percent of project            T. U.
EVALUATION                                           costs of other components
1.  To develop and establish an on-going         a) Time lapse between dates of analysis data                UFP/T.U.
evaluation system, suitable to be               and evaluation completion
applied on state rural development           b) Degree of follow-up, as ratio of recommen-               UFP/T.U.
projects                                         dations incorporated in management policy
.- -- Am1 mAnns made



- 64  -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Agricultural Development
1.      Rainfall, rainfall distribution, topography and soil quality and
hence, agricultural production systems vary considerably within the project
area. Even within the three subareas a wide variety exists, mainly influenced
by specific small farmer communities. Inter-cropping (consortium) is a
commom practice adopted to reduce the risks of irregular climate conditions
and to maximize results in relatively short periods of adequate rainfall.
These consortia include the traditional crops of the project area; beans,
mandioca, maize and cotton. Similarly, mixed farming is widely adopted,
and most small farmers favor raising of livestock to reduce risks and to
hedge against persistent inflation. The vigorous growth of urban centers
and the increased means of transport and information triggered a growing
interest in dairy farming and diversification into cash crops such as fruits
and vegetables. As a result there are many production systems, which can be
grouped in four main types:
Average
Farm Size         Cultivated
Type            Ha             Area - Ha          Present Landuse
1          0 - 5                 2.4             Subsistance crops and cotton
2          5 - 10                6.0             Subsistance crops, cotton and cattle
3         10 - 50               18.0             Subsistance crops, cotton and cattle
4         Landless               2.5             Subsistance crops and cotton
The developing diversification in cashcrops is distributed over types 1, 2 and
4 and dairying most in type 3.  During preparation various (84) development
models were described for each type and each micro region.  Out of this number
nineteen were selected as illustrative farm models for the project area.  A
summary is given in Table 1.
2. Farm Models The extent of diversification will vary and in the end adapt
itself to those crops most suitable for special ecological islands (such as
carrots in Brejo de Madre de Deus and pineapples in Riacho das Almas) and to
developing markets (such as bananas for Recife, tomatoes for the agroindustrial
center in Pesqueira) and the introduction of semi-permanent crops (such as
maracuja and chuchu) and permanent crops (such as sweetsop and soursop). The
models should therefore be considered as illustrations of possible developments
rather than a firm estimate of project wide activities. It is also likely
that farmers will respond to variable demands and will adopt a crop-mix more
diversified than that shown in the models. It is not feasible to reflect in a
limited number of models all possibilities and therefore a choice was made of
proxy-crops, to represent similar produce, as follows: (i) beans for the variety
of beans grown in the area; (ii) mandioca for root crops; (iii) cabbage and
string beans for vegetables (iv) cucumber for a variety of Cucurbitaceae such as
squash,pumpkin, and melons (v) sweetsop for early bearing fruittrees. The
incremental production, however, will be based on this broader spectrum of new
crops. In Annex 9, illustrative models for a 0-5 ha, a 5-lOha farm are analyzed



-  65  -                    ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
in more detail. In addition to crop diversification, the project would support
the desire of small farmers to increase livestock productivity - natural pastures
would be improved, and existing herds developed to take advantage of the increased
carrying capacity. As mentioned in paragraph 1, small farmers see the development
of their herds as a way of reducing risks associated with irregular climate con-
ditions. Animal herds can be maintained more easily than investments in crops;
investments in inproved pasture can be recuperated; and in the last resort, the
animals can be sold. In addition, animals serve as a means of saving and provide
a reserve for emergencies, as they retain their real value fairly well, and are
fairly easily sold.
3.      Farm Development:  Under the project farm development would depend
principally on small farmers transforming uncultivated and under-utilized areas
into improved pastures, and on improved farm management. The improvements in
farm management would result in (i) the better timing of farm activities;
(ii) the use of certified improved seeds and better planting materials; (iii) the
use of appropriate pest and disease control techniques; (iv) the use of appropriate
cultivation techniques and fertilizers; (v) increased use of on-farm storage and
soil conservation techniques; and (vi) the use of better tools and equipment to
improve labor productivity. The development of livestock, as well as crops, not
only responds to the desire to seek the best defense against drought, but it also
makes more productive use of available land, and provides a part of the organic
manure, an important input in the projected farm models. As a consequence of
these developments, land rotation would be introduced after the farmer had reached
a higher level of farm management capabilities. The models would include an
allowance for fallow land. However, actual needs and use of fallow land will be
developed during implementation, as the farmer works out his ultimate farming
system. Details of cropped areas are given in Table 2 and details of inputs are
shown in Annex 9, Table 1. To achieve these objectives credit will be needed,
of which overall 59% will be needed for investment and 41% for incremental seasonal
credits (custeio). The required maximum credit levels per model are shown below.
Total Farmer Indebtedness, in MVRs -/
Annual Average of Illustrative Farm Models
Number of
Farm Type    Expected Project
by size       Participants       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Landless         1,403               12         10          10         9         88
0 - 5 ha         6,486               19         20          20        18         16
5 - 10 ha       3,281                40         53          54        50         47
10 - 50 ha      4,370                64         89          96        98         97
1/ The MVR (Major Valor de Referenca) is a reference value readjusted periodically
to offset inflation.  Its value in July 1978 was Cr$ 1,150.50 or abour US$60.



-  66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Livestock will only be financed as part of a mixed crop/livestock plan, and
since most farmers owning 5 ha and more, already have some cattle, the pur-
chase of coWs will in practice only be financed for smaller farmers. Financing
of cattle purchases under the project would be less than 1% of total credit
granted. In the models investments */ are also foreseen for plows about US$75.00,
tools and implements (US$65.00 to 225.00), soil conservation (US$75.00 to 250.00),
forestation (US$40.00 to 120.00), on-farm storage (US$150.00 to 240.00) and
better conservation of organic manure (US$150.00 to 250.00). Replacement of
tools for soil tillage and harvest are included in the cost of the current daily
wage, calculated at Cr$ 45.00 or US$2.35. It was assumed that the average family
group living on the farm would consist of 1 farmer and 4 dependants, while each
family would supply as family labor the equivalent of 2 adults, or 500 effective
labor days. The heaviest labor requirements for the project are in May, August,
and September, with peak requirements being met through the hiring of additional
personnel from the underemployed labor pool in the project area (see para 9.04 of
SAR). At full development, some 50% of the incremental labor requirements of
9,800 man-years would be provided by family labor. Credit would be provided to
finance up to 50% of the inputed value of family labor during the first few years
of development, where necessary, to improve a farmer's net cash flow. However,
farmers are reluctant to go too heavily into debt to finance family consumption.
4.  Crop Development   The farmers are mostly concerned to protect themselves
against the risks of crop failure, due to irregular rainfall. They will give
preference to crops and cropping systems most resistant to drought, to varieties
with a short-maturing period and to the inclusion of some animals in their
farmplan. Recommendations on production techniques have been prepared for the
major crops and crop combinations produced in the project area, including beans,
manioc, maize, cotton, carrots, tomatoes, sweet peppers, green beans, cabbage,
chuchu (or chayote-squash), pineapple, passionfruit, and sweetsop. Details
of input and yield assumptions are available in the project file in working paper
No. 2. The assumptions are based on the best available data from local farm
surveys and experimentations. The yield projections are conservative since
they are reached and even surpassed by some more progressive small farmers in
the project area. In general, new models will gradually be phased in into the
existing production system over a 5-year period. The initial years will be
used to introduce new crops, better seeds and improved farm management, while
in subsequent years more sophisticated techniques of, among others, fertilizing
and disease and pest control, will follow. In practice the introduction of new
technology will be adapted to the type of farmer, since existing techniques
vary, with the lowest level among landless farmers and the best amongst farm
owners of 10-50 ha, who sometimes have already advanced considerably. Soil
conservation, and water conservation, however, are very poor amongst all farmers,
and the project would emphasize the promotion of cultivation techniques with
better protection against soil erosion (such as contour planting, adequate
dry-farming techniques. The projected area cultivated by the various crops
and the projected yields are given in the main text (page 33 of chapter VII):
*/ Average cost per farm given in parenthesis.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERSNA3(NCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONEAL
Sosesay of Illustrated Farm Models
(Rotensism of Cropped Areas to Ha.)
LOCATTON                                    ~~~~~~~~~~SHARE CROPPERS OR RENTERS             FARMERS RAVING 0.5 HA.                          EARNERS HAVING 3-10 HA                       FARMERS HAVING 15-50 HA
LOCATION                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~(AVEREAGE FARM SIZE 2-2.50 HA)      (AVERAGE FARM SIZE 2.40 HA)                   (AVEREAGE FARM SIZE 6 HA)V                   (AVEREAGE FARM SIZE 15 HA)
SORBASRA I
Mosfutpalities:                                        Nr. 1 (437)              lear 0   Year NO   Nr. 2 (987)                 leaLr 5   year 10    No. 3  (529)              Year 0  Year1_0   Ho. 4 (462)               'fear 0   Yea  10
lbs. Iond e. Ftra EN-o, Gbyte. d.                      osso/eseet.               250        2300              ....o/bom/matoe   2.05      2.00       MasE-/bea..s/-Ie          3.00    3.00       Msniomlbea.../IOioe       5.00      5.00
Coite, Gravta, PoebosT-at1                                                               0.13      Maes./beams                         0.10       Tomatoes-                           0.30     Resaee-                              2.00
Choobr                     -        0.20      Tomatoea/rur,ob...                  0.10       Curobers                           0.30      Ymstoesr..    mbrs0 .40
Cisaysa                             0.20       Improvd pastur            0.60    2.00       Sweet peppers                       0.40
Fellow                    1.40       -        NaCura  pasture            2.40      -        Improved pastors          6.00    10.00
Fallow or trees            -       0.40      Nataral pastors           4.00       -
Milk oow.                 S        1         Rot used                  3.00       -
Read of rattle (ASU.)   2.2        2.8       Fallow or trees            -        0.20
MiEk Cow                  4         6
Reeds of rattle (ASU.)  0.6        14.8
SUBAREIA !I (Ceeter)*
Nien MosfuOpalEtlsa:                                   Nr. 5 (55)                                    N-r 6. (210)                                    Nio...7. (130)                               No. 0 (172)
Riarbo des Almas, C-m-r, smd                           Cottor/Mair-/Bemo         2.00      2.00       Matobmsmle                1.00      1.00      Masioe/bee..s/malse        3.00    2.00       Maslo-/br..../eaiea       6.00      2.00
Sertiom   of:  Toritano, pre.i                         Sweet peppers!                                Cotton(Mitmebean           1.01     0.90       Pi n.apple/bea./.a. or -             .90     Cottoo/males/bea..         1.00      0. 80
Ntguelledur, S1gadleho                                 strOng beams             -        0.20    FPiseapple/bo..../-.J.rr   -          0.30       Improvd pastors             -       3.00      Ptneappla/be..../mmntor   -         1.40
or. trees             0440       -         Natural pasture           3.00      -        Improved pastors          6.00    12.00
Milk rows1                                   Fallow or trees.           -        1.10
Heads of rattle (AlU.)  2.2        4.4       Milk rows                 4         6
Reads of rattle (A.U)   9.6        14.8
SUBRESA II  (lost. N-rtb East and Sarb)                  Sr- 9 (317)                                    N0..10  (2690)                                 No. 1t10  (1172)                             Ru. 12 (1472)
NaGs M-sOipallties:                                    Cottor/mai.e/b...s        2.50      2.30      Maaioo/baa.s/s,aliee       1.00     1.00       Nmbou./bea..s/malee        2.50    1.50      Maslor/be..../maiee        5.00      5.00         -
BO...rroS,  RBejo dm Mdre ds SD-u,                     Iabbage/vegetebl-a         -        0.10      Iotooletss                 1.00       -        Ortr/ou/s,a                1.00    0.50      oorooeubse                 1.00      1.00
Caruarm.  Liu-ie-, Our C-at-0,                                                                     Sw..etsop (males/beans).            0.50       Swesp(ae/em)                -      0.50      Cabbages/-egetabRe                  0.75
Surobim. TaquaritigoH  do  Hurts                                                                   B.sasas (beams 1st ye.,) -          0.50       Banama  (beans 1st Fear) -         0.50      Ranamas (1st year beans).            0.50
lororts                             0.30       Carrts                             0.30      Fass.Oos Fruit             -        0.40
lUsed                     0.40       -         Improved pastors          1.00    2.50       Improved pasture          6.00    10.00
Fallow                              0.10       Natural pasture           1.50      -        Natural paatur-           6.00       -
Fallow or trees            -       0.20      Fallow or trees            -        0.35
Mlilkow -             .   I                  SHltlkuows                4         6
Head of rattle (AlU.)   2.2        3.2       Head of rattle (AlU.)   9.6        14.8
SUBAREA II (W-ts, Nortboest)                             No., 5 (.323)                                 Nr..l1  (1203)                                  Som 14 (600)                                 No. 15 (000)
Male. Stjsiupslitiea:                                  Cotto/Maiee/b.on.         2.00      2.00      Maoiou/bean/vales          1.00      1.00      aMlor-/bean../mai.e        1.00    1.00      Mafrbasmfe                 3.00      3.00
Jataubs, Vorttemle, Su1gadihbo                         Iwet pPp-er/g-ea  beus              020       Cott-n/maioe/b....        1.00      1.00       cottvu/n -leeb.a..         1.00    0.60      Cottru/maio/be..m.         1.50      5.50
To_ ta-,  rIet boor do Capiburlbm,                                                                   Tomatoes/-uuber-            -       0.10       Toaosuumea                  -       0.20     Mamlor                      -         -
Santa Maria de Cambuo                                                                                Inward                    0.40       -         Improvd pastnre            1.10I   4.00      Tometoeu/strimg 'as         -       0.50
Fallow or trees            -       0.30       NatoraI pastur             3.00      -        Improved pastors          6.00    13.00
Fallow                     -       0.20      MaCweal RanCors           7.50 
Milk row                  1        2
Head of rattle (AlU.)   2.0        4.8       Milk ros4                           6
Reed of rattle (AlU.)   9.3        13.4
OSUIARO. Ill                                             N.. 16L  (376)                                Or. 17   (1396)                                Hr, 18  (850)                                 Sr- 10'  (1373)
MuuOuiplIOtle-                                         Mamior/voioe/be.u.        2.50      2.00      NuM-u/beans/vml-           1.40     1.40        alrben/ao                 1.50    1.50      Maoirr/beass/mal-          3.00      3.00
Alagoimhe,BrIO Jardim, Corboeitlnba.                   T-mtues/utrimR beors    -           0.20    CIot-o/miee/beoms           0.60      0.50       Cottoo/maiee/be...         1.30    1.10      Cottom/maiee/b.a..         2.00     2.00
laproir-o  Fu-o, Fesosira, OSoharo,                                                                  Tooe/rumrs                  -       0.15       Nuess  ~pepprs                               Tomatoe../strisg beao       -       0.40
Sao 3-mb  do lU., T-elibs                                                                            loosed                    0.40       -           utriug beans              -      0.40       Sweet pepper               -       0.40
Fallw1 o  trees            -       0.25        Improvd pasture           1.20    3.00       Improvd pasture           6.00    10.00
NatoroI pasture           2.o0      -        EaturoI pastur            7.00       -
k00rw                            2         Fallow or trees                     0.20
Head of rattle (AlU)    2.2        2.4       MIlk ros4                           6
Head of -nttle (A.U 5   9.         14.08         
o  Farm devalupreot, farm operatOr  reslts ard roh flows are give  in Amman No. 9,                                                                               FIGURES IN PAPENTHESS INDICATE4 NUMBER OF ESTIMATED FROJECT PARTICIPANTS
io Toblo 2,  for No. 6 io TbAle 3,  ro- No. 11; sod Ir Table 4, for No.19
1/  buoho or rhayote, a bi-noso1 orop, is a loraI gourd, used as vegetable



BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Input and Output Coefficients per Nectare
(for new crops - vegetables and fruits - the situation is given at full deveiop-nt)
-    Manioc----         -__Beans- ----    -----Maize----    ---aCotto-----
Pre       Full        Pre        Full      Pre       Fu11       Pre      Fu11                                                                 String       Sweet                             Seeet   Passion
Item            Unit          Project    Dev.        Project    Dv.    Project    e            Project   Dev.    Pineapple   Banana   Chuchu           Tonatno    Cocu.ber   Beans        Peppers   Cabbages   Carrots    sop           Fruit       Pasture
INPUTS
Labor-/        an/days         54-70     64-104         6-8         12      6-74       11-32      32        32       49-61          95       45-73        162         142          135        140      126-135        452         93       75       16(4510/)
Seeds            kg              -          -           20          20       10          10       15        25          -           -           -         0.5         1.-           90         1.         1            6          -        -         412/
Plants        000 units          4          4            -           -       -           -         -          -        13          0.65          b5        -           -            -          -           -           -        450       650
Chenical
fertili.er       kg              -          -            -           -       -           -                   -       300-/'        430-/       250*   700-1,000*                      7/      300-/    300*         1,500*      800R      900-2
Qrganic                                                                                                                                 0
fertilicer       ton             -                                    73-                                    - 771/                              2-/       10          -                        -         -             8          410/
Line              ton            -          -             -          -       -           -         -          -                       -                                                         -          -            2
Insecticides   kg/l              -         1-41/         -          125/                           1       1-3                       3                       5          8             8          8         5            2         18       12
Fungicides      kg/l                                                                     -         -          -                                 -            7          2             2           2        -           13          -        2
Fornioides      kg/l              -        1-3-/          -         1-25/                1         1       1-2         3-4            -         -            -          2             2           2        -             1         2       -         -
Herbicides      kg/l              -                       -                   -          -         -          -                       -         -            -          -             -           -        I             2         -       2         -
Draft sninal   hour               -         56-/           6/          6/       6/        6/       -         50         56-           -         50-         50             6                      -       14             -        5O -O/             -
Tractor         hour              -         -                                                      -          -         -             710/                   -                        -          10        -           10          -      15         710/
Stakes/poles/
posts       000 units          -                                                                 -         -          -            -           5          3           _             _          3        -             -                  I         0.1
Sack bones      units            -          -            8           8       10          10       25         25        200            -         50        200         100            50         50        100         200        100      50         -
Wire             kg                                       -                   -          -          -         -         -             -        100- -                    -                        -        -             -               100        501/
Br.ds            kg               -         -             -          -       -           -         -          -         -             -         -            -          -             -           -        -            -          -       -        1510/
YIELD-3            ton             11.2       15.4          -           -       _          -          -         -         -            12.4       -           22        8-10           4-6         4-6     10-16       18-22         -      6.35         13/
kg              -         -            530        630     570         710      340       460          -             -         - 
000 fruits         -                                                                                   18-20fE/        -       45_99..J/                                                                          26-30      -         -
j/   Labor should be evaluated for the total consortiun, such as nanioc/beans/aaioe, and cotton/beans/saize and pineapple/beans/oanioc.  Most labor imputed to main crops:  anioc-cotton-pineapple.
j/   Rupplied by internediaries, nostly and used in rotation.
3/   Average of yields obtained in various production systems.
4/   Once every two years.
5/   Variation under various  consortium" systens.
6/   Land preparation included in preceding crop, or manioc.
7/   Fertilizer obtained fron preceding crop, or oanioc.
8/   Once every three years.
9/   200 kg As. 8ulphate, 130 kg SRper, 100 kg Potasiso Chloride.
10/   At year of planting or establishing.
11/   Only if not rotated with tomatoes.
L2/   150 kg Urea, 250 kg Dolomite, 100 kg Potassium  Chloride, 400 kg Soper.
U/    1.2 AU-carrying capacity, however with additional feeding.
14/  During two harvest years in three-year cycle.
Pertilizer formula adapted to circumstanees.
February 1979



-~ 69   -ANNEX 9
Table 2
Page 1 of 5
Farm Model 6, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and Cash Flow Projections
Model Nr. 6 (See Annex 8, Table 1)
Subarea II
Farmer havin2 0-5 ha (number of participants 210)
A.  Farm Development (in ha)                           Year
CROPS               Refa-re-
Project         1      2      3       4      5        6
Manioc/beans/maize           1.00         1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00
Cotton/maize/beans           1.00         1.00   1.00   0.90   0.90   0.90    0.90
Pineapples(preceded by
beans/manioc)                -           0.05   0.10   0.15   0.20   0.25    0.30
Fallow or trees               -            -      -      0.10   0.10   0.15    0.20
Not-utilized                 0.40         0.35   0.30   0.25   0.20   0.10       -
Farm area                    2.40         2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40    2.40
B. Farm Calender
Month                   J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D
0.50 ha               manioc          beans and maize      manioc 1st year
| 0.50 ha                                     manioc 2nd year
0.90 ha               no crop         cotton/beans maize    'cotton           no crop
0.30 ha               no crop         beans and Pineapple  1st year               year
pineapple 2nd year, manioc 1st year
l____________________    man  oc        pineapple   3rd  year



NE BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCC RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
TYPE mu
(1I CRI
------------------------- - - ------------------------------------------- CALENDAR -----------------------------------
1978     1979     1980     1981      1982     1983     1985      1948     1993
(BASE YR)
h%ITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALue                               17,643   17,882   18,208   18,447   18,774   19,013   19,143   19,317   19,317
= TOTAL INrLOW                                17,643   17,882   18,208   18,447   18,774   19,013   199143   19,317   19,317
-   wASTE AND LOSS                             2,294    2,325    2,367    2,398    2,441    2,472    2,489    2,511    2,511
-   nN-FARPA CflNSJMPT ION                     3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732
= NET 1iFLJW                                  11,617   11,825   12,109   12,317   12,601   12,809   12,922   13,074   13,074
91RECT PROJUCTION COST                       459      459       459      459      459       459      459      459       459
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  459      459       459      459      459       459      459      459       459
- NET FARM CASH FLOW                          11,159   11,367   11,65G   11,858   12,142   12,350   12,464   12,615   12,615
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732             0
+ NON-PRODUCT10  OUTFLOW                       3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732    3,732
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST               6,930    6,930    6,930    6,930    6,930    6,930    6,930    6,930    6,930
' NET FARM BENEFIT                             7,961    8,169   .8,453    8,661    8,944    9,153    9,266    9,417    9,417
00 
mx
0
'Jh
Ln
---------_------------------------------------------------------------__-----__---------------------------------------------



NE BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANhUAL FARM BUDGET
TYPE sIX
(IN CR)
------ - ----------------- -  - ------------------ ---------------- CALENDAR ------------------------------
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982     1983      1985     1988      1993
(BASE YRI
_____    _    ________________________ ________________ ---------------__ __ -------------------------- ____ -___ _  __ _
WITH PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                               17,643   19,481   24,405   28,064   30,060   33,414   37,995   38,100   39,939
=     TOTAL INFLOW                            17,643   19,481   24,405   28,064   30,060   33,414   37,995   38,700   39,939
-   WASrE AND LOSS                             2,294    2,533    3,173    3,648    3,908    4,344    4,939    5,031    5,192
-   UN-FARM CONSUMPTION                        3,732    6,146    7,209    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272
= NET I4FLOW                                  11,617   10,R03   14,023   16,143   17,880   20,798   24,7F3   25,396   26,474
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       459    3,648    3,722    3,467    3,491    3,566    3,568    3,568    3,568
INVESTMENTS                                    0    7,591    1,437       631    1,262    1,262    1,262    1,262    1,262
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  459   11,239    5,159    4,098    4,753    4,828    4,830    4,830    4,B30
N hET FARM CASH FLOW                          11,159      -436    8,864   12,045   13,127   15,970   19,953   20,566   21,644
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        3,732    6,146    7,209    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272
* NON-PRODtETION OUTFLOW                       3,732    6,146    7,209    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABCR COST               6,930    6,955    7,115    6,959    7,029    7,166    7,344    7,344    7,344
= NET FARM BENEFIT                             7,961   -1,245    8,958   13,358   14,370   17,076   209881   21,494   22,572
W ID 
OI I 
U1
________________- __--__________--________________________. _____________________.



NE BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
TYPE SIX
(IN CR\
------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------- CALENODAR ---- - ------------- -                .-----
1978     1979      1980      1981      19%2      1983      1985     1988      1993
(BASE YR)
INCREME'4TAL
GROSS VALUE                                       0    1,599    6,196    9,616   11,286   14,401   18,851   19,382   20,621
= TOTAL INFLOW                                        0    1,599    6,196    9,616   11,286   14,401   18,P51   19,382   20,621
-   .ASTE AND LOSS                                    0       208      806    11250    1,467    1,872    2,451    2,520    2,681
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPT ION                              0    2,413    3,477    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540
= NET IJFLJW                                          0   -1,022    1,914    3,826    5,279    7,989   11,861   12,323   13,401
DIRECT PROI)UCTION COST                           0    3,189    3,264    3,009    3,033    3,107    3,110    3,110    3,110
INVESTM4ENTS                                      0    7,591    1,437        631    1,262    1,262    1,262    1,262    1,262
- TnTAL OUTFLGW                                       0   10,780    4,701    3,640    4,295    4,369    4,372    4,372    4,372
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                                  0  -11,803   -2,787        187       984    3,620    7,489    7,951    9,029
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                               0    2,413    3,477    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540                 '
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                              0    2,413    3,477    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540    4,540
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                      0        25       185       29        99       236       414       414      414
= NET FARM BEN4EFIT                                   0   -9,414       505    4,697    5,425    7,923   11,615   12,077   13,155
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 52.50 X.
I(D P-t1
m   P4
0
Ln
- -- -- --- - - -- -- - - - - - - --- - - -- - - - - -- -- -  -.-- - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - -- - - - --- - -- - - - - - - -- - - -- - -- - - - - - -



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-AGRESTE
FARM TYPE SIX
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
.. ....................... .... _ _._ _ -- --- --- .-.                                  --------------------------------------------------------------------
0         1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9        10        12
(]:.   CASH INFLOW:
I  tJALE OF PROIDUCTION                     11.6      10.8       14.0      16.1      17.9      20.8      24.8      24.8      24.9      25.4       25.4      25.9
2  INVESTMENT 1/ ...Ln.  (:L00/ OF 5)            0      7.6       1.4         .6       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3        1.3
3  SHORT TERM 2/  Ln.               (6)         .5      7.1       5.5       4.2        3.5       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6        3.6
4   TOTAL INFLOW               (1+2+3)       12.1      25.5      21.0      20.9      22.6      25.6      29.6      29.6       29.8      30.2      30.2      30.7
(11 )   CASH OUI'FLOW:
5  INVESTMENT COST                              0       7.6       1.4         .6       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3        1.3
6  OPER-ATING COST                              .5      31.6  '    3.7       3.5       3.5       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6        S4.6
7   TOTAL. OUTFLOW                (5+6)         .5     11. 2       5. 1      4. 1      4.8       4.8       4.8       4.8       4.8       4.8       4.8        4.8
(:I'.I  NET CASH FlOW:
8   NETI' CASH FLOW              (4-7)       11.6      14.3      15.9       16.8     17.9      20.8      24.8      24.8       24.9      25.4      25.4      25.9
(IV)  DEBT SERVICES:
9  TINVEST'. LOAN PRINCIPAL  PMTr.              0         0          0         0       1.0       1.3       1.5       1.8       2.1       2.5       1.2        1.3  
10 'INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST                    0         .4        .8        .9       1.0       1.1       1.1       1.0       1.0         .9        .8        .8   0 & 
L1 SHORT' TERM LOlAN INTEREST                  .0        .4        .3         .2        .2        .2        .2        .2        .2        .2         .2        .2
12 SHOR(RT-VT'. LOAN PRTNCIPAL  PMT.           .5       7.1       5.5       4.2       3.5       3.6        3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6        3.6  
13  TOTAL. DEBT SERVICE (9 TO :12)             .5       7.9       6.6       5.3       5.7       6.1       6.3        6.6       6.9       7.1       5.7       58    0
t.
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
1.4  (C'OSH BALANCE             (8-13)       11.1       6.4        9.3  .11.5        12.2      14.7      18.5      18.2       18.1      18.2      19.7      20.1
. _ ...  .. . ._.. .....  ....  ...... _.   ....   .........I... ....  ... -  ...   ...  ....  ....  ...._ ..  - - - - - - - - - -- - --------- - - - -. - - - - - - -..-_ - - - - -_.-__-_ - -_ -_ -_ - -_ -__-_ - -_ -__- - - -..- -_ -__-_ - -_-__-_  _ __ _  _ 
j  Investment loan on average terms of 9 years with 3 years grace. at 10% interest.
2/  Jnterest for both loans is 10%, the POLONORDESTE rate.
- Short term loan finances 50% of imputed family labor value in yr. 1, 25% in yr. 2, 10% in yr. 3, plus purchased inputs.



74  -                            ANNEX 9
Table 3
Page 1 of 6
Farm Model 11, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and Cash Flow Projections
Model Nr. 11 (See Annex 8, Table 1)
Subarea II
Farmers having 5-10 ha (number of participants 1,172)
A. Farm Development
Before                       Year
CROPS               Project         1       2      3       4      5
Manioc/beans/maize             2.50          2.00   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50
Cotton/maize/beans             1.00          0.80   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50
Bananas 1/                      -              -    0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50
Sweetsop 1/                                  0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50
Carrots                         -            0.30   0.30   0.30   0.30   0.30
Improved pasture               1.00          1.00   2.50   2.50   2.50   2.50
Natural pasture                1.50          0.40   0.20   0.20       -     -
Fallow or trees                 -              -     -       -     0.20   0.20
Farm area                      6.00          6.00   6.00   6.00   6.00   6.00
B. Farm Calendar
Month                 J    F   M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D
0.75 ha            harnioe   l   beans and maize              manioc 1st year
0.75 ha                               manioc 2nd year
0.50 ha            no crop       cotton/beans/maize           cottoni no crop
0.50 _             no crop       beans/maize/bananas          bananas 1st year
bananas 2nd  and following years
0.50 ha            no crop       sweetsop/beans/maize         sweetsop lst year
sweetsop      sweetsop/beans/maize         sweetsop 2nd year
sweetsop 3rd and following years
0.30 ha            no crop              carrots                no crop



~ir iRRA7 1
PFRIIAMBUICC RIRtAL DFVrLnPMFNT PRO.JFCT - AGRESTE srTFNTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
TYPE ELEVEN
(IN  CRI
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR -----------------------------------
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1985      1988      1993
(BASE YR)
ITHOUT PRCJECT
GROSS VALUE                                 41,415   41,971   42,744   43,299   44,181   44,736   44,953   45,497   45,497
TVTAL INFLOW                                 41,415   41,971   4?,744   43,299   44,181   44,736   44,953   45,497   45,497
WASrE AAD) LOSS                              5,384    5,456    5,557    5,629    5,743    5,816    5,844    5,915    5,915
ON-FARM CTINSUMPTION                         5,384    5,384    5,334    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384
NET IdFLOW.                                  30,647   31.131   31,803   32,286   33,053   33,536   33t726   34,199   34,199
DIPECT PRnDcJTION COST                      6,911    6,911.    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911
HIRED LABOR COST                                 1         1         1        1         1         1        1         1         1
TOTAL OJTFLOW                                 6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911    6,911
NET FARM CASH FLOW                            23,736   24,219   24,892   25,375   26t142   26,625   26,814   27,287   27,287
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384
NON-PRODUCTIO4 OUTFLOW                         5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384
LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                12,403   12,403   12,403   12,403   12,403   12,403   12,403   12,403   12,403
NET FARM BENEFIT                              16,717   17,200   17,872   189356   19,123   19,606   19,795   20,268   20,268
0
0h
----------  _-                                            -                                - -_______________



NE BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAI , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
TYPE ELEVEN
(IN CR)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ CALENDAR ---- -            ----------------------
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1985      1998     1993
(BASE YRI
wITH PRJJECT
_      S  VL4,5                                            37       64        7,9        71_9,3                       94
GROSS VALtJ'-                               41,415   63,876   69,416   71,939   77,218   96,229-  98,p493   99,145   q99,145
= TOTAL INFLOW                                  41,415   63,d76   6B,416   71,939   77,218   96,228   98,493   99,145   99,145
-   WASTE AN9 LOSS                                5,3S4    3,304    8,894    9,352   10,038   12,510   12,804   12,889   12,889
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                           5,384    9,565   11,495   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612
= NET INFLOW                                     30,647   46,Co8   48,027   50,975   55,567   72,106   74,076   74,644   74,644
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       6,911   19,359   20,600   20,036   20,343   21,345   21,345   2tv345   21,345
HIRED LABOR COST                                  1      968    1,609    1,589    1,488    1,792    1,837    1,837    1,837
INVESTMENTS                                       0   46,207   19,552          0         0         0         0         0        0          r
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  6,911   66,534   41,762   21,625   21,831   23,136   23,181   23,181   23,181
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                             23,736  -20,526    6,265   29,350   33,736   48,969   50,895   51,463   51,463
nN-FARM CONSUMPTION                          5,384    9,565   11,495   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612
+ NON-PROOUCrION OUTFLOW                          5,384    9,565   11,495   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612   11,612
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                12,403   15,118   17,307   17,957   18,284   18,632   18,767   18,767   18,767
= NET FARM BENEFIT                               16,717  -26,079       453   23,005   27,065   41,949   43,740   44,308   44,308
mx
%o
0
0'



NE BIAZIL
PFRNAMBUCO RUPAL OEVELOPPENTl PPtJECr - AGRESTE SETENTRICNAL
FINANCIAL . ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
TYPE ELEVEN
(IN  CR)
--- -------A---------------------------------------------- CALENDAR ----------------------___-________
178    179       198'8    1981       1982      1983      L985      1988      1993
1BASE YR)
INCREMEENTAL
GROSS VALUE                                       0   21,905   25,572   28,640   33,037   51,492   53,539   53,648   53,648
TOTAL INFLOW                                        0   21,905   25,j72   28,640   33,037   51,492   53,539   53,648   53,648
-   WASTE AN) LOSS                                    0    2,848    3,337    3,723    4,295    6,694    6,960    6,974    6,974
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                               0    4,181    6,Iil    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228
. NET I4FLOW                                          0   14,877   16,224   18,688   22,514   38,569   40,351   40,445   40,445
DIE.CT P2U)JCTION COST                            0   12;448   i3,690   13,125   13,433   14,434   14,434   14,434   14,434
HIRE3 LASGR COST                                  0      968    1,609    1,589    1,487    1,791    lt836    1,836    1,836
INV3ST-IEJTS                                     0   46,207   19,552           0         8         0         3         8         0
- TOTAL OUTFLC.                                       J   59,623   34.850   14,714   14,920   16,225   16,270   16,270   16,270
NET FARM CASH FL3W                                  0  -44,746  -18,626    3,975    7,594   22,344   24,081   24,175   24,175
On-FAPM CONSUMPTION                               0    4,181    6,111    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228
t PjOrl-PRODICTIfIN OUTFLCW                           0    4,181    6,111    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228    6,228
LESS PIPUTIE  FAMILY LABOR COST                     0    2,715    4,J04    5,554    5,880    6,229    6,364    6,364    6,364
0  -43,279  -17,419    4,649    7,942   22,344   23,945   24,039   24,039
M'4TERNAL RATE OF RETURN 22.B5 S.
a wi'o
Co '
4C-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
FERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-AGRESTE
FARM TYPE ELEVEN
DEBI SERVICE AND CASH FLOW FROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
. - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -Y            E-        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --R- -
0        1        2         3        4        5        6         7        8        9        10       12
(1:)   CASH INFLOW:
J. VALUE OF FRODUCX .ON                  30.6     46.0     48.0      51.0     55.6     72.1      74.1     74.1     74.6    74.6       74.6    74.6
2  INVESTMENT LOAN i2  (100% OF 5)          0    46.2       19.6        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
3  SHOR- TERM L4AN -             (6)      6.9     27.9      26.5    23.4      21.8     23.1      23.2     23.2    23.2    23.2        23.2    23.2
4   TOTfAL INFLOW           (1+2+3)    37.6    120.1        94.1     74.4    77.4      95.2      97.3     97.3    97.8    97.8    97.8    97.8
I]I   CfASH OIJTFLOW:
5  INVESTMENT COST                          0    46.2       19.6        0 -      0         0        0        0         0        0        0       .0
6  OFERATING COST                         6.9      20.3    22.2       21.6    21.8    23.1       23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2.   23.2    23.2               0
7.  TUlTAL OUTFLOW             (5+6)      6.9      66.5    41.8       21.6    21.8     23.1      23.2     23.2    23.2    23.2        23.2    23.2
(III) NE:T CASH FLOW:
B   NET CASH FLOW              (4-7)    30.6       53.6    52.3       52.8    55.6     72.1      74.1     74.1     74.6      74.6     74.6    74.6
(]lJ  I:IEBT SERV4CES:
9  INVEST. LOAN FRINCIFAL PMT.              0         0        0        0      6.0      9.1      10.0     11-0     12.1     13.4       4.1        0
:10 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST                0      2.3       5.6      6.6      6.6      6.0       5.1      4.1      3.0       1.7       .4         0
:11 EHORT TERM LO-AN INTEREST              .3      1.4       1.3      1.2      1.1      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2      1.2  
:L2 SHoRT--r. LOAN FRINCIl,FAL PMT.       6.9     27.9     26.5      23.4     21.8     23.1               23.2     23.2     23.2      23.2    23.2
:L3  TOTALL DEPT SERVICE (9 TO 12)        7.3     31.6     33.5    31.2       35.5     39,4.    39.4      39.4    39.4      39.4      28.8    24.3   m
(V) * CASH BALANCE:
li4 CtA,SH BAL.ANC.E         (8-1-3)     23.4     22.0      18.8    21.6      20.1     32.7     34.6      34.6     35.2     35.2      45.8    50.3
1/  Investment Loan for 9 years, with 3 years grace, at 10,% interest.
2/ Short-term Loan at 107. interest finances 50% of inputed family labor value in year 1, 25% in year 2, 10% in year 3, plus purchased inputs.



-  79 -
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                          ANNEX 9
Table 3
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL                      Page 6 of 6
Livestock DevelopMent for Model Nr. 11
(5-10 ha farm, 2.5 ha pastures)
With Project
Without       - - - - - - - - - - Year - - - - - - - - - -
Project         1          2          3          4          5
1. INVESTMENT
Pasture establishment (includes
fencing costs)                                              -       9,952         -          -          -
2.  CATTLE OPERATING COSTS (ter model)
Labor                                          3,285        3,285      3,285     3,285      3,285      3,285
Vet. products                                    300          300        300        300        300       300
Fences maintenance                               300          300        350        350       350        350
Feed for cows                                               1,440     1,440      1,440      1,440      1,440
Depreciation of herd                             200          200        200        200        200       200
Other 1/                                         600          600        600        600        600        600
Total Operating Costs:          4,685        6,125      6,175      6,175      6,175      6,175
(2.5 ha)    (2.5 ha)
3.  CATTLE OPERATING COSTS (per ha)                1,875        2,450      2,470      2,470      2,470      2,470
4.  CATTLE SALES (per model)
Milk                                           2,478        3,304      4,130      4,130      4,130      4,130
Oxen change                                    2,000        2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500     2,500
Calf                                           1,500        1,500     1,500       1,500     1,500      1,500
Total Sales>:                     5,978         7,304      8,130      8,130      8,130     8,130
5.  CATTLE SALES (per ha)                          2,391        2,921      3,252      3,252      3,252      3,252
(2.5 ha)    (2.5 ha)
-   Includes mortality and bull service.
Herd Composition
Full Development
Without Project    A. U.        With Project    A. U.
1 cow            1             1 cow          1
1 calf           0.2           1 calf         0.2
2 steer          1.0           2 oxen         2.0
4                2.2           4              3.2
A. U./ha:   0.8                       1.3
Technical Coefficients
- The farmer spends 1/5 of his time handling cattle.
- Feed for miling cow: 2 kg/day during 200 days (lactating period).
- Milk production: Year 0: 3 lts/day; Year 1: 4 lts/day; Year 2-5: 5 lts/day. Milk price: Cr$ 4.13 lt.
- Mortality: the farmer loses one cattle head worth Cr$ 4,000 once every 10 years, with an annual
cost of Cr$ 400.
- The farmer replaces his oxen every year and buys younger ones.



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
Table 4
Page lof 6
Farm Model 19, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and Cash Flow Projections
Model Nr. 19 (See Annex 8, Table 1)
Subarea III
Farmer having 10-50 ha (number of participants 1373)
A.  Farm Development                                      Year
Before
CROPS               Project         1      2      3       4      5
Manioc/beans/maize             3.00         3.00    3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00
Cotton/beans/maize             2.00         2.00    2.00   2.00   2.00   2.00
Tomatoes/string beans            -          0.10    0.20   0.30   0.40   0.40
Sweet peppers                    -          0.10    0.20   0.25   0.30   0.40
Improved pasture               6.00         9.00   10.00  12.00  12.00  12.00
Natural pasture                7.00         3.80    2.60   0.45   0.10    -
Fallow or trees                  -            -        -      -    0.20   0.20
Farm area                     18.00        18.00   18.00  18.00  18.00  18.00
B. Farm Calender
Month         i J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D
1.50 ha          anVoct     beans/maize                    manioc   1st year
1.50 ha                             manioc - 2nd year
2.00 ha    Land Pre-cto                                          noro
2.00 ha        paration    maize/beans/cotton              cotton   no crop
1/ca
0.40 ha        no crop      tomatoes -      _    r.beans no crop
0.40 ha        no crop      sweet peppers                       no crop
1/  Tomatoes 0.40 ha, and second crop 0.3 ha



NE BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCC RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRUJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET-
TYPE NINETEEN
(IN -CR)
--------------------------------------------------------- -------------- CALENDAR ------------------
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1985      1984     1993
(BASE YR)
-___--_-------------------------------------------------------_----__--------__--_--___----_------------------------------
ITIIOUT PPnJECT
GROSS VALUE                                74,171   75,326   76,743   77,899   79,446   80,602   80,P63   8!,515   91,515
TOTAL INFLJW                                 74,171   75,326   76,743   77,899   79,445   80,602   RO,863   81,515   81,515
WASTE AND LCSS                              9,642    9,792    9,977   10,127   10,328   10,478   10,512   10,597   10,597
CN-FARM CONSUMPTION                         5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384
NJFT I'4FLOW                                 59,145   60,150   61,383   62,388   63,734   64,740   64,067   65,535   65,535
DIRECT PROOiJCTION COST                    15,535   15,535   15,535   15,535   15,535   15,535   15,535   15,535   15,535
HIR-D LAPOR COST                            3,590    3,590    3,593    3,590    3,590    3,590    3,590    3,593    3,590
TOTAL OUTFLCW                                19,125   19,125   19,125   19,125   19,125   19,125   19,125   19,125   19,125
NiET FARM CASH FLO4                          43,020   41,025   42,258   43,263   44,609   45,615   45,842   46,410   46,410
ON-F 4RP  CONSUMPTICN                       5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384
14CN-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                       5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384    5,384
LFSS I1PUTED FAMILY LABOR COST               17,775   17,775   17,775   17,775   17,775   17,775   17,775   17,775   17,775
NET FARM BENEFIT                             27,628   28,634   29,867   30,872   32,218   33,224   33,451   34,018   34,018
m
0%
-----
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M>w



NE BRAZIL
PFRNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FAPM BUDGET
TYPE NINETEEN
(IN -CR)
-------------- ---- - -- - ----------------------- - ------------------------ CALENDAR ----------------------------------
1978    1979     1980     1981     1982     1983      1985     1988     1993
(BASE YR)
- - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _--- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
WITH PR3JECT
G___OSS_- _______ V E1                                1   6      ,     1  8
GRCSS VALUE                              749171  1149156  1419662  145,840  1579161  160,789  1639399  1649704  1649704
= TOTAL INFLOW                               74,171  114,156  141,662  145,840  157,161  160,789  163,399  164,704  164,704
-   WASTE AND LOSS                           9,642   14,840   18,416   18,959   20,431   20,903   21,242   21,412   21,412
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPT ION                       5,384    7,640   7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640
= NET I4FLOW                                59,145   91,675  115,606  119,240  129,089  132,246  134,517  135,652  135,652
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                   15,535   32,668   36,956   40,217   41,209   41,459   41,459   41,459   41,459
HIRED LABOR COST                          3,590    6,698   13,214   15,599   16,274   16,904   16,904   16,904   16,904
INVESTMENTS                                  0  34,043   19,660    2,800         0        0        0        0        0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                              19,125   73,403  69,830   58,615   57,483   58,363   58,363   58,363   58,363
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                         40,020   18,267   45,776   60,625   71,606   73,883   769154   77,289   77,289
ON-FARM CONSUMPTICN                       5,384    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                     5,384    7,640   7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640    7,640   7,640
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST-           17,775   17,514   18,572   19,080   19,328   19,328   19,328   19,328   19,328
= NET FARM BENEFIT                          27,628    8,393  34,845   49,185   59,919'  62,196   64,467   65,602   65,602
(D H Mt
CDX
m > 
0
C'N
---  ---   -- ----   -- --- ---- --- --- -- - - --- --- ---- --- --- --- ---- --- --- ---- --- - -- ---- --- --- ---- --- --- ---



NE BRAZIL
PERNAM8UCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM 8UaGET
TYPE NINETEEN
(IN  CR)
---------------- --------------- ---- --------- ------CALENDAR -----------------------------------
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1985     1988      1993
I8ASE YR)
INtREMENTAL
GROSS VALUE                                      0   38,830   64,919   67,941   77,715   80,188   82,537   83,189   83,189
TOTAL INFL)W                                       0   38,830   64,919   67,941   77,715   80,188   82,537   83,189   83,189
-   WASTE AND LOSS                                   0    5,048    8,439    8,832   10,103   10,424   10,730   10,815   10.815
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                              0    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257
s fJFT liFLOW                                        0   31,525   54,223   56,852   65,355   67,507   69,550   70,11R   70,118
DIRECT PROJUCTION COST                           0   17,133   21,421   24,682   25,675   25,925   25,925   25,Q25   25,925
HIRED LABOR COST                                 0    3,108    9,624   12,009   12,694   13,314   13,314   13,314   13,314                 1
INVESTMFtNTS                                     0   34,043   19,660    2,800           0        0         0         0        0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                      0   54,284   50,705   39,490   38,358   39,238   39,238   39,238   39,238                 o
NET FARM CASH FLOW                                 0  -22,758    3,518   17,362   26,997   28,268   30,312   30,880   30,80w
ON-FARM C39NSUMPTION                             0    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257
+ NON-PIODuCTIV4 OUTFLOW                             0    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,257    2,757
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                     0      -261      797    1,305    1,5$3    1,553    1,553    1,553    1,553
5 NET FIRM BEN_FIT                                   0 -20,240    4,978   18,313   27,701   28,972   31,016   31,564   31,584
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 78.24 7.
OQ Ir
a
e---
-_--- _                          _ _ _   _ _      _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _    _ __- _      _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _  _ _ _ _       _ _ _   0'



NORT'HEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENI' PROJECT-AGRESTE
FARM T'YPE NINETEEN
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
....................--------------------------------------.YEAR---
0        1        2.       3       4        5        6        7        8        9       10       12
(i'   C,ASH IN1FLO0W:
i VALUE OF PRODUCXON                   59.2    91.7   115.6   119.2   129.1   132.2   134.5   134.5   135.7   135.7   135.7   135.7
INVESTMENT IOAND  (100% OF' 5)         0    34.0    19.7        2.6        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        Q
3  SHORT TERM LOAN-             (6)    19.1     39.4    50.2    55.8    57.5    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    59.4
-4  'T OTAtL INF-LOW       (1+2+3)     78.3   165.1   185.4   177.9   186.6   190.6   192.9   192.9   194.0   194.0   194.0   194.0
(. I'h;CASH OUTFLOW:
J  INVE ST MENT COST                      0    34.0    19.7        2.8        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
6  OPERATING COST                      19-1    39.4    50.2    55.8    57.5    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4
7   TOTAL UUT'FLOW            (5+6)    1.9.1    73.4    69-8    58.6    57-5    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4
(lII) NET CASH-FLOW:
8   NET CASHI FLOW           (4-7)    59.2    91.7   115.6-   119.2   129.1   132.2   134.5   134.5   135.7   135.7   135.7   135M7
(IV)  DEB'T' SER VICES:
9  INVEST. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.            0         0        0        0     4-4      7.4      8.5      9.4    10.3    11.3        4.6        0
1(0 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST               0     1.7      4.4      5.5      5,7      5.2      4.5      3.6      2.7      1.7       .5        0
1I SH-IORT TERM LOAN INTEREST           1.0      2.0      2.5      2.8      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9  + - 
12 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT'.       19.1    39.4    50.2    55.8    57.5    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4    58.4
13  TOTAL. DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)    20.1       43-0    57.1    64.1    70.4    73.9    74.3    74.3    74.3    74.3    66.4    61.3  u.
'0
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
14  CASH BALANCE            (8-13)     39.1    48.6    58.5    55.1    58.7    58.4    60.3    60,3    61.4    61.4    69.2    74..4
1/  Investment Loan for 9 years with 3 years grace, at 10% interest.
2/ Short term loan at 107. interest, covers purchased inputs only.



- 85 -
ANNEX 9
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                           Table 4
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL                 Page  6 of 6
Livestock DeveloDment for Models 8 and 19
(10-50 ha farm, 12 ha pastures)
With Project
Without        - - - - - - - - - - Year - - - - - - - - - - -
Project          1          2          3           4         5
1.  INVESTMENT
Pasture establishment (includes
fencing costs)                                       18,705    25,965          -           -         -
2. CATTLE OPERATING COSTS (per model)
Labor                                       8,213         8,213      8,213      8,213       8,213     8,213
Vet. products                                 900           900      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Fences maintenance                            600           600        700        700         700       700
Feed for cows                                             5,760      7,200     8,640       8,640      8,640
Other 1/                                    1,600         1,600      1,800      2,000      2,000      2,000
Total Operating Costs:   11,313          17,873    12,913    20,553       20,553    20,553
3.  CATTLE OPERATING COSTS (per ha)             1,131         1,489      1,576      1,713       1,713     1,713
(10 ha)     (12 ha)
4. CATTLE SALES (per model)
Milk            9,912                       9,912        13,216    20,650    24,780       24,780    24,780
Oxen change                                 2,000         2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000
Sales of steers                             4,000         6,000      6,000     6,000       6,000      6,000
Sales of heifers                                          2,500      2,500     2,500       2,500      2,500
Sales of cull cows                          3,000         3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000
Rent from oxen                              4,500         4,500      4,500     4,500       4,500      4,500
Total Sales:               23,412        31,216    38,650    42,780       42,780    42,780
5.  CATTLE SALES (per ha)                       2,341         2,601      3,220      3,565       3,565      3,565
(10 ha)       (12 ha)
Includes mortality:  CR$ 800 per year
bull service:  CR$ 200 ner cow/year
IHerd Composition
Full Development
Without Project    A. U.       With Project    A. U.
4 cows on milk      4         6 cows on milk    6
1dry cow            I         -                  -
2oxen               2         2                  2
4 calves            0.8       6                  1.2
1 steer             0.8       3                  2.4
1 heifer            0.8       4                  3.2
14 head              9.4      21                 14.8
A. U./ha  0.94                           1.23
Technical Coefficients
-  The farmer spends 1/2 of his time handling the cattle.
-  Feed for milking cows:  2 kg/cow/day over 200 days (lactating period).
-  Milk production, in lts/cow/day:  Year 0:3; Year 1:4; Year 2.5:5. Milk price Cr$ 4.13/lt.
- Mortality: the farmer losses/cattle head worth CR$ 4,000, once every 5 year with an amount cost
an amount cost of CR$ 800.
-  The farmers replaces his draft oxen every year by younger ones.
-  The farmer rents out his draft oxen 30 days per year at CR$ 150/day.
-  The farmer sells 1 cull cow every year.
January 1979



-  86  -
ANNEX 9
Table 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Estimated Farm Income of Project Participants
Expected Participation
Estimated Farm Income                   of this type
Before         At Full
Project  Proj.Development        Number       % of Total
(US$ equiv.)
Subarea I(East)
Non-owner, 0-5 ha           624            1289              437            2.8
Owner, 0-5 ha               500            1177              987            6.4
Owner, 5-10 ha              830            2099              529            3.4
Owner, 10-50 ha           1483             3942              462            3.0
Subarea II (Center)
A) Center of Subarea
Non-owner, 0-5 ha           332              692              50            0.3
Owner, 0-5 ha               416             1179             210            1.4
Owner, 5-10 ha              862             2528             130            0.8
Owner, 10-50 ha            2132             6274             175            1.1
B) Northeast and South
of Subarea
Non-owner, 0-5 ha            415             758             317            2.0
Owner, 0-5 ha                416            1909            2690           17.3
Owner, 5-10 ha               873            2314            1172            7.5
Owner, 10-50 ha             1652            3791            1472            9.5
C) Northwest of Subarea
Non-owner, 0-5 ha            332            692               323            2.1
Owner, 0-5 ha                416            966             1203             7.7
Owner, 5-10                  421           1289              600             3.9
Owner, 10-50                1210           3699              888             5.7
Subarea III (West)
Non-owner,0-5 ha             624           1231              276             1.8
Owner, 0-5 ha                449           1159             1396            9.0
Owner, 5-10 ha               649           1139               850            5.5
Owner, 10-50 ha             1443           3426             1373            8.8
Weighted Average/Total         757           2130            15540           100.0



-  87  -                         ANNEX9
Table 6
Northeast Brazil
Pernambuco Rural Development Project
Agreste Setentrional
Einancial ,ates o Uetumrn for rlFoect Farm Models
(by farm-size and sub-area)
in percent
Landless               Farmers Having:
Farmers         0-5 ha    5-10 ha    10-50 ha
Subarea I
More humid eastern section.
Staple foodcrops with introduction
of vegetables and expansion of live-
stock on farms over 5 ha.                   55.7          55.0      59.3         48.3
Subarea II
Drier central section.
A. Center of subarea. Staple foodcrops,
cotton and introduction of pine-
apple and vegetables and expansion
of livestock on farms over 5 ha.         59..3         52.5      34.3         44.6
B. Northeast and South of subarea,-
Staple food crops and introduction
of fruits and vegetables and exDan-
sion of livestock on farms over 5 ha.  67.6           29.9       22.8         49.0
C. North-jest of subarea. Staple food-
crops and introduction of vegetables
and expansion of livestock on farms           1|
over 5 ha.                              59.3           77.1      46.3         64.8.
Subarea III
More humid western section.
Staple foodcrops and introduction of
vegetables and expansion of livestock
on farms over 5 ha.                         51.5          65.1      25.3         78.2
1/ Same model



-  88 -                              ANNEX 10
NORTHEAST BRAZIL                              AgE 1
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Economic Analysis of Small Non-Farm Enterprises
1. General The increasing urbanization of the project area has been
accompanied by a growth in industrial, commercial and service activities
generally undertaken by very small family-owned and operated enterprises,
catering to the needs of the small farmers and poor urban dwellers in the region.
Activities include carpentry, welding, bucket and artefact manufacture, pottery,
leather work, sewing, bakeries, small retail stores, and construction. These
enterprises also use agricultural products from the area as inputs in the production
of processed foodstuffs, such as cheese, sweets, jams, and manioc flour. Many
of these very small establishments operate without official registration. Thus,
their numbers are much larger than the official statistics indicate. The 1970
census showed that there were a total of 4,200 industrial, commercial or service
type enterprises in the project area. Average persons employed per establishment
was 3.1. These types of activities are clustered around the larger urban centers
in the region, which also have the largest weekly markets, where much of the
business is transacted. The principal towns are: Caruaru, Limoeiro, Gravata,
Bezerros, Pesqueira, Surubim, and Belo Jardim.
2.   Economic Analysis  To evaluate the incremental impact of project sponsored
activities in this sector, various representative situations were derived from
examples of actual enterprises. The incremental impact of the technical as-
sistance offered in the project, coupled with investment and working capital
credit obtainable from local banks9 was then projected. Firms were assumed to
increase sales 25 to 30% over the next five years, as the availability of credit
and technical assistance enabled them to expand production, find new markets, and
increase efficiency.  Wages for skilled personnel remained at market levels,
which was judged to reflect underlying market conditions for this type of labor,
which is generally in short supply. Wages for unskilled workers are about 3/4
of a minimum wage in many cases, and were left at this very low level, on the
judgement that they also reflected the overall market situation for this type
of personnel. Prices for the goods produced remain at their financial levels,
as they are not the type of goods Brazil imports or exports. Conditions are
fairly competitive at their levels of production with little product
differentiation.
3.        The mix of types of enterprises to' be assisted was judged to be:
50% from industry, 30% from commercial and 20% from the services sector,
based on the experience UNO has obtained working in this sector in Recife.
Rates of return ranged between 41% and 86% for individual enterprises.  A
total of 2,340 non-farm enterprises would be assisted with technical
assistance associated with credit during the 5-year project implementation
period, 100 in year 1, 210 in year 2, 400 in year 3, 670 in year 4, and 960
in year 5. These enterprises were included in the rate of return calcula-
tion. In addition, some 400 concerns would benefit from just the training
and technical assistance aspects of the project, including training provided
under the education component. Benefits from these activities are even harder
to quantify, and are not included in the analysis.
4.        In the analysis of the economic rate of return of the small farm
enterprise as a whole, the benefit stream was taken as net incremental small
enterprise benefits, resulting from expanded operation under the project.
The cost stream included the incremental investments and working capital
necessary for expanded operation, and all the project technical assistance
and research and demonstration costs9 with their toreign excnange component
revalued to allow for a shadow foreign exchange rate 30% above the official
one: i.e. 1 Cr$ = US$24.90. The estimated rate of return was 37.7%.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Condensed and Indicative Financial Position for Selected Small
Non-Farm Enterprises in the Project Area
(Cr$ '000)
Tin bucket                               Manioc
Door- and artefact                   Jams  and Grinding  Retail
Carpenter maker    maker       Baker Mechanic Preserves   House    Staire  Ceramics
Employees(including owner)             3        4          4         9       8        10          8         2         8
Balance Sheets
Fixed Investment(Cr$'000)         57.0    38.0         4.0    228.0   278.0    659.0          50.0      15.0    103.0
Working Capital                     3.0    15.0         0.6      5.0    30.0    100.0         30.0       6.0       5.0
Capital Stock:
Owner                            6.0    53.0         4.6      93.0   308.0    609.0         50.0     28.0    108.0
Others                            -        -          -      140.0      -       150.0         -         -         -
Income Statements
Sales                                240.0   248.8       100.8    552.0  1044.0   1728.0        120.0    168.0    240.0
Fixed Costs:
Depreciation/Maintenance
of investments:               6.2      4.2        0.4      28.1    14.3      92.9        2.0       1.7       2.5
Rent                            -      18.0        1.2      30.0      6.0     24.0        0.2      12.0        -
Total                          6.2    22.2         1.6      58.1    20.3    116.9         2.2      13.7       2.5         X
Variable Costs
Salaries                   (2)59.2 (3)73.1   (3)14.4  (8)86.7(7)180.0 (9)164.0           15.0 3/QL)3.0  (7)68.2 4/
Materials                     70.8   110.3        35.5    327.5   720.0    992.4         90.0    100.8    101.5
Utilities                      4.2      -          -         -        3.7      95.6         .5      -          -
Taxes(10% IPI + 15% ICM)    60.0        -          -         -        3.0      24.0         -       6.0        -
Transport                      4.8      3.6        -        25.2       -       57.6         -       2.4       9.6
Entrepreneur's wage  1/       20.0    20.0        13.0      30.0 2/ 20.0       20.0      10.0      13.0      20.0
Total                        219.0   207.0        62.9    469.4   926.7   1353.6        115.5    135.2    119.3
Total Costs                          225.2   229.2        64.5    527.5   947.0   1470.5        117.7    148.9    201.8
Net Income                            14.8    19.6        36.3      24.5    97.0    257.5         2.3      19.1      38.2
% of Sales                             6%       8%         36%       4%      9%       15%         2%        11%       16%
1/ Inputed value, in cases where it was not included
2/ Includes family members                                                                                                     o
3/ Unskilled labor provided at very low cost by family
4/ Seven persons at 3/4 of a minimum salary each
Source:  Survey undertaken by POLONORDESTE Technical Unit - PE.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Indicative Rate of Return Calculation for Small Non-Farm Enterprise Component
(Cr$ '000)
Number   of
Individual Net Inc.Benefit Stream  Enterprises  Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10 Year 11 - 25
Retail                            1          -3      -1      2       2      3       3      3       3      3       3         3
Carpenter                         1         -19       2     12      22     18      18     18      18     18      18        18
Mechanic                          1         -56      19     23      40     59      59     59      59     59      59        59
Preserves                         1         -40      15     35      55     75      75     75      75     75      75        75
Manioc                            1         -91       2      3       5      6       6      6       6      6       6         6
Weighted Average Incremental Net
Benefit Stream
Commerce:   Commerce                   30          -90      30     60     60      90      90     90      90     90      90        90
Services:   Mechanic                   20         -380     40    240    440   1180   1180   1180   1180   1180   1180           1180
Carpenter                  20       -1120    380    460    800   1180   1180   1180   1180   1180   1180            1180
Industry:   Preserves                  20         -800    300    700   1100   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500           1500
Manioc                     10        - 91      20      30     50      60     60      60     60      60     60         60
Total                          100       -2481    710   1490   2450   4010   4010   4010   4010   4010   4010            4010
Net Small-enterprise Incremental                                                                                                            o
Benefit Stream
Year 1                                100        -2481    710   1490   2450   4010   4010   4010   4010   4010   4010          4010
Year 2                                210           -   -5210   1491   3129   5145   8421   8421   8421   8421   8421          8421
Year 3                                400           -      -   -9924   2840   5960   9800   9800   9800   9800   9800          9800
Year 4                                670           -      -      -   -16622   4757   9983  16415  26867  26867  26867        26867
Year 5                                960           -      -     -       -   -23818   6816  14304  23520  38496  38496        38496
Total Benefit Stream                 2340       -2481  -4500  -6943  -8203  -3946  39030  52950   72618 87594  87594          87594
Cost Stream I/                       2340         4787   6607  10672  14516  16986  15282  13597  11873  10188   8483          8483
Net Incremental Benefit Stream                  -7268 -11107 r17615 -22719 -'20932  23748  39353  60745  77406  79111         79111
ROR= 37.7%
I/ Includes technical assistance and research and demonstration activities provided under the project -  Costs include taxes,   S x
which average 1.2% of project costs during the 5 year project investment period - Deduction of taxes would not materially               o
effect the rate of return.                                                                                                              C
Source: World Bank mission
April 1979



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis of Agricultural Activities under the Project
(in efficiency prices and Cr$ million)
------------------------------------------------------------------- Y  E A R S ------------------__---_______________________________________________--
1          2          3          4           5          6          7          8           9          10         11        12          13          14       15-25
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT STREAM
Net farm  benefit                         -45.0      -65.8      -65.1       -40.8       12.4      204.5       324.0      407.1      451.8      478.6       482.9    485.7        484.3      486.6      487.1
COST STREAM -
Agricultural extension                     25.0       32.4        34.3       38.3       43.2        33.2       29.5       25.9       22.2        18.4       18.4      18.4        18.4       18.4        18.4
Agricultural research                       6.2         5.1        5.2        5.1        5.2        4.7         4.2        3.8        3.4         3.2        2.8       2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5
Improved seed supply                        5.3        0.9        0.9         0.9        0.9        0.8         0.8        0.6        0.6        0.5        0.5       0.5          0.5        0.5        0.5
Mechanization/multipurpose dams             6.8        6.9         1.1        0.7        0.7          -          -          -          -          -           -         -           -          -           -
Cooperative society assistance              2.8        4.1         5.5        5.5        2.7        1.4
Marketing                                   8.0        8.0         8.0        9.1        4.8        0.6          -          -          -           -          -         -           -          -           -
Feeder toads                               77.5      114.2       100.1       67.9       16.6        6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0       6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0
Administration and monitoring              13.0       15.4        12.3       12.0       12.0        9.6         7.2        4.8        2.4          -          -         -           -           -          -
Evaluation                                  4.1        4.1         2.2        2.2        4.4        3.6         2.7        1.8        0.9                                      -
Total                                   148.7      191.1      169.6       141.7       90.5       59.9       50.4        42.9       35.5       28.1       27.7      27.4         27.4       27.4       27.4
NET BENEFIT STREAM                         -193.7    -256.9    -234.7    -182.5          -78.1      144.6       273.6      364.2      416.3      450.5       455.2    458.3        456.9      459.2      459.7
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN                      22.4%
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis of Total Project
(in efficiency prices and Cr$ million)
------------------------------------------------------------------Y E A R S-----------------------------------------------------------------------
1          2          3          4           5          6          7          8          9           10         11        12          13          14       15-25
NET BENEFIT STREAMS
Agricultural production                  -193.7    -256.9    -234.7    -182.5          -78.1      144.6       273.6      364.2      416.3      450.5      455.2    458.3         456.9      459.2      459.7
Small non-farm enterprises3/               -7.3      -11.1       -17.6      -22.7      -20.9       23.7        39.3       60.7       77.4       79.i       79.1      79.1         79.1       79.1       79.1
Total Project                        -201.0    -268.0       -252.3    -205.2        -99.0      168.3      312.9       424.9      493.7      529.6      534.3    537.4         536.0      538.3      538.8
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN                      23. 6%
j/ Includes taxes. Taxes average 1.2% of the relevant project costs during the 5 year project investment period, and subsequently are reduced even further, their impact on the rate of
return calculation was judged imnaterial.
a' See above.
3/ See table                                                                                                                                                                                                      m
Source: World Bank mission.
February 1979 



-   9R -                        ANNEX 12
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL
Related Documents Available in Project File
A.   Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1. Project area summary data
2. Agricultural development
3. Agricultural extension
4. Agricultural adaptive research
5. Supply of improved seeds and planting material
6. Land tenure studies
7. Credit for agriculture
8. Input supply
9. Marketing
10. Assistance to Cooperative Societies
11. Mechanization and small dam construction
12. Small non-agricultural enterprises
13. Feeder-roads
14. Water-supply
15. Education and training
16. Health and sanitation
17. Production estimates, marketing and prices
18. Producers income and employment, and detailed farm and enterprise-models
19. Economic analysis
20. Fiscal analysis
21. Organization and management
22. Monitoring and evaluation
B.  Principal Documents prepared by the State
1, Governo do Estado de Pernambuco -
Secretaria de Planejamento - Instituto de Desenvolvimento
de Pernambuco (CONDEPE) and Commissao Estadual de Planejamento
Agricola de Agricultura (CEPA-PE)
Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado do Agreste Setentrional
March 1976, two volumes
2. Governo do Estado de Pernambuco -
Conselho Director - Unidade Tecnica
Projeto de Desenvolvimento Rural Integrado do Agreste Setentrional
Reformulation, September 1978, eleven volumes
3. Governo do Estado de Pernambuco -
CONDEPE
Aproveitamento Integral da Bacia do rio Capibaribe
(General Development Plan of the Capibaribe river-basin)
September, 1978. Draft edition, 3 volumes, 1 volume of maps.



IBRD 14004
..eARA         PAR           A[BA                                                                                                                                                                         MARCH 1979
[ul oieos                    PAAR A I  3A,0
X ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  |O                                             C ~ T  /o         9 I 9 9 5         0 +0              5: F                        o Q o n o   ,A G        , ,TE h
Ck B.l     R A                                                                       P AR A                                                                   Z 
~~ 8    Molu18v             \                 /    /                                     AG~~OLON RDESTE  RUENRALO EV LOP     EN PROJECT A E
PhAU0~d IR0ro.0
~~~~~>CAK'H)lCCOB VNA t  - PRJC ONA GlUrRL-OEtIE
0R0o ~  _F`0.r 0ok,00. E                                                                                                            d..o0oo,,oEC,.0od,0.  00
09  ,0y 0Rg   000   3090OOOooR.  ALAGOAS0000,.             d3000  poNS
30   >  \   /         WO RENTO DO UNs  v       |      <o/                                   A  CENIRAL NURSERIE;                               O RURAL ECUCATIOIq CEL4IDOEAGPDO;T~ENG
1 onf/}\/#/ 3LCLHAT ETR OBE COSRUCE AND  EOIPPE DAMOVRl0,D0a
0  a (   a cz,tnicobg                                *  P'        PLY YSTEM O BE CON519UCTED          _    DERA EOADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
(  91   |   ,FJ3tQbebo    /  7 Loz3do                                03  EXISblNG OCA HEALTH CENTERS W IH CONSTRUCT ON     STATE ROADS~~~~~~
\;l   X   4  j 5 I /                                          t  U DE THE PROJECT       ~      ~     ~             M NICIPAL B UNdAREl
\   \  /  /                               0 |                       N R                                        - -- STATE BOUNDARES~~~~~~~~~J
4 4  c o w r,t       \t     d/                                                            L     ,    10    ,   2D          30         40          50.
r t ~~~~~ 3ff h > . ~~~~~~~_ \\w>
/ K   X n  S h   xh  e   l  i   h  7h   slP ds  ehe    s M v m  o c   _   \   >   / L 5 j 0  D   5   1 0   IS   2 p   2,5   3 0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  
*:L I  E,P v"  vsh  SvrS vfvd   de          O(,<3,3    II!FF                                                         6C                                                         53






IBRD 14005
MARCH 1979
BRAZIL
State of Pernambuco
POLONORDESTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRESTE  SETENTRIONAL                                                                        0                                                                       Project Area Boundory
CLIMATE                                  ol                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Federal Roads
_____ State Roads
GO  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.-State Boundary
-.     Sub-Areais Boundary
~~~~~~~~Munincipal Boundaries
rs ~o,p,,,e  -   700   Annual Average Rainfall (In mm)
ELEVATION IN METERS
1000 and Above
A     0                              LORIA D                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~801 - 1000
601 -800
9'40i-600
SA TO ANTAG              ~~Less Than 400
Th.s map has been prepared by the World Banics staff eacl-nmey tor the c-nven-ec
at the reders of the reprt to which t/s attached. The denominat,ons used and the
bou-daries sho- on thin map do e-t imply,.,a the part at the Wurtd each -nd to
affiliates, any jdgment en the legal stats at any terntory -ray endorsement or
acceptance of such baundarie..
ACHOEIRINHA                                    ~~~AGRESTE  SETENTRIONAL-PE...
9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ............
PEPNAM8UCO                                                                                               Ipoisro.................
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ --.R 1- .L..aec
A~~~en                                                                     RIVER  BASINS.............
~~n~~n,i,n  ~ ~           ~          ~          ~         jv....A...BAR......
TO                                                                      .............                               ..........~~~~~L u l]    PO UC
"do  ~         &                                                                                                                      .... ... .... ...
~~  ~~~M R ~~~~I  C  A  Rc..                             ..  ..d.                       .. ...   ..  .. ..  ..  ..  ..  ..
I   I                          '~~~,---.-~~~~-.- R /          L      ic
KILOMETERS                                                  ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~'eaCRVERhASIN



