Document of
The World Bank  aLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   P-2578-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 4, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978        May 10, 1979
Currency Unit    X        Cruzeiro (Cr$)           (Cr$)
US$1                      Cr$18.3                  24.65
Cr$1                      US$0.055                  0.041
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB           =   Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BNB          -   Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast)
CISAGRO          Companhia Integrada de Servicos Agropecuarios de
Pernambuco (State Integrated Agricultural Services Company)
COMPESA      -   Companhia Pernambucana de Saneamento (State Water Supply
and Sanitation Company)
DER-PE            Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
EMATER-PE    =   Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de
Pernambuco (State Rural Extension Company)
PMU               Gerencia do Projecto Integrado de Desenvolvimento Rural -
PDRI - do Agreste Setentrional (Project Management Unit
of the Agreste Setentrional Rural Development Project)
POLONORDESTE =   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste (Development Program for Integrated Projects
in Northeast Brazil)
SEC          -   Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura (State Secretariat
of Education)
SES               Secretaria de Saude (State Secretariat of Health)
TU           =   Unidade Tecnica do POLONORDESTE (Technical Unit for
Coordination of POLONORDESTE Projects in Pernambuco)
UFPe         =   Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (Federal University
of Pernambuco)
UNO          =   Uniao Nordestina de Assistencia as Pequenas Organizacoes
(Technical Assistance Union for Small Enterprises in
Northeast Brazil)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$19.15)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling price as of October 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:           US$40 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 7.9% interest per annum
Protect
Description:    The objectives of the project are to increase production
and productivity of 15,540 small farms and 2,700 small
non-farm enterprises, to increase rural employment oppor-
tunities, and to improve social and physical infrastructure
in the Agreste Setentrional Region of Pernambuco State. A
related objective is to improve the statewide effectiveness
of institutions participating in the project. The project
provides for the strengthening of agricultural and support
services and infrastructure, rural credit, technical
assistance for small non-farm industries, and institutional
development of the local executing agencies. Land tenure
studies would be carried out under the project to lay the
basis for a new land tenure policy in the Region.
The main risk faced by the project is that of not
achieving active participation by, and adequate
coordination among, the various participating agencies.
To minimize this risk the State Government has estab-
lished an inter-agency Management Council and a Project
Management Unit to coordinate and monitor project
implementation. Each executing agency will designate
one person as full time liaison with the Project Manage-
ment Unit. In addition the project provides for a
detailed annual work plan for each agency, consultant
services, and continuous project monitoring and evaluation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
% of total
-----US$ Millions------    Baseline
Local   Foreign   Total         Costs
Credit
On-farm Investment Credit           23.16      3.16    26.32        29.3
Incremental On-Farm Working
Capital Credit                    16.00      2.61    18.61        20.7
Subtotal                            39.16      5.77    44.93        50.0
Production Support Services
Agricultural Extension               8.00      0.70      8.70        9.7
Agricultural Research                 1.23     0.11      1.34         1.5
Seed Supply                          0.33      0.09      0.42        0.5
Water Conservation                   0.50      0.21      0.71        0.8
Assistance to Cooperative
Societies                          0.90      0.09      0.99        1.1
Marketing                            1.62      0.14      1.76        2.0
Feeder Roads                         9.95      5.13    15.08        16.8
Small Non-Farm Enterprises           2.52      0.13      2.65        3.0
Subtotal                            25.05      6.60    31.65        35.4
Social Infrastructure
Village Water Supply                 2.10      0.87      2.97        3.3
Education and Training               4.04      0.50      4.54        5.1
Health and Sanitation                1.40      0.29      1.69         1.9
Subtotal                             7.54      1.66      9.20       10.3
Project Management
Administration and Monitoring        2.98      0.12      3.10        3.4
Eva.luation                          0.80      0.01      0.81        0.9
Subtotal                             3.78      0.13      3.91        4.3
Total Baseline Costs                  75.53    14.16    89.69        100.0
Physical Contingencies               3.65      0.69      4.34        4.8
Price Contingencies                 19.09      3.57    22.66        24.1 1/
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   98.27    18.42   116.69         130.1
1/   Price contingencies calculated as percent of baseline costs plus physical
contingencies.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
US$ Million          %
Government                 76.7             65.7
IBRD                       40.0             34.3
Total                     116.7            100.0
Estimated
1Disbursements                           -------------US$ Millions------------…   -
Bank FY        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual          1.8    5.7    9.8    9.6   11.0    2.1
Cumulative      1.8    7.5   17.3   26.9   37.9   40.0
Rate of Return:             The economic rate of return is estimated at 24% for
the productive aspects of the project with directly
quantifiable benefits, which represent about 91% of
total project costs.
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 2418-BR, dated May 22, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$40
million to help finance the Pernambuco Rural Development project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated Marczh 19, 1979, was clistributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        A new Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979 for a six-year term. In its
inaugural statements, the new Administration has emphasized the need to
reduce inflation and limit the growth of aggregate demand in accordance with
Brazil's balance-of-payments constraint.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at EL real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite significant trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
relative income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that
most Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth of
public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports.  The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports
rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports
also swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Sergipe Rural Development Project (No. P-2554-BR, dated
May 16, 1979).



- 2 -
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or 7%
of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the sud-
denly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic problems
of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the oil crisis has been enhanced by its
strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of its manu-
factured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets, combined
with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and the opportun-
ities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import substitution.
Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high national growth
expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the authorities were initially
reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shiftea instead coward
increasing control over imports, which were held approximately constant in
nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort, accomplished
through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a positive merchand-
ise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current account deficit was
reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged 7.6% per year between
1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the
authorities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained above 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional
international reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, despite a 2%
decline in agricultural output. The agricultural failure was caused by a
serious drought in southern Brazil which resulted in the loss of an estimated
30% of the soybean crop, 17% of corn output, 5% of rice, and 18% of cotton.
The resultant reduction of exports and increased need for imports cost the
economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign exchange, about two-thirds of
which was attributable to reduced soybean exports. An important bright spot
in the picture was a 36% nominal increase in the export of manufactured
goods. Total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%, compared to a 13.4%
increase in imports.
9.        Interest payments abroad increased sharply as a combined result
of substantial borrowings and a steep rise in the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR),
to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied. The current account
deficit thus rose to 3.0% of GDP in 1978. Total debt service on medium- and
long-term debt (public and private), net of interest earned on Brazil's re-
serves, rose to 59% of exports in 1978, from 49% in the previous year. Part of
this increase, however, was associated with a further US$3.8 billion increase
in international reserves. By the end of the year reserves had grown to
US$11.7 billion, or about 8 months of projected 1979 import equivalence
(including non-factor services). Inflation remained at about 40% in 1978,
for the third consecutive year, despite continued curbs on credit and public
sector investment. The drought-related contraction of agricultural output



and the rapid build-up of international reserves contributed to the price
pressures. These pressures intensified in early 1979, while labor disputes
which had occurred sporadically in 1978 affected much of the public sector of
Sao Paulo as well as teachers in the major cities. The new Government
responded to the rise in inflation by adopting a new package of measures during
April 1979. The major components of the package are a temporary price-freeze
on supermarket sales, stricter enforcement of existing price control regula-
tions, new restraints on private sector foreign borrowing, and severe limits
on domestic credit expansion.
Poverty Programs
10.       Although Brazil c:ontinues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been
expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban
population is now covered by the social security's health care system, and a
cash transfer program has been established for the rural elderly poor.  Under
this latter system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age
are eligible to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an
amount which is almost twi,ce the average per capita expenditure in the rural
Northeast. The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program.
Almost 2 million loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964
for housing. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to
benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a
program to finance home improvement and building materials. High priority
has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people
have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the
proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services from 60 to 75%.
Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of adult
illiteracy and malnutrition.
Future Prospects
11.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated and foreign oiLl companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have been acce-
lerated to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate
nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for automotive
use, while efforts have besen made to induce energy conservation. The results,
however, have thus far been limited, and with oil now constituting 30% of
Brazil's merchandise imports, as compared to 11% in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
12.       The Government that took office on March 15 has acknowledged
that the balance-of-payments constraint and the need to reduce the rate of
inflation mean that Brazil must undergo a period of carefully moderated
economic growth. As noted above, a number of measures toward this end have
already been announced, including some increases in taxes and further reduc-
tions of public expenditures, credit, and subsidies. To assure the efficient



- 4 -
execution of these and future fiscal and monetary policy decisions, several
important institutional reforms have been set in motion. These include:
consolidation and improvement of information flows and centralized control
over the public sector budget, integrating the operations of the far-flung
semi-autonomous agencies and public enterprises; incorporation also into the
budget of many of the subsidized credit programs currently handled outside
the budget through the Central Bank; and elimination from the Central Bank of
its gradually accumulated development banking functions. Important also in
this context, as well as to the efficiency of resource allocation, is the
decision to phase out over four years both the excess rebate of taxes to
exports and the prior deposit requirement on imports, and compensating these
actions through gradual real devaluation of the cruzeiro. Indications are
that Brazilian industry would be internationally competitive, even without
export subsidies, over a wide range of manufactures if an appropriate real
exchange rate is maintained.
13.       Growth is expected to average at most 5-6% per year in 1979 and
1980, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. But barring further
unforeseen difficulties that would constrain the availability of external
resources, it might be possible in subsequent years to reaccelerate the
economy gradually to a growth rate of 7-8% by 1985. Such growth rates would
be compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
a falling debt service ratio.
14.       This prognosis depends heavily on the continued vigorous growth of
manufactured exports, though at a rate more modest than that of the past 15
years. The export of manufactures grew at a real average annual rate of 28%
in the decade 1964-74, this pace dropping off only during the world-wide
recession of 1975-76. The momentum resumed in 1977 and 1978 with real growth
rates of 29 and 20%, respectively. By comparison, the growth rates assumed
in the projections -- 18% per annum during 1978-80 and 12% per annum in
1980-85 -- do not appear unreasonable, particularly in view of the broad
diversification of Brazil's manufactured exports in terms of both products
and markets.
15.       Also assumed is the continuation of Brazil's vigorous import-
substitution effort. The present substitution program was initiated prior
to the oil-related balance-of-payments difficulties in recognition that the
growth and increasing sophistication of the domestic economy had made possible
the efficient production of many capital and intermediate goods requiring
large-scale operations and advanced technology. Major projects were conse-
quently undertaken for the production, inter alia, of fertilizers, steel,
aluminum, other basic metals, and petroleum.  The installation of hydroelec-
tric capacity could also be properly viewed in this context. Although public
investments will be restrained in coming years as part of the new Government's
announced stabilization program, these sectors will continue to receive
priority.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Despite the successful effort to restrict imports after the rise
in oil prices, the maintenance of high growth rates after 1973 has required a
substantial increase in Brazil's external indebtedness. By the end of 1978,



the total of public and private external debt outstanding had risen to
US$41.0 billion, as compared to US$12.6 billion at the end of 1973. As noted
earlier a significant fraction of this borrowing was added to Brazil's inter-
national reserves, which increased from US$6.4 billion to US$11.7 billion over
the same period. This "excess" borrowing occurred largely in response to the
steadily imaproving loan terms available to Brazil in 1977 and 1978, which
provided the economy relatively low (net) cost insurance against future exter-
nal shocks and offered many private borrowers an alternative to expensive
domestic credit.
17.       A gross capital inflow of US$14.9 billion was required in 1978 to
cover the current account deficit (US$5.7 billion), amortization payments
(US$5.4 billion) and the resierve accumulation (US$3.8 billion). After
accounting for direct investments and short-term outflows, total medium- and
long-term credits (disbursements) amounted to US$14.3 billion.  Financial
credits accounted for US$11.4 billion of the total.
18.       Brazil is expected to show a growing resource surplus beginning
around 1980, reaching US$2.0 billion by 1985. Rapidly increasing net factor
service payments abroad, emanating from both interest payments on its large
debt and royalties for imported technology, could reach US$7.5 billion by
1985, however, resulting in a continuing current account deficit through the
first half of the 1980s in the range of US$5.0-5.5 billion. But in proportion
to GDP, the current account deficit would fall to less than one percent by
1985.
19.       Gross borrowing requirements are expected to fall sharply to about
US$6.9 billion in 1979 as a combined result of the reduced growth rate and the
Government's announced intention to draw down reserves by about US$3 billion.
Thereafter, gross borrowings would rise steadily from US$11.5 billion in 1980 to
US$16.1 billion by 1985. Net borrowing would grow from US$3.8 billion to US$5.8
billion over the same period. The need for external financing is thus expected
to grow somewhat more slowly than in recent years and significantly less rapidly
than the rate of growth of exports. As a consequence the net debt service ratio
(including both public and private debt) would peak at about 60% in 1980, falling
steadily thereafter to 40% by 1985.
20.       In summary, Brazil is a dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient
economy in which policy makers have demonstrated repeatedly their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances when needed. After a period of very rapid
growth in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of pet-
roleum imports has forced the nation to moderate its growth expectations and
to adapt its economic structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjust-
ment process was eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of inter-
national creditworthiness, aggressive expansion of its manufactured exports,
and the ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by its
large domestic market. Nevertheless, Brazil's continued heavy dependence on
petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumu-
lation of external debt in recent years indicate that the process is not yet
complete. The new Government recognizes the need to restrain the growth of
aggregate demand for the next several years while continuing, with greater
selectivity than in the past, to make the investments necessary both to sustain



-6-
the progress of export expansion and import substitution and to alleviate
poverty. The task of economic management will not be easy, but the outlook
is favorable. The current analysis shows no diminution of Brazil's capacity
to service its existing and future debts. Moreover, the fact that imports
are small relative to GDP and that because of Brazil's size and diversity
most imports are residual in nature -- i.e., fill the gap between demand and
existing domestic production capacity -- means that relatively small changes
in the overall economic growth rate will generally suffice to adjust to
unforeseen shocks to the balance of payments. Brazil thus remains fully
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By April 30, 1979 the Bank had made 85 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,178.2 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$202
million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252 million in FY78. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1979 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Over the FY75-FY78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made
totalling US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in
FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million were made. So far in FY79 four loans totalling US$317
million have been approved: a US$100 million loan for a water supply and
sewerage project in the northeast, a US$93 million loan for a sites and services
and low-cost housing project, a US$98 million loan for an aluminum project, and
a US$26 million loan for a rural development project in the state of Sergipe.
The documents for a US$109 million loan for a power distribution project in
the state of Parana, and a US$70 million loan for a medium-sized cities project
have been recently distributed to the Executive Directors. Work is relatively
advanced on the preparation of a second irrigation project in the Northeast, a
second feeder roads project, an industrial pollution control project in Sao
Paulo, a power distribution project in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, and a
rural primary education project in the northeast, for which we expect to
propose loans in the near future.                     0
23.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to nearly US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.



- 7 -
24.       As of April 30, 1979 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$460.2
million, of which US$320.6 mlillion had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance of US$139.6 million, US$103.5 million represent loans and US$36.1
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of April 30, 1979 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strate&y
25.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to
these ends that the proposed Pernambuco Rural Development project is mainly
directed. Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational
training, agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder construc-
tion in the lower Sao Francisco river basin as well as for integrated rural
development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba,
Bahia and Sergipe were also' designed to assist low-income groups in rural
areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups in rural
areas are in preparation, including a second Feeder Roads Project, a second
irrigation project for the Lower Sao Francisco Valley, and a rural education
project. The loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the State of
Minas Gerais, in Greater SeLO Paulo and in the Northeast, for urban transport
in five major cities, and for sites and services and low-cost housing are
assisting to improve the liLving conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups
in urban areas are in preparation, including a water supply and sewerage
project for Southern Brazil, a second urban transport project, and a
pollution control project Eor Greater Sao Paulo.
26.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the trans-
portation sector where there has been emphasis on the rational selection of
investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of
railways" financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply and
sewerage., industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension,
and urban development also have important institution-building objectives.
It is expected that the experience gained by the local executing agencies
during the preparation and implementation of the proposed project will be
applied in future rural development projects in Pernambuco, as well as in
other northeastern states.



- 8 -
27.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending
for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this
objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective
would be achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which uses Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
28.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Nine co-financing operations
for more than US$365 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the National Economy
29.       Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be an important
sector in the economy. The national agricultural work force numbers 12.8
million, or 39.5% of the economically active population. About 60% of
merchandise exports originate in the agricultural sector (including processed
agricultural goods), with coffee, soybeans and sugar alone generating about
40% of the country's export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter
of coffee, the largest producer of cane sugar, and the second largest producer
of soybeans. It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts, cocoa, orange
juice, castor oil and sisal.



- 9 -
30.       The most important products for the domestic market include
cassava, mlaize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus
fruit, dairy products, poultry, beef and pork. With the exception of wheat,
Brazil is largely self-sufficient in basic food production, although some
staples (such as garlic, onwion, potatoes and even beans) are imported
seasonally and in years of poor crops. Half of the wheat consumed in Brazil
is still :Lmported. Over 1Sl67-74, the agricultural sector performed well in
meeting  domestic demand for food and fiber as well as supplying a rising
volume of export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite
adverse weaather conditions in three of the seven years. With the exception
of 1977, when agricultural output rose by 9.6%, the growth performance of
the sector has subsequently fallen below the 1967-74 average. Owing mainly
to severe droughts in producing areas, agricultural output during 1978
declined by about 2%. Subsistence and semi-commercial production and the
use of rudimentary technology continue to be widespread, particularly in
the Northeast, North and Center West. Real wages in agriculture have been
rising sharply in recent yesars, suggesting that the traditional pattern under
which the sector was a source of surplus labor for the rest of the economy,
may not continue indefinitiely.
Agricultural Development Policy
31.       In recent years growth in agricultural production has been sub-
stantial but has been due more to expansion of land under cultivation than
to improved productivity. However, the Government is now taking measures
aimed at a more efficient exploitation of Brazil's agricultural potential,
which include not only programs to increase the areas under production but
also programs to increase productivity, particularly among smaller farmers.
Acknowledging the urgency of increasing the productivity and incomes of the
rural poor, as well as to increase production generally, the Government has:
(i) allocated substantial public resources to incorporate new areas into
production through programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program)
and PROTERRA (the Program for Land Settlement and Stimulus to Agro-Industry
in the North and Northeast) and through development of regional development
"poles" in the North and Center-West, under the POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO
programs; (ii) promoted a significant expansion in the supply of agricultural
credit (most of it at subsidized rates), and of other production incentives;
(iii) initiated special regional programs such as the Development Program
for Integrated Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), established in 1974 to
improve small farmers' productivity in the Northeast through the preparation
and implementation of integrated rural development projects in selected
micro-regions; (iv) promoted specific crop and livestock production programs,
such as programs for pasture and herd development and programs to encourage
cacao and sugar production; and (v) reorganized the key federal research and
extension services, and taken steps to provide for their integration and
strengthening.
32.       One important aspect of the Government's agricultural policy is
its practice of encouraging a large volume of agricultural credit at sub-
sidized interest rates. For most of Brazil these rates now vary between 13%
and 21% per annum without monetary correction, which in Brazil's inflationary



- 10 -
environment means that they are negative in real terms. In the POLONORDESTE
program, the standard rate is now 10% without monetary correction. Credit
for fertilizer purchase is interest free. The subsidized interest rate
system was originally introduced in Brazil some years ago as a means of
compensating the agricultural sector for adverse terms of trade resulting
from high prices for fertilizer, machinery and other inputs. The subsidized
rates were also intended to provide an incentive to expand agricultural
production and, in the case of the Northeast, to give special help to a
disadvantaged part of the country. The main institutions extending agricul-
tural credit, the Banco do Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, are
able to extend this credit on subsidized terms by virtue of large interest-
free deposits which public agencies place with them, so that the financial
burden of the subsidies is borne by the public sector as a whole, rather
than by individual financial institutions. However, the system has severe
disadvantages, including possible leakages from the agricultural sector into
other sectors, the inequity of granting large farmers access to subsidized
credit, and, in the case of larger agricultural enterprises, the encourage-
ment of unduly capital intensive techniques. In the case of credit to very
small farmers, such as those being assisted under the proposed project, and
under other projects associated with POLONORDESTE, many of the beneficiaries
are below the poverty level and their individual programs are being inten-
sively supervised to ensure that the credit is used for the intended purposes.
Thus, the possible adverse effects of such subsidized credit are substantially
reduced.
33.       Bank staff have for several years conducted a dialogue with
the Government on this matter, and the Government is aware of the drawbacks
of the system. In the past year a few modifications have been made. Larger
farmers are now required to finance at least 25% of on-farm investments
with their own resources, and a sliding scale of rates has been established
charging larger farmers somewhat more than smaller farmers. The basic rate
in the Northeast has been increased from 7% to 10%.
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil I/
34.       The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about
35 million, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas, and it is growing at
a rate of 800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region has a semi-arid
climate, with periodic serious droughts and extensive areas of poor soils.
Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region, accounting
for 40% of the agriculturally employed population of Brazil. In 1977,
26.9% of the area harvested in Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout the
region, much of the food and industrial crops is produced by small farmers,
technology is unsophisticated and yields are poor, but farming systems are
adjusted to conditions prevailing: lack of credit for working capital or
investment; limited agricultural extension services; market isolation and
weak linkages with the regional economy; insecurity of land tenure; and, in
some areas, a difficult physical environment. These problems are compounded
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in
Northeast Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR, dated June 23, 1975).



- 11 -
by a high:Ly skewed distribution of land ownership. Less than 1% of the
total number of farm establishments account for 40% of the area, whereas in
some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns no land at all.
35.       To speed economic development in the Northeast, the Government
operates a special agency, the Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE),
and a special development bank for the Northeast, Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil (BNB). Substantial fiscal and monetary incentives have been made
available over the past decade for both industry and agriculture which have
transferried large amounts of fiscal resources from the wealthier regions
of Brazil to the Northeast., Past Government programs directed to the rural
population have often been in the areas of public works, with substantial
efforts being made in drought-prone areas to develop dams and ponds. The
POLONORDESTE program is helping to finance: (i) preparation and initial
implementation expenditures for new integrated rural development projects
in subregions selected for their expected development potential, and (ii)
the continuation or compleition of projects (particularly land settlement
and irrigation) begun or planned before the creation of POLONORDESTE. By
the end of 1977, around US$584 million had been allocated to these efforts.
The establishment of programs such as POLONORDESTE has helped to direct the
energies of various government bodies toward improving the agricultural
productivity of the rural poor. While at both the state and regional level,
the institutional capacity to plan, coordinate and execute the program still
requires strengthening, this program (and perhaps the associated Bank-assisted
rural development projects in particular) has already had some beneficial
impact o0n the design and execution of development programs for the rural
Northeast.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
36.       The Bank has so far made 15 loans, totalling US$543.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil.  These include two for livestock
development, amounting to US$60.5 million; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain storage; one, of US$40
million, for an agricultural research program for the Northeast, North and
Center-West of Brazil; one, of US$100 million, for the development of agri-
cultural extension services; and eight, totalling US$187.7 million, for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, seven of which
are located in the Northeast. In addition, there have been three loans,
totalling US$196 million fEor fertilizer production, a loan of US$19 million
for a nutrition research and development project and a loan of US$55 million
for a secondary and feeder roads project, which are having a direct impact
on agricultural production and development of the rural sector. The proposed
loan would be the seventh loan made for an integrated rural development project
in Brazil, and the sixth under the POLONORDESTE program.



- 12 -
37.       A combined Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has been issued
on the two livestock development projects. It shows that the second project
was cancelled after a major part of the loan had been disbursed, because of
a Government decision to introduce subsidized credit programs for this sub-
sector. A Project Completion Report has been prepared on the grain storage
project and the corresponding PPAR is expected shortly. The project faced
difficulties similar to those of the livestock projects. Implementation of
the several integrated rural development projects is progressing satisfactorily,
although there have been some delays, now being resolved, in the provision of
counterpart funding.  The Agro-Industries credit projects have been delayed
as a result of the imposition of credit ceilings in 1977 and the availability
of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates. Commitments should
accelerate in 1979 as a result of the Government's announced intention to
restrict the availability of subsidized credit. The agricultural research
project has been delayed due to hiring constraints imposed by the outgoing
administration, but is expected to improve now that the new Government has
taken office. The agricultural extension project is proceeding according to
schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was prepared by the POLONORDESTE Technical Unit of the
Secretariat of Planning of the State of Pernambuco, with the assistance
of other participating agencies and Bank staff. A Bank identification
mission visited Brazil in October 1977, followed by preparation missions in
January, March, April, June and July 1978, an appraisal mission in October
1978, and post-appraisal missions in December 1978 and April 1979. Prepara-
tion of the present project benefitted from the experience gained during
execution of other Bank-assisted rural development projects in the Northeast
of Brazil. Negotiations took place in Washington from April 23 to 27, 1979.
The Brazilian delegation was led by Mr. Ricardo Miranda, Coordinator of
POLONORDESTE. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Northeast Brazil
Pernambuco Rural Development Project" (No. 2418-BR dated May 22, 1979) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The State and the Project Area
39.       Pernambuco is one of2the central states in Northeast, Brazil, with
a land area of about 98,300 km and a population of about 5.85 million, 46% of
which is rural.  Agriculture contributes 25% to the value of goods and services
produced in the state and is based predominantly on the production of sugar.
Pernambuco is among the top six states in Brazil in the production of sugar,
tomatoes, onions, perennial cotton, bananas, pineapple and manioc.
40.       The project area of 10,823 km  covers about 11% of the state, and
contains about 1 million inhabitants, 16% of the state population. About
61% of the project area population are rural dwellers. The project area
includes 31 municipalities and covers the northern half of the Agreste
region of the state, between the arid Sertao to the west and the humid Zona
da Mata to the east. Ecological conditions in the project area are extremely
varied. The mean annual rainfall decreases from 1,100 mm in the east to 500



- 13 -
to 700 mm in the west, with enclaves of high rainfall near escarpments and
mountain ridges, and low rainfall in the central plains. Precipitation
occurs generally between March and August, with high annual variability.
Soils are of medium fertility, but often with good physical structure.
41.       Ilrbanization has bieen increasing within the project area, with
the urban population increasing from 29% to 39% of the total between 1960
and 1970. Caruaru, with a population of 100,000, increasing at 4.6% per
annum, is i:he largest city in the Agreste and lies in the geographic center
of the project area. It is a growing center for light industry, artesan
activities, and small scale enterprises and contains one of the largest
regional markets in the Northeast. Average annual income levels are low:
US$400 per annum in industrital and service occupations and US$222 per annum
in agriculture. 1/ Health and education services, though rapidly expanded
in recent years, are still weak. About 40% of school age children attend
school. Infant mortality is3 high (200 to 250 per thousand) and malnutrition
is widespread, affecting about 60% of the preschool age children. The road
network in the project area is well developed. However, municipal roads are
poorly maintained and many lbecome impassable during the rainy season. All
urban centers, including most district level villages are provided with
electricity. Although urban and municipal centers have water supply systems,
very few rural communities below this level have one. Some 28 public dams
are in operation in the project area, five of which provide water for
agricultural purposes.
42.       The distribution of land ownership is skewed in the project area,
with 8.2% of the farmers owning 62.5% of the land under farms. The average
farm size of 19 ha is small and about 45% of the farmers who own their land
have less than 5 ha. It is estimated that some 38% of the project area
farmers are landless. The project area accounts for a disproportionately high
share of the state's production of the traditional food crops, fruit, vegetables
and milk. About 80% of the project area is cultivatable land, with 1% in
permanent crops, 36% in temporary crops, and 63% in pasture. In addition to
the production of the traditional subsistence crops (manioc, beans and corn),
in which ithe project area accounts for some 20% of state output, milk, cotton,
tomatoes and pineapples are also important, each accounting for over 30% of
state production in 1975. Productivity in the project area is below the
already low state average, except for specialty crops such as pineapples and
carrots. Most of the small farmers have some cattle, and mixed farming is
gradually expanding to reduce risks due to variations in the climate. Tradi-
tional crops are planted in a variety of intercropping systems, mainly
manioc, beans and maize, or cotton, beans and maize. Agricultural services
are credit oriented and aimed at the larger farmers. The area is served by
the State Rural Extension Company, EMATER-PE, with offices in 25 of the
31 municipalities.
43.       The project area has a fairly well developed small-scale industrial
sector, which includes some 29% of the registered industrial enterprises in
the state. Value added is a much lower share of the state total (4%). Small
enterprises engage in various industrial and artesan activities, and the
provision, of services has developed in the principal urban centers.
1/   Source:  "A Economia de Pernambuco", UFPe, Recife, 1975.



- 14 -
Prolect Oblectives
44.       The proposed project, which is part of the Government's POLONORDESTE
program, is intended to increase productivity and incomes, broaden economic
opportunities, and generally to improve the living standards of low income
farmers and small non-farm entrepreneurs in the project area. A second
important objective is to improve the statewide effectiveness of institutions
participating in the project. The objectives of the proposed project would
be achieved by:
(a) strengthening agricultural extension; introducing adaptive
agricultural research; improving seed supply, water
storage facilities, and mechanization services; and
carrying out land tenure studies;
(b) providing credit and technical assistance to 15,540 small
farmers having no more than 50 ha of land, living on or near
their farms and deriving more than 50% of their family
income from agricultural activities;
(c) improving input supply and storage and marketing services,
including assistance to eight agricultural cooperatives;
(d) providing technical assistance and training to 2,700
small non-farm enterprises, having less than 10 employees,
with fixed assets below 200 MVR 1/ (US$12,000) and with
owner income under 8 MVR (US$480) per month;
(e) improving basic infrastructure through the upgrading of
about 950 km of municipal roads;
(f) expanding and improving educational and health services,
including training, and the construction and upgrading of
health centers, village water supply systems, sanitary
installations, and schools; and
(g) strengthening project management, including monitoring
and evaluation.
Project Components
45.       Credit.  The component would include:  (a) incremental short-term
credit for annual crops and the establishment of up to two year cycle crops;
and (b) medium- and long-term credit for the establishment of permanent
crops, for livestock and for improvements in on-farm installations. Credit
for livestock purchase would only be provided as part of an integrated crop
1/   The MVR (maior valor de referencia), established in 1975, is a standard
unit of value used in various financial transactions. Originally based
on the minimum wage, it is now adjusted each May by the cumulative index
of monetary correction for the previous 12 months. One MVR equalled
about Cr$1,150 or US$60 at appraisal.



- 15 -
and livestock development plan (Section 2.14(ii) of the draft Project Agree-
ment).  Farmers eligible for credit would be either landless or those who
own or cult:ivate no more than 50 ha (Section 2.14(i) of the draft Project
Agreement), derive the majority of their family income from farm operations
and live oni or near the farm. The limit on farm size has been established
taking into account ecologic:al conditions in the project area. Portions of
the project area extend into the arid Sertao, where inadequate rainfall
and poor soils make a farmer with up to 50 ha a member of the lowest income
group. It is expected that the majority of the potential 15,540 beneficiary
farmers would receive institutional credit for the first time.
46.       Project credit would be channeled to farmers through 10 branches of
BB and 3 branches of BNB located in or near the project area. The Government
would maintain existing agreements with these banks to ensure their collabora-
tion. Additional participating banks can only be included after approval by
the Bank (Section 3.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Credit terms and
conditions would be those established by the Government for the POLONORDESTE
program, namely, interest tD the farmer at 10%, unindexed, for both invest-
ment and seasonal credit, with repayment terms for investment credit of up to
12 years, including a grace period of up to six years. The Government would
advise the Bank promptly of any changes in these terms and conditions (Section
3.03(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Given Brazil's inflation rate,
the interEtst rates adopted by Government for POLONORDESTE projects are negative
in real terms. The potential misallocation of resources would be mitigated by
the fact that the beneficiaries, small farmers with incomes below the poverty
level, would be closely supervised by the rural extension agents and by
project monitoring and evaluation. To ensure that project credit would be
made avaiLable to as large a number of project farmers as possible, and that
the focus on small-scale operations is achieved, Bank disbursements would be
limited to subloans to farmLers whose total debt outstanding is less than 100
MVR (Sect:ion 1.01(o) of the draft Loan Agreement). Regarding seasonal crop
credit, s:ince subloans would, on average, be repaid within one year, the
Government would make these funds available each subsequent year for reapplica-
tion under the project crecdit component. Bank disbursements for seasonal crop
credit in each POLONORDESTEU fiscal year (April to March) would begin only
after aggregate project working capital credit exceeds the comparable amount
extended under POLONORDESTE in the project area in the previous fiscal year
(Section 3.03(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Extension.  EMATER-PE would play a key role in project implementa-
tion. Its extension agents would promote increased small farmer use of
improved agricultural technology and provide advice and information on
marketing. A group approach to extension would be developed, with tech-
nicians working with groups of 10 to 20 farmers which would meet periodi-
cally. I'he extensionist would be backed by specialists. The field staff of
agricultural extension agents would expand from 34 to 165 over five years,
regional technical staff from nine to 16, and social extensionists from six
to 40. Extension service activities would be directed to 63 areas identified
as having the highest concentration of small farmers and the best development
prospects. To ensure timely execution of EMATER-PE's new responsibilities and
expandingr operations, the project would provide for consultant services during
the first two years of the project. EMATER-PE would be strengthened through
the financing of: (a) purchases of vehicles and equipment; (b) salaries and
training during the first four years of employment of the incremental extension



- 16 -
service staff including 25 extensionists recently employed for the project;
(c) incremental operating costs during the project period; (d) pre- and
in-service training for extension agents and farmers; and (e) consultants.
The Government would engage the services of consultants before December 31,
1979 (Section 3.02(A)(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Agricultural Research.  The proposed component would concentrate on
adapting and testing seven crops under different intercropping farming systems
through the carrying out of about 34 annual experiments at the farm level at
various locations in the project area. The State Agricultural Research Agency
would conduct the experiments and would establish a framework for incorporating
extensionists and farmers into the program to obtain optimal coordination and
dissemination of results. Items to be financed include vehicles, equipment,
materials for research purposes, incremental personnel and operating costs
during the five-year project period. The first-year program focuses on
intercropping farming systems in 13 municipalities, as well as determination
of the response of varieties to local conditions.
49.       Seed Supply.  The State Department of Plant Production (DPV)
presently establishes contracts with farmers who reproduce improved seeds
and planting materials. The problem in the past has been that come harvest
time, the DPV has not had sufficient funds to purchase the improved seeds
and planting materials it has contracted for, resulting in irregularities in
the supply of these materials to the farmers. To resolve this problem the
State Government would take all necessary steps to ensure the availability
of funds required by DPV to purchase the annually contracted seed production
(Section 2.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement). To ensure better seed
production coordination and distribution the project would finance the
incremental equipment, materials, personnel and operating costs needed to
permit DPV to expand its operations. DPV would give priority to the needs
of target beneficiaries in the project area (Section 2.05(b) of the draft
Project Agreement).
50.       Water Conservation.  In order to increase the availability of water
for human consumption and for agricultural purposes, the component would
include:  (a) climatological studies in the project area including an evalua-
tion of water quality and water availability; (b) the preparation of a manual
of technical requirements for direct rainfall collection, dam construction and
protection, water uses, and quality control for each of the various ecological
regions in the project area; (c) training of extensionists in on-farm water
management; (d) improvement of the State Integrated Agricultural Services
Company (CISAGRO) tractor workshop in Caruaru and purchase of eight tractors;
and (e) design and construction of two communal dams and preparation of their
operational guidelines. The experience gained with these demonstration dams
could serve as a model for future expansion of water storage systems. CISAGRO
would be responsible for tractor services and dam construction, and the
Project Management Unit (PMU) of POLONORDESTE for coordinating studies and
training. The Government would hire consultants to perform the necessary
studies by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.02(A)(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The State Government would provide the Bank for review and comment before
December 31, 1980, the climatological studies and the manual on water conserv-
ation; CISAGRO would improve the tractor maintenance services and the operation
of the Caruaru workshop, by December 31, 1980; and nine CISAGRO tractors would
be maintained in operation in the project area, in addition to those tractors



- 17 -
purchased under the project (Sections 2.03(b)(v) and 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement). It would be a condition of disbursement for the construction of
the communal demonstration dams that construction plans including the designs
have been approved by the Bank, the evaluation of water quality and availabil-
ity has been approved by the Bank, farmer associations to construct, operate
and maintain the dams have been established, the manual on water conservation
has been completed, and the extension agents have been trained in water con-
servation techniques (Schedule I paragraph 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Assistance to Cooperative Societies.  The project would use
cooperatives, among other agencies, to provide services necessary to support
small farm development. Under the component, whose execution would be
coordinated by EMATER-PE, eight agricultural cooperatives dispersed through-
out the project region in areas of agricultural potential, with a concentra-
tion of small farmers, would be assisted in a phased fashion with: (a) admi-
nistrative and managerial gtLidance including the financing of studies and
key administrative personnel for three years; (b) cooperative education
to improve member participation; and (c) training of personnel from a broad
selection of cooperatives in management, administration and marketing
techniques. The State Government would follow guidelines acceptable to the
Bank in selecting cooperatives for project assistance, and agreements would
be entered into with the cooperatives receiving project assistance on
administrative and auditing requirements and on the maintenance of adequate
staffing (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Marketing.  To ensure adequate marketing services and to resolve
potential bottlenecks, the component, to be coordinated by EMATER-PE, would:
(a) improve the availability to small farmers, of price and volume information
for area products through two-way radio communication between the State
Market Ini'ormation Service (SIMA), EMATER-PE and cooperatives; (b) provide
small assembly warehouses and trucks to the cooperatives assisted under the
cooperatives component to etnable them to participate in the marketing of
members' produce; (c) train staff in institutions engaged in marketing
activities in the project area; (d) provide a program of marketing informa-
tion for Earmers on local radio stations; (e) conduct studies of marketing
problems of 12 crops produced in the area; and (f) study small farmers'
participation in local markets to identify ways of improving their position
with respect to intermediaries. The studies would make recommendations on
the construction of municipal market facilities for small farmers. The
commodity marketing studies and the municipal markets studies would be
provided to the Bank for comment, when available, or by December 31, 1980
(Section 2.03(b)(v) of the draft Project Agreement). It would be a condition
of disbursement for construction of market facilities that they be based on
plans satisfactory to the Bank and that an agreement has been signed between
the state and the respective municipalities to ensure proper maintenance
(Schedulet 1, paragraph 3(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Milk processing and pasteurizing facilities have not expanded as
rapidly as production, and may have difficulty in absorbing incremental
project production. The state, fully aware of possible difficulties and
that the potential demand for pasteurized milk in urban areas exceeds current
production, recently increased production at two processing plants, and has



- 18 -
initiated in-depth studies to determine measures to ensure adequate processing
capacity. Before December 31, 1979, the State Government would furnish to the
Bank for comment copies of the studies, together with any recommendations then
available, and thereafter the final recommendations, and would take all
measures necessary to ensure that the milk processing capacity in the eastern
part of the state would be adequate to absorb the incremental milk production
in the project area (Section 2.15 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Feeder Roads.  The component, to be executed by the State Highway
Department (DER-PE), would include: (a) the upgrading to all-weather
standards of some 950 km of municipal roads, with the necessary consultant
services; (b) procurement of road construction and maintenance equipment;
and (c) training of key municipal road maintenance staff. No new construc-
tion is proposed as the existing network would be adequate to meet project
requirements, provided it is upgraded and well maintained. The specific roads
to be improved, the design specifications, the proposed schedules, and methods
of execution would be approved by the Bank (Section 2.10(d) of the draft
Project Agreement). Consultants to assist in the preparation of engineering
designs would be hired before December 31, 1979 (Section 3.02(A)(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Written agreements (convenios) would be entered into
with municipalities to ensure that sufficient funds would be provided to
maintain the feeder roads in accordance with an agreed program before any road
improvements are undertaken in the municipality. The State Government would
maintain and renew maintenance equipment for project area roads and charges
for use of DER-PE maintenance equipment would cover operation, maintenance and
depreciation expenses (Sections 2.10(b) and (c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Final agreement on the full-time staff needed in DER-PE would be a condition
for disbursement for project expenditures related to the road component
(Schedule 1, paragraph 3(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Small Non-farm Enterprises.  The component, to be executed by the
Northeast Union for Assistance to Small Enterprises (UNO), would support
the development of existing small non-farm enterprises in the project area
related to a variety of activities such as food processing, carpentry,
ceramics, sewing, leather work, small retail store operations and services
such as those provided by mechanics, electricians and stonemasons. The
component would provide: (a) equipment and staffing for seven UNO offices
in the project area; (b) the training of extensionists, (c) the training of
about 400 small-scale entrepreneurs; and (d) studies on local production
problems and intermediate technology. Credit would be provided from estab-
lished credit lines. Assistance would only be provided to small enterprises
with less than 10 employees, fixed assets of less than 200 MVR (US$12,000),
annual sales under 1,000 MVR (US$60,000) and monthly owner income of under 8
MVR (US$480) (Section 2.06(i) of the draft Project Agreement). It is
expected that about 2,700 micro-enterprises would benefit directly from this
program and 3,700 new jobs would be created. The State Government would make
arrangements with the banks to ensure the availability of credit for the
development of small non-farm enterprises assisted under the project (Section
2.06(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). This component replicates a similar
Bank effort being executed succcessfully under the Paraiba Rural Development
Project (Loan No. 1537-BR).



- 19 -
56.       Village Water Supply.  Activities to be financed would include:
(a) preparation of the engineering designs; (b) construction of 36 systems
to benefit some 28,500 families; (c) purchase of operating tools and equip-
ment and (d) preparation of maintenance manuals and training and supervision
of operating staff. The State Water Supply and Sanitation Company (COMPESA)
would prepare the standard engineering designs and manuals and the details
of the training program and present them for comment to the Bank when they
become available, but not later than December 31, 1980 (Section 2.03(b)(v)
of the draft Project Agreement). It would submit for Bank approval prior to
construction, individual designs whose cost exceeds US$120 per beneficiary
household (Section 2.16(a) of the draft Project Agreement). It would be a
condition of disbursement fcor construction of these systems that the standard
designs have been approved by the Bank and that responsibility for their
operation and maintenance haes been assumed by COMPESA or a community associa-
tion (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Education and TraiLning.  The education and training component, to
be executed by the State Secretariat of Education (SEC), would include:
(a) the construction and equipping of 60 primary schools, providing 8,400
student places, double shift; (b) the construction and equipping of 15
intermediate schools for a total of 4,200 students, double shift; (c) the
construction and equipping of one Rural Education Center for both formal and
non-formal training programs; (d) the training and/or upgrading of about
1,600 supervisors and teachers, and about 170 state and municipal school
administrators and staff; (e) the provision of non-formal training programs
for the adult target population in the project area; (f) studies to identify
training requirements and educational needs; (g) technical assistance; and
(h) the strengthening of the administrative and supervisory capacity of SEC.
The criteria for the location of the schools would be satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement) and the site plans for
schools would be approved by the Bank (Section 2.04(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). Disbursements against construction costs would be conditioned
upon proviLsion to the Bank of satisfactory evidence of acquisition of the
respective sites (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
To ensure the effectiveness of the education component, the State Government
would give priority placeMent to project trained school supervisiors and
technical personnel and prior to construction of project primary schools, it
would enter into agreements with the respective municipalities assuring
priority placement of project upgraded teachers and appropriate salaries for
these teachers. The State Government would also arrange for adequate
funding to maintain appropriately the educational facilities and services
developed under the project, and support project municipalities where
necessary in financing recurrent expenditures generated by the project
(Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, by April
1, 1980, the SEC would provide the Bank, for comment, with the results of
the studies on manpower training requirements and educational needs (Section
2.03(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       Health and Sanitation.  The component, to be implemented by the
State Secretariat of Health (SES), would build on the recent expansion of
the health system, particularly the network of 110 village health posts.
Project activities would include: (a) construction of and equipment for two



- 20 -
regional and two local health centers and the upgrading of 20 local health
centers; (b) construction and placing of 5,660 pit latrines; (c) training or
replacement of staff for the various health care facilities and of community
health agents and courses for local staff and the professional team managing
the program at the regional and local level; (d) construction of storage
facilities and vehicles to serve health posts and local health centers; and
(e) development of an improved health administration system in two of the
regional departments of the SES. Technical assistance would be provided to
review health administration problems in the two regional departments selected
and to make recommendations for improvement (Section 3.02(B) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The salaries of two health administrators and one nurse would be
financed under the project for two years to implement acceptable recommenda-
tions. SES would present proposals to improve the administrative structure of
the health services in the project area to the Bank, for comment, by October 30,
1980 (Section 2.03(b)(iv) of the draft Project Agreement). Disbursements for
the construction of health centers would be conditioned on the Bank receiving
satisfactory evidence of the acquisition of the respective sites (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Management.  The Technical Unit (TU) of POLONORDESTE in Pernambuco
is responsible for the implementation of the four POLONORDESTE projects in
the state. A Project Management Unit (PMU) within the TU of POLONORDESTE
would be expanded and would assume responsibility for the administration and
monitoring of the project, as well as the coordination of the activities of
all executing agencies. The PMU would also coordinate the engagement of
consultants and the execution of special studies of the various project
components. To carry out its administrative and management functions the
PMU would expand its office in Recife and open a regional office in Caruaru
in the center of the project area. The PMU would be staffed by a project
manager, an assistant project manager, a regional coordinator, eight tech-
nical assistants, and support staff. The State Government would adequately
maintain the PMU, support the other state agencies participating in the
project, appoint qualified personnel to fill all positions and would consult
the Bank should the project manager or the regional coordinator have to be
replaced (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). To ensure an effective
start-up of project implementation, the project would provide consultancy
services for 24 man-months to assist the project manager in establishing his
organization, promoting the project, and setting up the monitoring system
(Section 3.02(A)(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       To carry out the monitoring function, quarterly reports would
be prepared and provided to the Bank (Section 3.06(b)(iii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).  The basic information for monitoring would be provided by the
executing agencies and the PMU. This information would be synthesized into a
single report by PMU, and would be circulated to members of the POLONORDESTE
Management Council, the Evaluation team, the executing agencies and the Bank
for comment. The PMU would feed the relevant monitoring information back to
the local levels during ensuing field visits. The monitoring team would take
the lead within the PMU in preparing the Project Completion Report. This
report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank within six months after
final disbursement (Section 3.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
61.       Provision is made in this component for studies to find the best
method for offering land purchase credit and land titling services for small
farmers and sharecroppers because ownership of sufficient land and security of
tenure are important for small farm development. The proposed project would
finance consultant services to perform these studies and the costs of the
institutional structure needed to implement acceptable proposals. Consultants
would be engaged before December 31, 1979 (Section 3.02(A)(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The studies would be concluded by June 30, 1980 (Section
2.03(b)(iii) of the draft Project Agreement). The Project Management Unit of
POLONORDESTE would be responsible for execution of the studies.  The results
and proposaLs coming from the studies would be discussed with the Bank. It
would be a condition of disbursement for the staffing and equipping of the
institutional structure that the proposals to be implemented are acceptable
to the Bank (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(h) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       The evaluation of project impact and results would be executed by
an independent entity -- the Integrated Master's Program of Economics and
Social Studies of the Federal University of Pernambuco (UFPe) -- which would
report directly to the POLONIORDESTE Management Council. The evaluation
exercise wculd consist of baseline studies, an annual evaluation of project
implementation and a post project evaluation. The pre-project situation would
be established by three baseline studies concerning: (a) the present health
situation, (b) the present situation in education and (c) the actual level of
income of small farmers and employment, in the project area. The annual eval-
uation, usiLng monitoring data and spot-checks as required, would call the
attention of management to existing development trends in the project area and
make proposals for project adjustment where appropriate. The Bank would be
provided with a definitive e-valuation program before December 31, 1979
(Section 2.03(b)(i) of the draft Project Agreement). The post project evalua-
tion exercise would describe final project impact and assist project management
in preparing the Completion Report. The Post-Project Evaluation Report would
be prepared and submitted to the Bank within eight months after final disburse-
ment (Section 3.06(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operating Agreements and Procedures
63.       Since the project covers a broad range of activities, the timing
and scope of some would undoubtedly require adjustment as experience is
gained. Thus, each participating agency would prepare jointly with the PMU
an annual plan detailing the activities and expected expenditures under the
project for the following year, to coincide with POLONORDESTE's fiscal year.
The integrated package of annual plans (the work program), as reviewed and
approved by the State POLONORDESTE Management Council, would then be sub-
mitted to the regional and federal POLONORDESTE coordinating groups as a
basis for yearly budget allocations. The work program would be submitted to
the Bank by November 30 each year for review and comment. The work program
would be reviewed promptly by the regional POLONORDESTE group and the Bank
would be advised of the approved program by January 31 each year (Section 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Consistent with common practice in Brazil, the State Government
through the Management Council and the TU of POLONORDESTE would enter into
written agreements (convenLos) with the executing agencies to specify their



- 22 -
respective responsibilities under the project and help ensure timely project
completion. The State Government would enter into and maintain during the
project execution period all such agreements as are necessary to ensure
active cooperation and execution responsibilities of the various participat-
ing agencies; and it would cause agreements to be entered into between the
various executing agencies and the corresponding municipalities or community
associations to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of project facili-
ties and services prior to the construction of civil works for feeder roads,
schools, health centers, water supply systems, communal demonstration dams
and municipal markets (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
Receipt by the Bank of satisfactory signed agreements between the executing
agency for each component, except for the Credit and Management Components,
and the POLONORDESTE Management Council, delineating implementation and
funding responsibilities, would be a condition of disbursement for each
component (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing                             0
65.       Total project costs over the five year project period (April 1,
1979 to March 30, 1984) are estimated at US$116.7 million. This includes
taxes of US$2.3 million and physical contingencies, estimated at 5% of the
baseline cost, and price contingencies, estimated at 24% of baseline cost
plus physical contingencies. Baseline costs in October 1978 prices, were
estimated in cruzeiros at the rate of US$1.00 = Cr$ 19.15.
66.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would finance 35% of project costs net of taxes (34% of
total project costs), the balance being financed by the Government under the
POLONORDESTE program. The loan would be for 15 years, including three years
of grace. It would cover the project's foreign exchange costs of US$18
million, as well as US$22 million, or 22%, of the local costs. This project
has a high priority, but a relatively low foreign exchange tcomponent (16%).
Hence, if the Bank is to be effective in supporting a project of this kind,
it seems reasonable for it to finance at least 34% of the total project
costs even though this entails financing a part of local currency expendi-
tures. The Government would ensure that adequate funds would be made
available promptly for the effective and timely execution of the project and
for the adequate operation and maintenance of the facilities and services
developed under the project (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
State Government would ensure that it would arrange for timely acquisition
and necessary financing of any additional land or rights of way necessary
for project works (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
67.       Farm inputs and investment items including construction of small
reservoirs and dams would be procured by individual farmers through local
trade channels. All equipment, tractors and vehicles required are locally
produced and readily available. Such items (totalling US$2.2 million) would
be procured in accordance with local procurement and bidding procedures,
which are acceptable. Construction works for feeder road improvement (total-
ling US$12.4 million) would be planned annually on the basis of field surveys
and divided in construction lots per municipality for Class A, B and C roads.



- 23 -
The Bank would review the construction standards bidding and contract documents
before the first round of bidding (Schedule 4, paragraph C.1 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Contracts for these works and for civil works required for the
rural primary schools and the rural educational center, health centers and
market placEs (an additional US$3.9 million) would be awarded to prequalified
bidders on t:he basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with procedures which are satisfactory. Brazil has a competitive local
construction industry capable of carrying out the project works. Water supply
works (tota:Lling US$2.6 million) would be constructed by COMPESA by force
account or by prequalified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised local:Ly. Since the individual construction works are relatively small
and quite dLspersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested,
though they would not be excluded from bidding. All other construction work,
including storage facilities, sanitation installations and two demonstration
dams (totalling US$1.3 million), are small and dispersed, and would be carried
out under local bidding, self-help or, in the case of the small dams, by force
account. Consultancy services (totalling US$2.4 million) would include about
800 man-months (at an average cost of US$3,000 per month).
Disbursements
68.       The proposed loan would be disbursed at the rate of 34% of project
expenditures for each component. Disbursements would be made to the Central
Bank of Brazil, the fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE program, against
withdrawal applications covering statements of expenditures initiated by the
various executing agencies under the project and certified by the Project
Management Unit of POLONORDESTE in Recife. Supporting documentation for
credit, salaries, administrative expenses and minor construction under force
account would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the PMU
and made avrailable for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision missions. Standard documentation covering civil works, vehicles,
tractors and equipment and consultancies and technical assistance would be
'submitted :o the Bank. Disbursements would be against expenditures made in
accordance with the project's annual work program. Disbursements are expected
to be made over about five years. Since the proposed project builds on an
ongoing project, and to ensture a smooth transition, retroactive financing of
up to US$1.5 million equivalent is proposed to finance eligible expenditures
incurred after the beginning of the POLONORDESTE fiscal year, April 1, 1979.
Disbursements for each component except the Credit and Management Components
would be conditioned by receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory signed agreement
between the POLONORDESTE Management Council and the corresponding executing
agency (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disburse-
ments for the construction of the communal demonstration dams would be condi-
tioned by: approval of the plans by the Bank, approval of the evaluation of
water quality and availability by the Bank, establishment of the farmer asso-
ciations, completion of the manual on water conservation, and completion of
tcaining of the extension agents in water conservation techniques (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3(c) of the draft Loan Agrement). Disbursements for the construc-
tion of municipal marketing facilitles would be conditioned by approval by
the Bank of the plans for their construction and the signing of an agreement



- 24 -
between the state the respective municipalities to assure proper maintenance
(Schedule 1, paragraph 3(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for
the feeder roads component would be conditioned by agreement between DER-PE
and the Bank on the full-time staff needed by DER-PE (Schedule 1, paragraph
3(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for construction of village
water supply systems would be conditioned by approval of the standard designs
by the Bank and by assumption of the systems' operation and maintenance respon-
sibilities by COMPESA or by community associations (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(f)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for construction of schools and
health centers would be conditioned by receipt by the Bank of satisfactory
evidence of acquisition of the respective sites (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(g)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements for the staffing and equipping
of the institutional structure for providing land purchase credit and/or land
titling services would be conditioned by approval by the Bank of the proposals
(Schedule 1, paragraph 3(h) of the draft Loan Agreement. Disbursements for each
component except the Credit and Management Components would be conditioned by
receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory signed agreement between the POLONORDESTE
Management Council and the corresponding executing agency (Schedule 1, paragraph
3(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
69.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government
auditors according to standard Government practice for POLONORDESTE projects.
Both BB and BNB are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit and BNB is
also audited by independent auditors. The PMU would maintain accounts of its
own project expenditures as well as statements of expenditures by each execu-
ting agency. Copies of the audited statements of project accounts of the
various participating agencies and the PMU and of the audited statements of
the participating banks and of their lending under the project would be
provided to the Bank through the PMU within six months of the end of each
POLONORDESTE fiscal year (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
70.       The costs (including contingencies) of the productive support
components focusing directly on the 15,540 farm families that constitute
the target group for the project (credit, extension, research and seed
supply) would amount to about US$4,530 per family over the five years of
project execution. Investments in social and physical infrastructure,
broader based agricultural services and project management would benefit
mainly the 40,000 farm families in the project concentration areas, result-
ing in a cost per beneficiary family of US$1,070.  Project investments
in support services for small non-farm enterprises would cost US$1,310
per beneficiary enterprise.  The impact of project investments is clearly
not confined to those beneficiaries mentioned, but would have a broader
influence extending to the one million inhabitants of the project area.
71.       Assuming a continuing inflation rate similar to the average over
the last three years (42%), real recovery of on-farm project costs could well
be low. However, either a decline in inflation and/or a continuation of the
gradual reduction in the size of agricultural credit subsidies linked to a



- 25 -
general dismantling of controls over agricultural prices would result in
higher reaL cost recovery. Following the five-year project disbursement
period, project investments would give rise to additional recurrent costs to
the State Government on the order of US$3 million per annum, decreasing to
US$1.5 milLion in year 12. These expenses would be incurred p:incipally for
rural and small non-farm enterprise research and extension services and feeder
road maintienance. The additional recurrent expenditures are expected, however,
to be totally offset by addiitional revenues of roughly US$7.2 million generated
annually as a result of the circulation (ICM) and social security (FUNRURAL)
taxes, which would apply to incremental production from direct farmer partici-
pants and from the small non-farm enterprises assisted under the project.
Benefits
72.       The economic rate of return for project activities relating to
agricultural production is estimated at about 22%. Project activities linked
only indirectly to agriculture such as improved health services, rural water
supply systems, education and training have an important impact on the
standard of living of rural families in the project area, but their direct
benefits are not readily quantifiable, and they have not been included in the
cost benefit calculation.
73.       The cost streams used in the rate of return analysis of agricultural
activities include: (a) all on-farm investments and incremental operating
costs (based on the phased aggregate of the different types of participants);
and (b) all off-farm investments related to agricultural development:
(i) during the five-year investment period: extension, research, seed supply,
water conservation, cooperatives, marketing, feeder roads, project administra-
tion and project evaluation; and (ii) operating costs for the period after
project imaplementation. Overall, 88% of total project costs without price
contingencies were included in the cost stream for the analysis of agricultural
production. The benefit stream for the analysis of agricultural production
included l:he incremental on-farm benefits of the incremental crop and
livestock production by project participants. Projected farmgate prices for
internationally traded goods were adjusted where necessary to reflect
projected border prices for these products, discounted to the farmgate
level. Foreign exchange components of costs and benefits were adjusted
upward by 30% to reflect trade distorting tariffs, subsidies, advance import
deposits, export taxes and quantitative restrictions. The project should
generate approximately 14,L00 new jobs. This includes 9,800 on-farm jobs,
of which about 50% would be met by family labor; 3,700 non-farm jobs at an
investment cost of US$1,50() per job, well below alternative employment
creation costs in industry; and 600 project related jobs.
74.       The economic return from project activities aimed at developing
small non-farm enterprises was also analyzed. Some 2,300 micro-enterprises
would receive technical assistance and would be assisted with credit applica-
tions. An additional 400 entrepreneurs would receive more general training
and technical assistance. The rate of return for this component was estimated
at 49%. When the cost and benefit streams are included with those of the
agricultural production analysis, the rate of return for the project as a
whole increases to 23.6%.



- 26 -
75.       As a result of the project, the estimated farm family income would
increase from a weighted average of about US$757 equivalent to about US$2,130
equivalent at full development. The estimated income of all project partici-
pants is currently below the relative poverty level in Brazil of US$330
per capita, or US$1,650 per family. Many farm families supplement their
income by working on other farms, or in small-scale industrial or commercial
activities in the region.
Project Production and Beneficiaries
76.       At full development (about year 10) there should be substantial
increases in production among project participants. The incremental produc-
tion would be derived from (a) expansion of the area under improved pastures;
and (b) the increase of productivity through improved management and
technology, as well as off-farm investments, particularly in roads, storage
facilities, extension and research and agricultural information services.
At estimated 1978 farmgate prices, incremental annual production at full
development is expected to amount to US$35.2 million. Value of production
per hectare is expected to increase about 143%, from US$226 to US$550 for
the expected 15,540 direct farmer beneficiaries. Benefits from the produc-
tion support components, and especially the social and physical infrastruc-
ture components, would accrue to the 40,000 farm families in the project
concentration areas, most of whose annual incomes are below US$330 per
capita, the relative poverty level for Brazil. In addition, the project
would provide support for the development of some 2,700 small non-farm
enterprises, further enhancing the positive effect on living standards.
Project Risks
77.       The project's success requires the commitment of the managerial
staff of the participating agencies to coordinate and implement a wide variety
of activities at local, regional and federal levels. The risk of not achieving
adequate interagency cooperation is, however, lessened by the arrangements
being made to involve the POLONORDESTE Management Council more actively in
project implementation, to strengthen the PMU for the project, to nominate a
full-time project liaison officer in each of the participating agencies, and
to work with detailed agreements outlining each agency's responsibilities.
Other risks lie in the limited experience of the participating agencies in
carrying out large projects oriented towards low income groups in rural areas
and in the limited absorption capacity at the local level of such concentrated
assistance efforts. The preparation and review of detailed annual work plans
with the participating agencies, the additional consulting services, and
continuous project monitoring and evaluation should help resolve problems that
might arise in this respect. An additional risk lies in the effect a prolonged
drought would have on project production. Allowances have been made in the
calculation of incremental production for expected losses due to insufficient
rainfall, but the risk of a prolonged drought has to be accepted in the
Northeast of Brazil. Overall, the potential of the productive components to
(a) increase the value of agricultural production by US$35.2 million annually
and the small-scale industry output by US$16.5 million annually; (b) provide
about 14,100 new jobs; and (c) improve the living standards of at least 40,000
lower income rural families (200,000 people), make the project risks acceptable.



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Pernambuco and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special disbursement conditions are described in para. 68.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 4, 1979
Washington D. C.



- 28 -                                           ANNEX I
Page I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1M.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    2066.0                               MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                320.0       580.0   1390.0           1066.7    1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    332.0       474.0    670.0            911.1    1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       69.8        92.8    113.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5       55.7      61.4            57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       8.0        11.0      13.3            25.6       27.6        55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.0        49.0      55.0            77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.0        42.0      41.7            42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                        54.0        55.0      55.1            52.2       56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.0       3.2             3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
iiTAL                             3.0         3.0       2.8             2.7        1.6         2.9
URBAN                             5.5         5.0       4.4             4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.8        38.4      37.1            35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    11.7         9.9       8.8             9.1        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.6         2.6       2.5             2.6        1.9         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         1.6        *-            15.1       19.3.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            87.8       100.0    112.3            102.1      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 102.0       104.0    105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         61.0        64.0      62.1            60.3       77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      38.0        39.0      33.6            26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..             8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   56.0        59.4      61.4            62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          180.0      110.0        ..            56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        56.3      71.7            60.7       67.7        83.0
URBAN                              ..        77.7      83.2            78.0       83.5       100.0
RURAL                              *-        29.0      52.9            34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        59.9      65.5            61.1       70.3        57.8
URBAN                              ..        86.1      86.3            80.3       90.7        99.3
RURAL                              ..        26.5      39.0            25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2170.0     1910.0   1650.0 /f        1899.3    1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3220.0   2920.0 /f        1220.1      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           275.0       260.0    260.0            422.3      275.4       325.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           258.2      129.9       250.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         18.0       ..            25.6       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1         4.8        ..             5.2        3.9
URBAN                              ..         4.6        ..
RURAL                              ..         5.2        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.1      1.1 /f          2.0        0.9
URBAN                              ..          1.0      1.2 7T          2.1        0.8
RURAL                                         1.2       1.2 /f          2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6      55.1            51.2       59.2
URBAN                              '-        75.6      77.9            77.3       78.0
RURAL                               *-         8.4    1B2.5            12.8       12.5



ANNEX I
-  2 9  -                                    Page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BP.AZIL                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EIIROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 95.0        83.0      90.0           103.5       97.6        104.1
FEMALE               93.0        83.0      90.0           102.9       87.4        120.3
SECONDARYr:  TOTAL                11.0        27.0      26.0            37.2       47.8        44.7
FEMALE               10.0        27.0      20.0            37.9       42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0        17.0      47.0 /R         14.7       22.7         18.7
FUPIL-TEACHEP RATIO
PRIMARY                           33,0        28.0      22.0            32.8       23.4         30.6
SECONDARY                         13.0        13.0      11.0            17.8       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        66.0        ..            74.9       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        25.0      35.0            26.9       32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.0        60.0      60.0           173.5      201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0      83.0            69.4       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND 1'OPULATION                54.0        37.0      39.0            72.8       70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         1.9        ..             4.3        4.4
EKPLOYMENT
TOTAL LASU)R FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0    29400.0   34100.0
FEMALE lPERCENT)                  17.5        20.4      21.6            21.4        17.4       26.9
AGRICULURE (PERCENT)             52.0        40.4      37.8            37.8       38.4         25.7
INDUSTR'1 (PERCENT)               14.8        18.3        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0        31.6      31.5            30.8       33.7        40.1
MALE                                52.7        50.3      49.5            47.2        50.8        55.8
FEMALE                              11.2        12.8      13.6            13.2        12.6       24.7
ECONOMIC DENERDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.5       1.4             1.7         1.4         1.6
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.7 /h     34.9 |      ..            28.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  54.4 /h     62.2 Rh     ..            57.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5 /h      3.2  b     ..             3.2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 /h     I.0 /h      *-            10.7        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATE9 ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           251.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     150.0           200.6      157.9
ESTIMATEDL RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (U1.$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                               ..          ..     465.0           403.1      448.8
RURAL                               ..          ..    332.0            258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      34.0            24.8       23.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      55.0            65.2        54.5
Not avaLilable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
vslues of the indicator and thq m ost populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estmte, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  U7pper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /a High Incom
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1972;  /g  Beginning 1973. duration of general education reduced
from 7 to 4 years, therefore data may not be comparable to those of earlier years;  /h  Data refer
to economically active populatiom.
September, 1978



- 30 -                                                                 ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Page 3
Nout: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geooetric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kh)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban  and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permonsntly for crops, pastures, market and kitches gardens or to                      hebilitntion centers.    ospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, atc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from  hospitals divided by the number of bels.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOOSING
Average aizm  of household (persons Per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group o f individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of twa end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                             the household for statietical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per rom. in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structores and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urbas, sod rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 sod                      cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total. ad female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary inatruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrisl, or other programs which operate independently
Family plannino - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national fanily                   Pupil-teacher ratio - orimary. snd secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Perceotage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUNPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars {par thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                       seting less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thouand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in ceuntries md in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent yars  may not be comparable since  nset countries
quirements were astimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thouand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genert
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in couo-
cent for waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper ciresition (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendaqce per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grmas of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
sod in age group 1-4 years., to children in this ago group                                rinse in various countries are not comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Female lebor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Ariculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life esportanun    at birth  (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 temale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are TLO's adjusted participation rttes reflecting age-sem
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structure of the population. and long time trend.
oafs cater supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated buc                   Eicomoic dependency ratio - Ratio of populatior under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 yers.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or stesdpost located not sore                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be coasidered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 pereent, poorest 20 percent, and pooreat 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acrness to eacrtte disposal (percent of Population) - total, urban, andv   income  eve  (00$ per capita     urban and rur
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) nerved by excrete                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minima
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.   Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential son-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borns systems                     Fstimated relative poverty income level (00$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative peverty iseome level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimated population below poverty incoe level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban  and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant norses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
Page- 4
ECONOMIC DCXXEI) MEAT AATA SACEE
A CT UAL1                                                   PROJ EC T ED                                         A--loER-I,rI,-IIR- _e
1974-        1975          1976        -19)7          19 78        19719         1980         198 5         1990       197 5- 77   1 978 -80   1981-895   1 986-AM0    1974      19)77     1980       198)5     1990
A.        NA1TIANAL ACCOUNTSI
(Millie-  of 1U0$ at 1975 price)                                                                                                                                                                                                          AsPrcn        CAY
1.  GAP (Market Pr--e)                                    117,484       124.166      135,302       161,196      150,581       118,738      189,174       255,207      390.306         6..         4.1         8.5       8.9        59 A       97.9    108 3    IAO.3    9M.A
2.  Gains fre  TT                                              258         -           1,014         3,084           444           68          -463          624        2.781           ...0.2                                                 2 I      -0.3      -o 3       A 5
3.  Cress AnassElr borne                   ~~~~~~~~     ~~~~117,7c2  124,168  13 6,316  144,6A0   151,025      150,804       168,740      254,578       393,087         7.1        5.3         8.4        9.1       100.0     100.8    IAO.0    AOl 0   180.
4.  ImperEl                               ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~       ~~15,408  14.333  14,736  14,145  16,984  14:481  14,258  21,582    25.783        -2.         0.~ 3       A 6       10.6        13.1        9,8       9.8.                 
5.  Fpeor- 'Anne8,863                                      8,9427        ,57   9       ,7712      10,8)1        11,891       13,023        19,295       28921          39        10.2          8.2         5          7 4       6.7       7.7        7.8      04
6 Cpes- TT Ad1ontd                                    893          947          152          1,98           1115        11.959        12,587       19,919        31,702         5.7       -8.)         96        9.7          7. 1      8 8        7.4       7.8      8 I
7.  Re--rc  Gap 14-6)                                       6.483         4,908        3 ,715        1,369         3,A69        2,522        1.71           ,8           4,81           -.1                                          5.)        .        10        s         1.8
8.  Cen-upEen                                              32,195        97593       106,515       111,591      121,28         26,1        131,199       103,949.     20886           86          5.5         81          .9        74 1      72.1      77 8       706.2    055I
9.  Eec. rat                                               32,.02        31,479       3356          34,438       33,36         36,07        39,212        62.29        10,3          -24.4                    97       10.9         31.4      273.81    23.2       245      25
10   National Innings                                       29,220        24,421       2 7, 170      29,797       2618176       30:,253       33,860       50,152        9,IAOO        A.)         4.5        10.7      10.1         24.8      20.5       20.1      22 1    2351
011.  Ao---n  GacIego                                       30,547        26 ,57 3     29,8001       330'8'9       29,67        33,78 5      37,541        60,629        96,222        2.7         4.3        I1.        9 7          59       229       22.2       23.8    245
A.  MERCHANDISE TRADE
1.  IepArt
Coa-e  Goods                                         1,5            ,99         139          12111         1,768         178           ,90         364           6,9          88          62           7.2       7.7        11.5       10.1      12.1      11.6   1I0 I
Petrolcon and Ierioosioon               2,~~~ ~ ~~~~~840  2875     3612         3814          4,093         5,1I583                   11,596       2276           8..10.                  6.21      9.1        2 2 5      31 7      37.9      36.5    34.5
OtherItredae  od                                      5,223        4,202         3.753        3,897         4,758         4,0 10       4,043         6,964       1'6,906       -3.1       -4.2          4.       13.7        41.3       32.4      25.7      21.9     25 6
Copi-ol Goods                                         3,119        3,934         3,619        3,101         3,522         3,685        3,905         9,577       19,685       -11.5        1.2         12.4      10.0        24 7       25 8      24.9      30.2    29.9
T-E1 (Ff1)                                     12,641        12,218       12,383        12,023       13,639        14,554       15,701        31,761       65,947        -5.7        0.9          7 .7     10.8        180.0    110.0    lAO.0    100.8   108.1
2.  En..rtat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                As P-roeo   o ITsna   Eapert
Co ffee                                                 980          934         2,398        2,625         2,286         2,61571      2,2196        3 45,56                   -9.3       16.8          3.1       3.0         12.3      21.7      13.3       9.5       7 .7
Oher AgietalGeode                                    3,415       3,480          2,029        3,883         3,A819       4,680         5,213       11.00         20,336         8.. 7        7          5.~9      6:.1       43.n       32.0      30.2      30.2    28.1
Mierl                                                641       1,022         1,082           963         1 895          99          105          2210          3,885       -16          2.3         47         4881                  8.                    .        .
Seni-P-o....od Cosde                                    634          645           789           988        1,384         1,408        1,581,        3,234        6,101        26.0        6.2          7.7       7.7         81         8.1       9.1       8.9       8.      a,
Moofcord   ods                                 2,086       2 ,3 79        2,449        3.383        4,614         5,395         6,6         15,914        35,793        13.4       18.2        12.0       12.0        26..2      27.9      39'.0     43.8    49.4       -
OtherC Gods                                             195          209           381           278          181           327          356           939           778      -1 8.7       2.0          2.5       7.86         2.4       2.3       2.1        1 S      1.1
Teta1 (FOB)                                     7,951        8,670        i8,128        12,220       12,651        14,967       17,'288       36,350       72,453         3.9        10.5         7.8       8.5        100.1    100.0    100.0    180.0   180.0
C.       SECTOR OUTPUT
(har  nf NIP af Forte  Con  oP 1970 prio-n
1.  Agr=it-lrr                                                10,8        10.5          10.0          10.5          101          1.            103           1.            75           .         5.5          5.2       5.2
2.  Ind. ty                                                   39.2        39.4          40.1          39.7         '39.9          39.3         39.2         3'9.5         39.8         6.9        578.7                  9.0
3,  Oct-i-                                                     1.         50.1          49.           498           500           50.          50.5           17          527          6.4        64           9.0       9.3
D.        PECE   (97=18
A.  Export  Pi-t loden                                          59         100           112           133           127           133          140           202          267        10.4        1.7          7 .6      5.7
2.  Inporf  ilo  ledr                                           98         100           103           112           120           131          144           194          242         4.6        6.           6.1       4.5
3.  Ter- el TroOpIndes                                         101         110           109           119           106           102           97           104          110
4.  C..er_l PrIce Loden                                         78         lAO           141           202           280..
5.  Asl...g. E-change late                                      84         100           131           174           222                         -..
E.        GLIOXCTA  1NDI2CCOTII                                  1975-77      17-8          1981-85       1986-90                                                  EG.        EIE! IET17017
1I IO                                                        4 231       3.124          2,925        2.979                                                          I.10c         ..rr  (ill-el              29.4             34.1
2.  Inpsrl 11a56006 50                      -1.~~~~~~~~~~~0904  0,844   1,110         1.0862.Ioolnes
3.  Aec-ge Noli-ea  Iolg0ae8213                                          0.193          0.212        1.2287.n  01.0,                                                                                                           5,0
4.  MagslNrea   oeg   ae0.308                                            8,413          0.287        0.289                                                          3 Eploee   (nillees
5.  Ieperts/DP                                              8.188        0091          0.085         0.089                                                                ITsars                            27.2              32.6
6.  lTM---tIIfDP                                             0.248       0.228          0,239        0,252                                                       3.1.  Agt~t-osr                            43.8              39.5
7.  ARs...re Cap/GDP                                        0.025        0.817          0,818        0,119                                                       3,2.  leelrA1.0                                              19.8
3.3,  GS-i-e                               38.2             40.7
p.        PIOMLIC FINANCE a)                                       974         1925          19276         197 7
C.An  ecn fGP)
1. ~ere   ssnc10.2                                                         9.5          10.7          10.3
li.   Tan ......e                                               10.3          9.4         10,2            9.7
2   C-ree  fEP-edi- tot                                        9.5         8,7           9.6            9.1
3.  Csrrn,s  S-olnn                                            1.2         0.8           1.1            1.2
4.  CopiesI Enpendlet-                                         0.6         0,8           1.0            1,2
4.1.  Es---eos  PIned Capital F-es1-o                            0.4          0.4          0.4            0.4
oIFdea   .s.r...ce..                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Apr-l 51 9'9
1-1.di.g -pft.1  --f-l.                                                                           I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  cn  tha  hal  the ..a.i..  W,E I "



ANNEX 1
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million us$)
A C T U A L                            PRELIMINARY              P R O J E C T E D
1974          1975           1976           1977             1978          1979           1980           1985           1990
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.     Exports (incl. NFS)                          8,471         9,376         10,797         12,808          13,376         15,704         18,124         38,648         76.818
2.      Imports (incl. NFS)                       14,678         14,308         14,475         14,020           15,767        16,730         18,064         36,635         75.958
3.     Resource Balance                            -6,207        -4,932         -3,67B         -1,212           -2,391        -1,026              60         2,013            860
4.     Net Factor Service Income                    - 916        -1,770         -2,339         -2,825           -3,420        -3,838         -4,297         -7,454        -11.589
a. Net Interest Payments                       - 652         -1,498        -1,809         -2,104           -2,500         -2,880         -3,234         -5,288        -8,145
b. Direct Investment Income                    - 248          - 235          - 38D         - 455            - 575          - 542          - 590         -1,030        -1,775
c. Other Factor Service Income                 -  16          -  37          - 15D         - 266            - 345          - 416          - 473         -1.136        -1,669
5.     Current Transfers (Net)                          1              2             4             -                76              7              7              7              7
6.      Balance on Current Account                -7,122         -6,700         -6,013         -4,037          -5,735         -4,857          -4,230        -5,434        -10,723
7.     Net Private Direct Investment                  887           892            962            810              800            770            760            750           750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Leans
a. Traditional Sourcesa/
(i) Disbursements                        1,956          1,612          2,054         2,553            2,888          3,722          4,204          7,035         11,230
(ii) Amortization                         - 739          - 992         -1,350        -1,701           -1,842         -1,652         -1,960         -4.421         -7,048
(iii) Net Disbursements                    1.217            620            703            852            1,046         2,070          2,244          2,614          4.182
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                        5,103          4,524          5,978         5,940           11,364          3,168          7,247          9,088         17,765
(ii) Amortization                        -1,181         -1,194         -1,669        -2,426           -3,526         -4,150         -5,734         -5,920         -9,719
(iii) Net Disbursements                    3,922          3,330          4,309          3,514           7,838          - 982          1,513          3.168          8.046
9.     Use of IMF Resources                           -                7           -              -                -              -              -              -             -                      W
10.      Short-term Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138                789          2,294          - 440            - 122            -              -              -              -
11.      Reserves (-9 increas562
a. Reserve Accumulation-                         958          1,062         -2,255         - 699           -3,825          2,999            287         -1,098         -2,255
b  Dollar Valuation Adjustment                    185           176          - 252         -  16            - 660            -              -              -              -
c. Changes in Reserve LevelE/                  1,143          1,238         -2,507         - 715           -4,485          2,999          - 287         -1,098         -2,255
12.      Foreign Exchange Reserves                   5,272         4,034          6,541          7,256           11,741          8,742          9,029        10.127         12.382
(End of Period)
B.  Crant and Loan Conmmitments
1.     Total M&LT Loans                             7,179         7,005          9,482          9,738           15,349
1.1    IBRD                                           242           426            498            425              705
1.2    IDB                                            203            167            186           270              300
1.3    Governments                                    518            512         1,251          1,184            1,311
1.4    Suppliers                                    1,088         1,376          1,300          1,100            1,186
1.5    Bonds                                           25            -              269           819            1,000
1.6    Financial Credits                            5,103         4,524          5,978          5,940           10,847
C.  Memorandum Items
1.     Grant Element of Total Commitments               2.5            2.5            2.5           2.8
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                       9.5            9.5            9.4            9.3              8.2
3.     Average Mat-riry (Yearn)                         9.0            9.9            8.3           8.9              10.6
a/ Includes -ultilateral agencies, hilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
h/  IFS line 79d.
c/  TFS T.ine Id.                                                                                                                                                                    Arri1 5  19'9
...  not available



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                       Prelitinary
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                         17,166       21,171        25,985       32,037       40,968
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                     11,211        14,561       18,194       21,528       28,849
(2) Traditional Lendersa/                                   5,955        6,610        7,791       10,509       12,119
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                          8,533       11,461       14,852       19,309       24,704
(2) Private                                                 8,633        9,710       11,133       12,729       16,264
2, Net Debt Service                                                 2,572         3,683        4,825        6,231        7,851
a.  Total Interest                                              1,370        1,863        2,091         2,462        3,200
b.  Net Interest                                                  652         1,498        1,810        2,103        2,500
3. Public Debt Service                                              1,287         1,550        1,982        2,505        3,923
B.  Debt Burden
1. Net Debt Service Ratiob/                                           30.4         39.3         44.7         48.6         58.7
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratioc!                                    33.3         41.8         48.2         52.2         53.0
3. Public Debt Service Ratio                                          15.2         16.5         18.4         19.6         29.3
4. Liquidity Ratio4/                                                  23.0         33.3         43.0         39.2
5. Net Debt Service/GDP                                                2.3          3.0          3.3          3.8          4.1
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                            1.2          1.3          1.4          1.5          2.0
7.  Total DOD/GDP                                                    15.6          17.1         17.8         19.3         21.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOte/                                10.9          10.9          9.9          9.5         10.0
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DODe_                                      20.5         21.5         22.8         24.0         24.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                          48.1          42.9         55.5         60.6         90.4
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)f/                               25.7          14.6         20.2         13.6         36.1
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                 53.4          34.0         36.4         22.4         39.9
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                       3.5          4.1          2.2          3.5          2.6
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                 4.9          5.2          5.0          4.8          4.6
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.0          2.5          2.4          2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                              Outstanding December 31, 1978 (Prel.)
Amount                                 Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                 1,812                                   4.4
2.  Other Multilateral                                                     995                                   2.5
3.  Governments,                                                         3,328                                   8.1
4.  Suppliers                                                            3,570                                    8.7
5.  Bonds                                                                2,208                                   5.4
6.  Financial Credits                                                   28,849                                  70.4
7.  Other                                                                  206                                   0.5
8. Total M&LT Debt                                                      40,968                                 100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                              24,704 (est.)                           60.3
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1979-85/Total DOD end of 1978                                             209.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursiements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculatetd on the basis Df net rather than gross interest payments in
order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
April 5, 1979



_ 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                  1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0           10.9
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica               Industry             64.5             .1
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas         Power                60.0             .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement       6.7            1.5
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0          35.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        54.0           31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0           32.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         36.0            3.2
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5           17.4
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0           28.1
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0           35.6
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0           76.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0           54.6
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0           16.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0           36.4
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0             10.9
1206   1976  Brazil                              Development Bank   85.0             68.0
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0           53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0           36.2
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           50.0           12.6
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power                52.0           33.5
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                 50.0          39.8
1302    19715 Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0          17.9
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0          29.2
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                 82.0          48.7
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0            27.2
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0          59.2
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer            82.0          49.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.9
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0            16.4
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0         110.0
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0            23.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                130.0         130.0
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads                114.0         114.0
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals        85.0          82.5
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0          84.5
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0           100.0
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            36.3
1654 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               93.0
1656 |1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              100.0
1660 /1 1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          98.0
Total                                             4,178.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                544.5
Total now outstanding                             3,633.7
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            37.7            8.1
Total now held by Bank                            3,625.6
Total undisbursed                                                1,967.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  On May 31, 1979, the Executive
Directors approved a loan of US$26 million for a rural development project
in Sergipe.



ANNEX II
- 36-                                     Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of April 30. 1979
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                      Electrical Equipment         2.00      -        2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                            Pulp and Paper               1.20      -        1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts            0.45       -        0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                      Motor Vehicles              2.45       -       2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                      1.20       -        1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                     Pulp                        4.00       -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                         Steel                       8.00      1.93      9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                          Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41      7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                          Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                    Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88      8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                     Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88      8.38
1971               Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                          Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44      6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                   Pulp                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                      Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                      76.96      7.50    84.46
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                    Capital Market
Development                5.00      -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                      Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                   Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                   Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment            6.00        -      6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                            Textiles                   31.00       -       31.00
1975               Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                            Carbon Black                6.18      1.09      7.26
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                      Petrochemicals             10.00       -       10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.               Textiles                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976               Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste               Textiles                    6.00       -        6.00
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -       20.00
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                 Mining                     15.00       -       15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0      10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S.A.                     Motor Vehicles             60.00      5.00    65.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                               415.53    44.69   460.22
Less Cancellations. Terminations. Repayments and Sales                                312.04      8.52   320.55
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                     103.49    36.17   139.67
Total Undisbursed                                                                      74.38    11.94    86.32



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
])ate: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980. Accordingly, a postponement of the closing date will be
required. In spites of tariff increases, the financial condition of
the Port of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation
for civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was substantially
completed in September 1978 at a total project cost of US$970.4
million. This is twenty-six months behind the appraisal schedule
and at a cost of US$593.6 million (157%) higher than anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Production reached 2.05 million tons
of raw steel equ:Lvalent in 1978 compared with 1.54 million tons
in 1977 and 2.34 million tons forecast for 1979 when the plant
is operating at full capacity. In spite of the capital cost
increase the project remains competitive because of the corre-
sponding increase in international prices in steel. Emphasis
will now be placed by management on reducing production costs
and financial and administrative expenses to improve internal
cash generation.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does
not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. The first four units of the
power plant were commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The road component of the project now completed was reduced from the
original 306 km to 238 km. The settlement agency, COLONE, has pre-
pared revised farm development plans whose credit component, to be
financed by public financial institutions, will be significantly
higher than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release
of public funds for farm credit, road construction and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project staff de-
layed the start of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered
by the lack of assured financing, and this problem is compounded by
cost overruns presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 65% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the new Government, which took office in March 1979,
on the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of March 31, 1979, 91% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed. It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979. In early 1979, the Government increased COPASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are wor'king well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and has started to make payments to the railway to meet
deficits on uneconomic services. These actions should significantly
improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



. 40 _
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project is being revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III is proceeding at a reduced pace in part because of un-
certainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds to fully
finance the project. COSIPA has released the preliminary report of
the project based on the revision mentioned above. The preliminary
estimate of the revised project cost is US$1.7 billion which is
44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project remains
economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. The waters
from the recent floods have substantially receded, and construction
is expected to resume at a normal rate later in 1979.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. The
Government recently deregulated most freight tariffs and is starting
to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport Master Plan
indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will be required.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. P'hase I of this project ended satisfactorily in the
areas of extension, marketing, applied research, and health. Two
potential problemls could affect Phase II implementation: (i) the
possibility of a severe drought, and (ii) the relocation of the
POLONORDESTE program between government agencies and between cities,
and the possibility of a reorganization. The recent change in
state administration is having a favorable impact on the project.
The new administration is already taking drought-relief measures,
and has indicated its strong support of the project, and particularly
of Phase II implementation.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of Miarch 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) differences between the relending terms of the agencies concerned
and those required under the Loan Agreement; (ii) a leveling off of
the industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates
and a general slow-down in investments. The Closing Date for
this loan has been postponed to September 30, 1979 to allow dis-
bursements to continue while the Government and the Bank hold
discussions concerning the project.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; ERffective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Six sub-loans totalling US$106 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$25 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be
committed by September/October 1979.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA, which took place after federal and state
elections. Imposed hiring constraints significantly affected
the civil works, consultant services, and training components of
this project. The outlook for the remainder of 1979 should be more
favorable with a resumption of normal hiring procedures since the
new government has now taken office.



- 42_
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.  Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily. After a slow start, the agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
understaffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components have not started because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the staffing
problems are being studied by the new government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state. It is envisaged that the closing date will have
to be extended by one year to September 30, 1981, to allow for
completion of disbursements.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1317      Sec3nd Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
])ecember 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
gathering momentum. Mainly as a result of administrative difficul-
ties, participation in this project by landless producers is signif-
icantly lower than originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by
the state government and the participating banks have improved this
situation recently. The health component has advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Comnmercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980.  Ihe project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date:  April 5, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.



_ 44 _
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well. Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
component of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.



_ 45 _
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed. The
Bank has approved the subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is
examining the proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Ef'ective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the project has advanced satisfactorily after
initial local funding delays, and substantial progress is being made
in the majority of the components. Discussions with the new government
concerning the difficulties encountered in implementing the land
purchase credit component of the project are now underway.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
PERNAMBUCO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:       Approximately 10 months
(from January 1978-October 1978)
(b)  Project prepared by:      POLONORDESTE Technical Unit (TU) of the
State Secretariat of Planning of the
State of Pernambuco
(c) First presentation
to the Bank:              November 1977
(d) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:        October 1978
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:             April 1979
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:        October 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(1) The Government would maintain existing agreements with participat-
ing banks, BB and BNB, to ensure their collaboration (para. 46).
(2) The State Government would take all measures necessary to ensure
adequate processing capacity for the project's incremental milk
production (para. 53).
(3) POLONORDESTE would submit land tenure studies to the Bank before
June 30, 1980 (para. 61).
(4) The State Government would enter into written agreements satisfactory
to the Bank with each executing agency to specify its project respon-
sibilities (Condition of Disbursement for each component except
the Credit and Management Components, para. 64).
(5) The Government would make adequate funds available promptly for the
effective and timely execution of the project and for the adequate
operation and maintenance of the facilities and services developed
under the project (para. 66).



I   CFARA   j <  PARAiS5A 36'3D' o 36'00 05-30' IBRD 14004
S~~~~~AIRA  PARAiSA                                                                                                                                      a-S,                                      MARCH 1979~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAC  13
PA RAIBOLNRDST   URL  EELPMN  POJC
PIAUI I;'PARAiBA_et>-e
Olh.,                                                                     d. IbRIPPI(mi,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSR
~~~~~~~~~~  .0    U   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I0U  TEI
, B   R NA  Z  I$ L      , R JoDM 
I A \UDD / S CRIU,I X 0 M  "  -  ''~ ' ";U                                                           TOI                                                                          33I ' 
_    [    '    ga    2   $   _:   2   :  .<  -    gZ05!   F   .   Ig!   I  'w,  ',  SANTO ANTAO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~ANANA
;                            / ~~~~~~~X.- +                  ,    /,>i=9- ,t                                                                                        %N  
_-    j'\    '\<--->-+d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¢¢ttA t itt3w. k 1 v// // '. 1S00 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J     Z 
1 -. '.... 0. 0 , ( 7 ............................. )  4J }t^9Z7T3 iZ 
Elt<;   ~~~~~~~~s~~~  >      w    0          i _   '  t 5                    ,          /                     5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State of Pernamnbuco
nore.t /    :             11eV'wo%t's                               st  /   r                                          ~~~POLONORDESTE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
202m  *,   .  Jf   . fie2!  8  "genf  i  XTI = 14\, / / AGRESTE SETENTRIONAL PROJECT AREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRETESETNTIONL POJCT  RE
~~2 .   i E   ,h   |   |      \        3nDiritsf 5Rnl<    C13RRMHX    1/                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRCJECT BOUNDARY
\   1           0                  <                     /                                          *   MA N PRODUCE MARKEIS                                           ^ A RCULTURAL  OOPERAT S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAN  ROUC  ARET  AA~IPULUFL   OPRAVE
0  4 1 F 3  >  /   G       t             +,S           Y                                            c7   CEN RA SEED SUP7LY  EN ERS                                     s CENTRAL STORAGE FACILITIES                         5'30'-~+AN RRAIHEATH OST  0   ENTRL SORAE FCILTIE
5  GX  LT <S J ST I // + LOCAL HEAITH CEN ERS 10 BE CONSTRUCTED AWID EQUIPPED DAMS OVERCALHEATH CNTES T) B CONTRUTEDANDEQUIPEDAl,DAMOOV,DDD M'00 
S/  +  / / O~~~~~~~;RAd4G"3jl$, \ /S + PLANNED ADVANCE BANK-POSTS DAMS OVER SO,OOO M3NND AVAHF BNK-O5T                                                                DAS OER 0,00 M
\   ) I   l q;W"yQk  <_          J                                                         *    RURAL WATER SUPPLY SISTEM TO BE CONSIRUCTED                      FEDEFAL ROADSURA WAER UPPY $STE TOBE ONSRUCED  EDEAL MD
(    \41   V           ,F,,,           /      7LOI0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.                              T}EX1 SING LOCAL HEALTH CENTERS WITH CONSTRUCTION                     STATE ROADS
JS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BE U*  ADN                                                                                               OCLBN SEDC  MUNICIPAL ROADS
0   \  n      /                                        1 j                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRIUNDrLTTUERAL COEOcPERATIVES ELIG BLE FOR ASSSTANCE  MUC A3NDRE
\)§DOEIRAS   \)   }{                                I                                O     ~      ~     ~ ~~          ~    ~ ~      ~    ~ ~       ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10  20  30  4D  SO
Ih  bNDddf  R.WR .............. k SS_.U]~~, ......... dUenMed ..................... > /oo S ]0 K,lO_.+,. 20 25 5 30
./   E   &dWS   0!   *e  oMVt  h  Wh  M  ff  z  af >CA@d ihw 1s_d S M MMd Md FE. ....................................... 20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ s / @ A, Gulonhunx M I IM, 



