Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13259
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2546-ME)
JUNE 30, 1994
Country Operations I and Environmental Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of7
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit (until 12/31/92) = Mexican Pesos (Mex$) = 100 cents
Currency Unit (beg. 1/1/93) = Mex. New Pesos (NP$) = 1,000 Old Pesos
Average Exchange Rates
1984                US$1 =                  167.8
1985                US$1 =                  257.0
1986                US$1 =                  611.8
1987                US$1 =                1,378.2
1988                US$1 =                2,273.1
1989                US$1 =                2,261.7
1990                US$1 =                2,821.0
1991                US$1 =                3,020.5
1992                US$1 =                3,094.7
1993 (October)      US$1 =               NP$ 3.1
Abbreviations and Acronyms Us
ACF                 Average Cost of Funds to commercial banking system
CFM                 Comision de Fomento Minero (Mining Development
Commission)
CRM                 Consejo de Recursos Minerales (Mineral Resources Council)
FFM                 Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero (Mining Development Trust
Fund)
FNM                 Fideicomiso de Minerales No-metalicos Mexicanos (Mexican
Non-metallic Minerals Trust Fund)
GIRA                General Interest Rate Agreement between Mexico and the
Bank
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
MSRP                Mining Sector Restructuring Project, Loan 3359-ME
NAFIN               Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (National Industrial
Development Bank)
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PECAM               Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequefla
y Mediana Minera (Special Complementary Program of
Assistance to Small and Medium Mining)
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SEMIP               Secretarfa de Energfa, Minas e Industria Paraestatal
(Ministry of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industry)
SMM                 Small and Medium Scale Mining



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Mexico - Second Small and Medium Scale
Minine Development Project (Loan 2546-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Second Small and Medium Scale Mining
Development Project (Loan 2546-ME). Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project consisted of three components: (i) a line of credit for investment in subprojects involving
mineral exploration, development, exploitation, beneficiation and concentration facilities as well as technical
assistance related to such investments; (ii) a line of credit allocated to three public entities for the
acquisition of exploration and mining machinery and equipments for leasing purposes, construction and
expansion of regional beneficiation plants and expansion of regional laboratory facilities; and (iii)
institutional development through consultancy services.
An ex-post study on 54 subprojects (accounting for 56% of the total investment) in both the metallic
and non-metallic mineral sectors indicated that FNM (Trust Fund for Mexican Non-Metallic Minerals) was
successful in enlisting the cooperation of commercial banks and disbursing the bulk of the financing with
positive results. In contrast, investments for metallic minerals mining by CFM (Mining Development
Commission) and for exploration by CRM (Mineral Resources Council), performed unsatisfactorily.
Organizational weaknesses and the Government's decision to privatize certain facilities led to the
scaling back of investment in beneficiation plants and the eventual elimination of the leasing program and
the acquisition of exploration equipment. The program of investment in laboratories was also reduced
substantially. The disbursement for this subcomponent reached only around 11% of appraisal estimates.
The project realized little of its institutional development objective because of its flawed design.
Despite the unsatisfactory experience with the complex organizational structure created under the First Small
and Medium Scale Mining Development Project (Loan 1820-ME), this project continued to rely on the same
organization for supervision of lending operations. This project was followed by the Mining Sector
Restructuring Project (Loan 3359-ME) in 1991 which supported the Government program of deregulating
the mining sector and reforming the organizational structure.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality and deals candidly with the implementation experience and the
complexity of the project. Because of the relatively positive results in the non-metallic mineral subprojects,
the project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory. The project's sustainability is rated as uncertain and
its institutional impact as modest. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. ts conenl""
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2546-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .............................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                   ......   I
1.     Project Identity ...............................    I
2.     Background .................................    I
3.     Project Objectives and Description.                               4
4.   Project Design and Organization.                                    5
5.  Project Implementation.                                              7
6.  Project Results .11
7.  Project Sustainability .12
8.  Bank Performance .13
9.  Borrower Performance .14
10.  Project Relationship .14
II. Consulting Services .15
12.  Project Documentation and Data .15
13. Lessons Learned .16
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... ...  17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .......................  19
1.     Related Bank Loans ............................   19
2.     Project Timetable  .............................  20
3.     Loan Disbursements  ...........................  21
4.     Financing at Appraisal ..........................  22
5.     Project Costs by Component ......................  23
6.  Project Financing by Source .23
7.   Project Finance by Source and Use .24
8.     Use of PECAM Funds by Implementing Agency .25
9. Project Results .26
10. Status of Covenants .32
11. Use of Bank Resources .34
12.    Table I: PECAM Organization Chart .35
13.    Table TI: PECAM Flow of Funds Diagram .36
ANNEX I: Original Spanish Version of Part II .....................  37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2546-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Small and
Medium Scale Mining Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2546-ME in
the amount of US$ 105.0 million equivalent was approved by the Bank on May 21,
1985. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, one year behind schedule. The
last disbursement application was received on April 30, 1993 and was disbursed on
May 12, 1993. Forty-four thousand dollars were canceled.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Country Operations
Division I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and 111). The Borrower agreed to prepare Part If
simultaneously with preparation of Parts I and IIl by the Bank. This was
reconfirmed by NAFIN in May 1992. Part 11 has been prepared by the Government
and will be officially transmitted to the Bank following submission of the PCR to the
Government.
Preparation of this PCR was started in December 1992, and it is based, inter
a/ia, on data obtained during a one week mission in December 1992, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan, Project, and Guarantee Agreements, Project Supervision
Reports. correspondence hetween the Bank and the Borrower. interviews of Bank
staff involved in the implementation of the project, the Project Completion Report
for the First Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project (Loan 1820-
ME), and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2546-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the Second Small and Medium Scale Mining Development
Project (PECAM II) were to expand the Bank's support of Mexico's Program of
Assistance to Small and Medium Mining (PECAM I), initiated in 1980 under Loan
1820-ME, by providing credit and technical assistance to enterprises for exploration
and mine development, construction and modernization of support facilities, and
institutional strengthening for the participating agencies. In addition, the project was
designed to encourage commercial bank lending to Small and Medium Scale Mining
(SMM), with FNM (Mexican Non-Metallic Minerals Trust Fund) and CFM (Mining
Development Commission) acting as second tier credit institutions. The project was
to be managed by the Coordinating Committee of PECAM, supported by a
Technical Secretariat, which was to supervise project management, credit review and
loan approval along with the provision of technical assistance (para. 3.1).
2.    Loan 2546-ME had three components: credit to SMMs, credit to the
Implementing Agencies, and institutional strengthening for the Implementing
Agencies. The credit to SMMs was destined for three uses: (i) financing of fixed
assets and permanent wvrking capital via CFM and FNM, (ii) financing of
exploration activities via CRM, and (iii) financing of technical assistance to SMM
investment projects. The credit to Implementing Agencies was intended for (a) the
purchase of equipment to be leased to SMMs, (b) construction and expansion of
regional beneficiation plants, (c) purchase and utilization of exploration machinery to
assist SMMs and (d) the construction, expansion, and modernization of laboratories.
The final component, institutional strengthening and technical assistance for the
Implementing Agencies, included funds for studies on issues affecting the
development of SMMs, financing of computer systems, and consulting costs for
implementation of institutional action plans (para. 3.2).
3.    The project was appraised and approved during a time of prolonged
macroeconomic instability and restricted access to credit in Mexico (paras. 2.1 to
2.11) and was expected to provide financial assistance to 200 small and medium
mines, with an annual incremental mining output of approximately US$ 110 million.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The loan was approved by the Board on May 21, 1985 and signed on
October 5 of the same year. Effectiveness was declared on April 2, 1986 following
a significant delay. The original closing date of December 31, 1991 was extended
for one year to December 31, 1992 reflecting delays in project implementation due
in part to an inadequately funded Special Account which created a relatively slow
start in implementation. In 1988, the Bank approved an increase in the size of the



iii
Special Account from US$8 million to US$12 million to enable higher levels of
project activity (para 5.1).
5.     Following the resolution of start-up problems, the project proceeded to help
finance loans on schedule and to meet the primary objective stated in the Appraisal
Report. An ex-post evaluation of 54 subprojects comprising 56% of PECAM II
investment was conducted by the Government in 1993. The study findings indicate
that the 490 enterprises financed under the project created an estimated 4,900 new
jobs. Incremental production was estimated at nearly 1 million tons per annum,
representing over 5% growth in sectoral output. These initial estimates of
subproject performance indicate a positive economic impact which met targets set
during appraisal (para. 5.3).
6.     One of the Implementing Agencies was responsible for this success. The
FNM, or the Mexican Non-metallic Minerals Trust Fund, acted as a second-tier
institution channeling funds via commercial banks and achieved a high degree of
success in helping to expand the growth of non-metallic mineral mining and
processing (para. 5.5).
7.     Two other components of the loan, direct credits for metallic mining
development (via CFM) and credits for exploration (via CRM), performed highly
unsatisfactorily. Among the factors which caused these negative results were (i)
technical and conceptual errors in mineralogical project evaluation, (ii) over-levering
of subproject financing, (iii) poor matching of institutional capability with project
objectives and instruments, (iv) over-reliance on technical assistance to remedy
institutional weakness, (v) overly complex project institutional design, and (vi) the
adverse international price conditions for key metallic minerals (paras. 5.6 to 5.8).
8.    The Coordinating Committee of PECAM along with its Technical Secretariat
charged with coordinating and monitoring the Implementing Agencies never
functioned as planned and was dissolved mid-way through the project (para. 5.15).
In addition, CFM management was replaced and its activities integrated into FNM to
create a new institution serving both metallic and non-metallic mining, the
Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero (FFM). These changes opened the doors for
resolution of outstanding compliance issues and broader sectoral dialogue (para.
6.3).
Sustainability
9.     The overall economic impact of the project to date has been positive,
meeting appraisal estimates, with substantial production increases and job creation
accruing to the non-metallic mining sector (para. 5.3). The outlook for sustained
project impact is good due to the major reforms undertaken in sector policy and
institutional framework since 1989 with the support of the Mining Sector
Restructuring Project approved in 1991 (para. 2.10). Financial support to the sector
has been consolidated in the FFM, a technically and financially sound institution
managing a well-performing portfolio of second-tier credits. In the long-term,
FFM's viability will depend on its ability to mobilize financial resources and
increase the interest of commercial banks in lending to SMMs. The ex-post study
indicates that returns on the non-metallic subprojects have been good, in line with
appraisal estimates (Part 111.9). Furthermore, the low default ratio for FNM sub-
borrowers provides an additional indicator of success. Regarding the CFM and
CRM credit components, the high incidence of loan default and technical error in



iv
estimating the potential value of mineral deposits indicates that sustainability of these
enterprises is very low.
10.   Of the original Implementing Agencies, the PECAM Coordinating
Committee and Technical Secretariat were dissolved; FNM was made responsible
for all mining credit operations and renamed FFM; CFM was dissolved, with credit
activities transferred to FFM; and CRM operations have been redirected and
focussed. Overall, the institutional arrangements for the sector have been
streamlined while tax policy, granting of concessions, and foreign investment
regulations have been rationalized (para. 2.10).
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   The main lessons learned from experience under PECAM II were:
(i)    Well-designed mining sector credit projects which are channeled through the
commercial banking system using market-based interest rates may efficiently create
employment and foreign exchange and have other positive impacts, but only when
the highly specific technical and financial requirements of the sector are properly
addressed. Issues regarding subproject evaluation and financing should be resolved
regardless of the prevailing policy framework for the sector. In the case of this
project, the time lag between the extension of productive term credit to the sector
and the appearance of economic benefits from sound investments financed proved to
be relatively short.
(ii)    The project could have largely avoided the high losses from CFM and CRM
subprojects if the debt financing of mining exploration and high risk first-tier lending
for SMM development had been excluded, as had been suggested by the experience
of the PECAM I project.
(iii) The Bank willingness to finance mining sector activity prior to
comprehensive reform enabled the Bank to participate as the policy dialogue
emerged. The Bank established credibility by placing senior technical staff and
consultants to work with country counterparts during later phases of project
implementation, and was thus well-positioned to help shape the new sectoral
framework through the Mining Sector Review of 1989.
(iv)   The viability of complex and partly untried institutional arrangements for a
sector project should be carefully assessed in light of the weaknesses of the existing
framework and the Government support for necessary changes. Full use of previous
project experience is critical in assessing the viability of these arrangements and
designing necessary improvements. Operational and technical assistance objectives
should be kept simple and easy to monitor in order to reduce the likelihood of
institutional failure.
(v)    First-tier credit programs should not be operated by Government institutions
due to the poor incentives for cost controls and commercial project risk evaluation.
If the decision is taken to create a financial intermediary under the responsibility of a
sector ministry which lacks technical and financial experience in the field, design
and implementation of such a project should receive particularly careful monitoring.
Second-tier credit programs offer significant advantages because (i) commercial first-
tier lenders are subject to market forces in allocation of credit and therefore have the



V
incentive for due diligence and (ii) the Government is not liable fbr loan losses even
if the commnercial first-tier lender fails to conduct adequate subproject evaluation.



PROJrECr COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENz
PROJIECT
(LOAN No. 2546-ME)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECrIVE
1. Project Identity
Name:                Second Small and Medium Scale Mining
Development Project
Borrower:            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Loan Number:         2546-ME
RVP Unit:            Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Mexico Country Operations Division
Country:             Mexico
Sector:              Mining
2. Background
2. 1    The Second Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project (PECAM
11) was prepared and appraised during a period of prolonged macroeconomic
instability and restricted access to credit in Mexico. The project was designed to
channel resources to an economi. seectr with large potential impact on economic
giowilh and expoit eariiings. Thioughout Mexican history, Lhe mining sector has
played a key role in economic development. At the time of appraisal in 1984-1985,
the mining sector offered a number of attractions: production, fuelled by exports,
had continued to expand despite the overall economic contraction; the sector was the
third largest fbreign exchange earner, after oil and tourism; and exports had
increased by 13% in dQllar terms during 1983 alone. In addition, the industry
sustained a competitive position in international terms due to the country's extensive
mineral endowment, well-trained workforce, and strong base of technical experts.
Despite these advantages, the sector had limited access to capital in a climate of
macroeconomic instability and capital flight.
2.2    The crisis experienced by the Mexican economy during the first half of the
1980s, among the most severe that the country had experienced in its history, wds
the result of decades of inward-oriented development policies combined with
negative external shocks. By 1970, Mexico had exhausted the easier possibilities for
import-substitution industrialization which had generated an average 6.2% rate of
economic growth from the 1940s to the 1960s. During the 1970s, central
administrative controls were increasingly used to allocate the resources available to
the economy. This economic control was extended through increasing regulation
and direct state ownership of productive resources.
2.3    The high rates of growth, although continuing at an average of 6.2%
through the 1970s, masked a growing degree of inefficiency in the economy. Total



2
factor productivity growth, for example, declined from about 4.5% per annum in the
1940s, to 1.0% in the 1950s and 1960s, and to zero growth in the 1970s.
Following the financial and economic crisis of 1976, major oil discoveries led to an
apparent quick economic recovery. Public external debt grew from US$40 billion in
1979 to US$78 billion in 1981. The ensuing prosperity lasted until 1982, when
falling oil prices, rising world interest rates, and massive capital flight led external
creditors to refuse to provide further finance to cover Mexico's deficits or to roll
over its short-term debt.
2.4    The debt crisis of 1982 forced the incoming de la Madrid administration,
which took office at the end of the year, to adopt a stringent stabilization program
and to seek external debt relief. The program succeeded in reducing the fiscal and
current account deficits and enabled a fragile economic recovery to begin in 1984-
85. Consumer price inflation fell from 102% in 1983 to 64% in 1984 and initial
steps toward trade liberalization, privatization, and structural reform were taken.
However, at the time of PECAM 11 appraisal in late-1984, the macroeconomic
situation was far from stabilized. Per capita income continued to decline, while
inflation remained problematic. Consumer prices rose by 58% in 1985. Two major
external shocks, the Mexico City earthquake of 1985 and the collapse of oil prices in
1986, soon disrupted this fragile recovery.
2.5    The macroeconomic situation rapidly deteriorated, as annual inflation
accelerated to 159% in 1987. In December of that year, the Government negotiated
the Pacto, or Economic Solidarity Pact, with representatives of labor and industry,
combining fiscal and monetary austerity with agreed wage and price controls. The
Pacto was renegotiated in December 1988 as the PECE by the new Salinas
administration. The well-balanced Pacto/PECE strategy, which effectively
coordinated Government, business, and labor efforts at stabilization, turned out tO be
successful, as inflation dropped to 52% in 1988 and an average of 20% during
1989-1992 while output and investment recovered quickly.
The Mining Sector
2.6    Mining production in Mexico is widely diversified across 44 mineral
commodities. Four minerals, copper, zinc, silver and lead, constitute nearly 60% of
sectoral output in terms of value and 64% of sectoral export earnings. The mining
industry in Mexico is highly concentrated, with large private and formerly state-
owned firms accounting for two-thirds of output. Small mines (annual production
not exceeding US$3 million equivalent or 300 tons per day) and medium mines
(annual production not exceeding US$15 million equivalent or 1,000-1,500 tons per
day for metallic and non-metallic mines, respectively) provide an estimated 33% of
total output, including the formerly state-owned medium sized enterprises. Despite
significant economies of scale in the industry, SMMs have traditionally been viewed
as competitive due to the presence of small, high-grade deposits not economically
viable for larger concerns. Although roughly 900 SMMs operate 16,000 separate
mining facilities across the country, high bankruptcy rates in recent years may signal
a reduced role for SMMs in the future.
2.7    During 1991, the value of non-petroleum mineral production exceeded
US$2.6 billion, of which 48% was exported. Although the relative importance of
the sectoral contribution to GDP and export earnings has declined as Mexico has
diversified economic activity, opportunities resulting from recent Government
reforms have attracted increasing investment from both domestic and international



3
investors. Overall investment during 1990-1992 was 2.6 times greater than
investment during the previous three years.
2.8   Investors demonstrated strong confidence in the long-term viability of the
sector despite low prevailing international prices for key minerals. While production
volumes have remained steady, the value of output fell by 17.9% in real peso terms
during 1990-1991. Net exports from the sector reached only US$ 666 million
during 1991, 25% less than the average for 1987-1989. As the international prices
for metallic minerals began to recover during 1993, initial reports indicated that
production increased as well.
Institutional and Policy Reforms of the Mexican Mining Sector
2.9    The Government established the Special Complementary Program for SMM
Development (PECAM) in 1980 with Bank support (Loan 1820-ME) to coordinate
and promote technical and financial assistance to the sector. Government policy
objectives for the sector in general and for SMMs in particular included (i) economic
growth and increased exports, (ii) provision of raw materials for use in industry and
construction, (iii) creation of jobs, and (iv) promotion of development in less-
developed regions of the country. PECAM's role was to coordinate the activities of
the three primary government institutions responsible for developing mining sector
policy and for providing investment credits to enterprises: the Mining Development
Commission (CFM), responsible for metallic minerals;' the Mexican Non-Metallic
Minerals Trust Fund (FNM); and the Mineral Resources Council (CRM),
responsible for geologic surveys and exploration.
2.10   During the concluding period of project implementation, the mining sector in
Mexico was dramatically restructured by the Government, supported by the Mining
Sector Restructuring Project, Loan 3359-ME (see para 2.12). The comprehensive
program of reforms initiated in 1990 and completed in 1993 has been broadly
supportive of these initial goals and has focussed on the following areas: (i) changes
in taxation to encourage efficient resource utilization, (ii) liberalization of trade and
foreign investment, (iii) concessioning of government mineral reserves, (iv)
privatization of state-owned mining enterprises and beneficiation plants, (v) removal
of direct and indirect subsidies, (vi) increased effectiveness in technical assistance to
enterprises, and (vii) streamlining of institutional arrangements and procedures.
2.11   The reform process began modestly in 1984 with the National Mining
Program of 1984-1988 which articulated the need for reforms in taxation and trade
policy. This program was only a partial effort at best, recommending policies such
as preferential government procurement to foster import substitution. Nevertheless,
the Government affirmed that the medium-term objective of eliminating subsidies to
the sector would be combined with a modest program of privatization. During
1988-1990, the government accelerated and expanded the privatization process,
nearly eliminating government ownership in the sector. The Mining Law of 1992
and the corresponding Regulations issued in March 1993 completed the series of
reforms which have transformed the operating framework fbr the sector.
I.CFM was also the state holding company for mining enterprises and beneficiation facilities
in the metallic minerals subsector.



4
The Bank Role in the Mining Sector
2.12   The World Bank supported the Government program of assistance to SMM
beginning with the First Small and Medium-Scale Mining Development Project
(PECAM I, Loan 1820-ME). Approved in 1980, this loan fbr US$ 40 million
equivalent was similar in structure to the successor project, PECAM II, and was
characterized by mixed performance (see Project Completion Report (PCR) for Loan
1820-ME dated May 15, 1990). The second project, PECAM II (Loan 2546-ME),
attempted to resolve several weaknesses of the first project. In particular, PECAM
II addressed the weak institutional performance of several implementing agencies via
an expanded program of technical assistance. A third Bank project, the Mining
Sector Restructuring Project (Loan 3359-ME) for US$ 200 million equivalent, was
approved in 1991 and is currently under implementation (see 111.1). This third
project was designed to support broad policy changes and institutional reform in the
sector. Developed in conjunction with the 1989 Bank Report: Mexico Mining
Sector Review (Report No. 7379-ME), the design of this project incorporated a
number of lessons learned from the earlier projects and reflected the market-oriented
philosophy of the Salinas administration.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3. I   The objective of Loan 2546-ME was to expand Bank support for PECAM,
building on the concepts and experiences of the PECAM I project. Specifically, the
project aimed to: (i) provide financial and technical assistance to SMM enterprises
fbr starting or expanding evaluative exploration, mine development and exploitation
activities, and mineral beneficiation and concentration facilities; (ii) continue to
strengthen the capabilities of the institutions supporting SMM and to foster an
effective coordination among them; and (iii) encourage the participation of
commercial banks in the financing of SMM.
3.2    The loan was comprised of three components:
(a)    Credit to SMM. US$ 76 million was allocated to finance:
(i) ' Investment in fixed assets and permanent working capital via
CFM and FNM for subprojects involving mineral
exploration, development, exploitation, and beneficiation and
concentration facilities.
(ii)  Raw exploration activities through CRM.
(iii)  Technical assistance to SMMs related to investment projects.
(b)    Credit to Implementing Agencies. US$ 26 million was allocated to
CFM, FNM and CRM for:
(i)  Acquisition of mining machinery and equipment by CFM to
expand leasing to SMMs.
(ii)  Construction and expansion by CFM of regional
beneficiation plants.



5
(iii)  Acquisition and utilization of mineral exploration machinery
and equipment by CRM to assist SMMs.
(iv)  Expansion and modernization of the regional laboratory
facilities of CFM and CRM and construction of such
facilities for FNM.
(c)    Institutional Strenzthenin2/Technical Assistance. US$ 3.0 million
for:
(i)  Purchase of office equipment and consultancy services to
prepare and implement Action Plans for each of the
Implementing Agencies.
(ii)  Prepare program of studies on issues affecting the
development ot SMM.
3.3    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated to be US$ 210 million,
with 50% of the funds expected to be sourced from local counterparts as follows:
US$ 75.6 million from the Government of Mexico, US$ 9.4 million from PECAM
and the Implementing Agencies, and US$ 20 million from the SMMs. Of the
US$105 million Bank Loan, US$55 million was expected to be onlent by CFM,
US$42 million by FNM and US$5 million by CRM. An additional US$3 million
was earmarked for technical assistance to the Participating Institutions. Bank
financing would cover the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the project
(US$84 million) and US$21 million in local costs. The project was expected to
extend financial assistance to 200 SMMs, with an annual incremental mining output
of approximately US$1 10 million (Part 111.4).
4. Projeit Design and Organization
4.1   In line with the findings of the appraisal missions of November 1984 and
January 1985, the institutional structure of PECAM I established under Loan 1820-
ME was continued under PECAM 11. The Technical Secretariat of PECAM would
continue to be the institution responsible for: (i) channeling and rechanneling Bank
loan and Government funds for the program; (ii) coordinating mining sector
promotional activities among agencies; (iii) reappraising loans presented for
financing by the first and second tier lending institutions; (iv) providing a second tier
of supervision and due diligence activity, ex-post project analysis and reporting for
the program. Responsibilities including project management, credit review and loan
approval, and technical assistance program coordination were vested in PECAM's
Technical Secretariat which was supported by a Technical Secretariat (See Table 1,
Part 111.12, for PECAM organizational chart).
4.2    The three other mining sector agencies were to administer the directed credit
program as follows: (i) the CFM was to finance metallic SMM projects directly,
and to support a program of equipment leasing (it was expected that CFM would
also develop the capacity to serve as a second tier facility); (ii) the FNM was to act
as a second tier facility financing non-metallic SMM projects through commercial
banks; and (iii) the CRM would directly finance SMM exploration activity. The
PECAM Technical committee was given important credit approval rights, as the free



6
limit for the lending institutions (autonomous loan approval authority) was a low
US$ 50,000 and could be further reduced at the option of the Technical Secretariat
of PECAM depending on the subloan appraisal capability of individual participating
intermediaries. Table II (Part 111.13) defines the flow of funds, authorizations and
the paper trail associated with a typical transaction under the three-tiered institutional
arrangements established for PECAM.
4.3    The financial terms of the subloans were designed in accordance with the
GIRA (General Interest Rate Agreement) between Mexico and the Bank. Onlending
rates were to be determined in relation to the current average cost of short term
borrowing to the banking system (Average Cost of Funds, or ACF). Initially,
onlending raLes for small miners (as defined in para. 2.6) were set at 80% ot ACF
and rates for medium miners were set at 90% of ACF. Under the GIRA, these rates
were to be gradually raised to two percentage points above ACF over the 1985-1987
period. Participating commercial first-tier lenders would retain a spread of 2.5-3.0
percentage points.
4.4    The Loan provided for the cofinancing of a wide range of technical
assistance programs, 19 in all, which were designed to (i) address the training needs
of PECAM, (ii) develop accounting and information systems, and (iii) procure and
install computer and laboratory equipment for the participating line agencies. The
Loan also provided for construction of new CFM beneficiation facilities and
upgrading of the existing network. Based on the experience under PECAM 1, major
compliance conditions included the profitable operation of beneficiation plants and
improved audits, accounts, and records (Part 111.10).
4.5    The PCR of Loan 1820-ME reported that the performance of the PECAM
Technical Secretariat was inadequate and that it had not lived up to the objectives
established in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Specifically, the Technical
Secretariat had not been appropriately staffed to effectively assist a credit project and
added little more to the project than additional layers of bureaucracy (PCR, Loan
1820-ME. paras. 2.08-2.16). According to the PCR. a Bank supervision mission
fielded in September 1984 (i) reported that PECAM was not capable of fulfilling its
role and was an impediment to project progress; (ii) questioned the need for the
Technical Secretariat of PECAM; and (iii) recommended reducing the institution's
role from operational to advisory. Apparently, these findings were not considered to
be pertinent by the res'ponsible manager and not reflected in the SAR; the Technical
Secretariat's role was expanded in the second project (para. 5.14).
4.6    One criticism of Loan 2546-ME voiced in the SAR for the successor project
(Loan 3359-ME) is that the project's principal focus on directed credit was
inappropriate given the urgent need fbr reform of sectoral policies (Report 9428-
ME, paras. 3.1, 3.2). Clearly, the sectoral policy and institutional framework plays
a key role in the effectiveness of the project. The experience of the non-metallic
subloans under Loan 2546-ME, however, indicates that a well-designed directed
credit program using market-based interest rates may be reasonably effective even in
a sub-optimal policy environment. In any case, the inclusion of broad sectoral
reforms in the scope of the project was simply not an available option at the time of
preparation and appraisal of the project under review. In this sense, the project's
focus on financial and technical assistance to the sector was not misdirected. The
main project shortcomings resulted primarily from institutional factors which were
not sufficiently addressed during project preparation rather than the inclusion and
implementation of the directed credit component per se.



7
5. Project Implementation
Operation of Credit Programs
5.1    Total investment by the 490 enterprises that participated in PECAM  11
amounted to US$238 million, substantially higher than the US$159 million estimated
in the SAR (See Part 111.7). The Bank's contribution to the credit program was
US$98.8 million (94.1% of Loan 2546-ME), somewhat higher than the SAR
estimates due to the reduction of Bank financing of Category 11 activities. Actual
investment in the mining sector was much larger than anticipated by the Bank
because the SAR, based on PECAM I experiences, assumed that mining enterprises
would borrow on a highly levered 5 to I basis which proved to be unrealistic.
During a prolonged period of tight credit, high interest rates, and conceins about
loan performance, participating commercial banks sought leverage ratios of about
one to one and mining enterprises made much larger than anticipated financing
contributions. The arrangements for onlending interest rates performed adequately.
In accordance with the GIRA, the interest rate subsidy was gradually lowered. The
interest rate cap which applied to first-tier lenders under PECANI may have reduced
commercial bank enthusiasm for participation in the program but did not play a
major role in slowing disbursement undel the loan. Following, the increase of the
Special Account from US$ 8 million to US$ 12 million in 1988, disbursement under
the loan rapidly returned to levels estimated during appraisal (Part 111.3).
5.2    US$69.3 million in Bank credits (68.9% of total Bank credits) were
channeled via FNM through five participating commercial banks to finance non-
metallic mining enterprises. Most of the balance of the credit component (US$29.2
million) was used by CFM to directly finance metallic mining projects. CFM
lending under PECAM 11 fell short of SAR estimates as legal issues emerged which
prohibited CFM from operating as second-tier lender as planned in the SAR. CRM
used the remaining US$1.4 million of the credit component to finance exploration
projects (Part 111.7).
5.3    The project met SAR estimates for increased output and employment in the
overall mining sector due to (i) the greater than expected impact of credits to the
non-metallic mining sector and (ii) the increased proportion of total resources
directed to the non-metallic subsector as compared with SAR estimates (64.9%
actual vs. 40.8% at appraisal). Based on an ex-post study of 54 subprojects
comprising 56% of total PECAM 11 investment, sectoral output increased by an
estimated 5% while an estimated 4,900 new jobs were created and over 12,000
additional jobs were preserved.' The estimated ex-post project impact should be
considered a positive economic event which met overall appraisal estimates. An
unmeasured gain would be the positive balance-of-payments impact which resulted
from the export of incremental production of metallic and selected non-metallic
mineral products.
2.An ex-post study of 54 sub-projects representing 56% of total project cost was conducted
by FFM during 1993. Thirty-one enterprises representing 54% of PECAM II non-metallic
mining credits were included in the study. The sample of non-metallic SMMs may be
considered reasonably representative of the overall non-metallic subgroup. Twenty-three
enterprises representing 63% of total project financing for metallic mining were included in
the study. Thc study indicatcs that only 40-45 % of all CFM subprojects yielded any
productiw results. See Part 111.9 for further presentation of ex-post data and analysis.



8
Non-metallic minerals
5.4    A total of US$91.5 million equivalent in GOM and Bank funds was
channeled through FNM under PECAM 11. The ex-post study mentioned above
(para. 5.3) included 31 enterprises (out of 263 total) comprising 54% of PECAM 11
financing to the non-metallic subsector. Despite the inclusion of relatively large
SMMs in the sample. the Government considers the study to be broadly
representative of subproject experience under the Loan.
5.5    The non-metallic subprojects were well implemented. Tight controls kept
costs down during the development phase: FNM subprojects included in the ex-post
evaluation survey reported costs 2.3% less than the original amount budgeted at the
time of subproject appraisal. Cost escalations in acquisition of land and mineral
rights were compensated by savings in pre-operating expenses. Other categories of
expenditure were within 10% of budgeted amounts. The technical evaluation ot
these projects also proved to be of high quality. Proven and likely mineral reserves
exceeded projects estimates by nearly 5%. Good technical project evaluation
combined with tight cost controls has yielded strong financial performance of these
subprojects. Return on sales (9.0%) and return on investment (18.7%) have been on
target with estimates made during appraisal of individual subprojects. The first tier
institutions have indicated a strong repayment record for the portfolio (see Part 111.9
for presentation of ex-post data).
Metallic Minerals
5.6    The CFM  first-tier credit program for metallic minerals, which comprised
27.9% of total PECAM 11 financing or US$39.3 equivalent, provides a striking
contrast to the success of the FNNI second-tier portfolio. Subproject evaluations
conducted in 1990 and in 1993 after loan completion shared the same conclusion:
over 50% of all CFM subprojects (in value terms) were complete failures and did
not yield any economic or productive value.
5.7    The ex-post evaluation study conducted in 1993 surveyed a sample of only
23 out of 201 total CFM subprojects. However, due to the relatively large size of
the firms surveyed, the sample accounted for 63% of the total CFM portfolio in
value terms. Twenty-one of these subloans, representing 40% of the CFM total
portfolio, were reporte'd to he current with debt repayment and interest obligations at
the time of the study. FFM officials indicated that these 21 firms account for nearly
all the performing subprojects and that information on the remaining subprojects was
not available because most were either not operating or the current owners were not
willing to participate in the survey due to pending legal proceedings on loan
Mollections.
5.8    Although the survey included only the most successful CFM projects, the
data indicate severe problems in project technical evaluation and financial
management. Technical evaluation of the CFM subprojects was highly deficient, as
indicated by the 40% shortfall in proven and likely reserves when compared with
estimates made during subproject appraisal. Financial management was also poor:
total costs were 60.3% above budget, with expenditure for machinery and equipment
(71.5% over budget) and pre-operating expenses (98.6% over budget) representing
the greatest variances. Financial performance of even the relatively successful
projects has been well below projections. Return on sales (7.9%) and return on
investment (2.4%) were well below estimates made during subproject appraisal



9
(10.9% and 20.4%, respectively). The net effect of project mis-management, poor
technical evaluation and low international prices has been severe: only 6.3% of all
CFM subprojects (now transferred to FFM) representing 17% of total capital
investment are considered to be performing.3
5.9    An earlier review of the PECAM II portfblio played an important role in the
course of project implementation, setting into motion a series of organizational and
operational changes in the project implementing agencies. In 1990, a new CFM
management team, assisted by the Bank, discovered that an extraordinarily high 71%
of the 184 subprojects financed under PECAM II were non-performing. The
detailed evaluation of the troubled portfolio was conducted bv a team of independent
exploration geologist/economists who discovered numerous errors stemming from
weaknesses in CFM geological, geochemical and mine engineering appraisal
capabilities. 'I'hese errors included mis-estimations ot the type and quality ot ore
and mis-estimations ol the size, location and value of ore bodies. In addition to the
technical errors, management of participating enterprises was often poor. One
hundred and twelve projects (60.8% of all CFM projects) demonstrated
unsatisfactory management, which took the form of: (i) misapplication of credit, (ii)
excess investment for the stage of mine development, (iii) poor fiscal administration,
and (iv) legal and social difficulties.
5.10   Contributing to the problems of the CFM portfblio was the fact that as many
as 97% of all projects hnanced included some percentage of silver in the ore body
and that many of the projects were undertaken when silver prices were in the range
ol' US$ 8 to US$ 9 per ounce. In November 1990, the price of silver dropped
below US$ 5 per ounce and continued on a downward trend to reach US$ 3.90 by
year's end. At those low prices, even many of Mexico's well-established and
efficient mines slipped into the red.
5.1 1   The net eflfect of the 1990 findings was to cause CFM's management lO
rethink its organizational structure, including the extensive network of field offices.
CFMI management initiated a series of' actions designed to address the heretofore
unidentified technical weaknesses of CFM geologic personnel in evaluating
investments in the sector. These actions included a plan to use qualified external
consultants with private sector exploration experience, recruit trained credit officials
to work in field offices, and increase training of CFM staff geologists. Finally,
CFM was terminated,'and all direct lending activities were incorporated into the new
FFM (Mining Development Trust Fund) which combined FNM and CFM lending
operations.4
Exploration Activity
5.12   The CRM program to directly finance mining exploration also suffered from
poor project design and implementation. The debt financing of exploration is rarely
considered "bankable'' ue to the high risks involved. Under PECAM  1, CRM was
able to recover less than 10% of outstanding loan balances on exploration lending.
Exploration financing was extended into PECAM II, and CRM, unsurprisingly,
experienced similar difficulties in portfolio performance. CRM had little recourse to
3.As of June 30, 1993. Total includes PECAM and non-PECAM operations.
4.CFM was formally dissolved as of December 31, 1992. The privatizationvf CFM's
portfolio of metallic mining enterpnses was completed prior to that date.



10
collect because the failed exploration projects had nothing of value to offer.
Government officials indicate that collections on these projecLs have been minimal.
Credit to Implementing Agencies
5.13   Investment under Part II of the loan, intended to support machinery and
equipment leasin, and purchase, construction and rehabilitation of state-owned
beneficiation plants, and expansion and modernization of regional laboratories (para.
3.2), reached only 11% I of appraisal estimates. Investment in beneficiation plants
was quickly scaled back due to the government's correct decision to privatize or
liquidate all facilities. Disbursement for this subcomponent reached only US$ 2.8
million compared to US$ 24 million estimated during appraisal. Organizational
weaknesses slowed the development of the equipment leasing program, which was
eliminated completely following the reorganization of CFM. Only US$ 1.2 million
out of an appraised US$ 13 million was disbursed for this activity. The program of
investment in laboratories was reduced as well due to the reorganization:
consolidation of all labs under CRM cut the number of facilities required. The
CRM program to acquire exploration equipment was also eliminated during the
reorganization. No expenditure took place for this activity (Part 111.5).
Technical Assistance to Implementing Agencies
5.14   The technical assistance component of PECAM II was designed to strengthen
the participating institutions in line with the complex organizational structure created
under PECAM 1, enabling the PECAM Technical Secretariat to provide coordination
among the participating institutions and reduce the number of agencies which the
Bank would supervise under the loan. However, neither the Technical Secretariat,
CFM, or CRM were able to implement the program of institutional strengthening,
thus confirming the September 1984 PECAM I supervision mission findings (para.
4.5).
5.15   The Technical Secretariat was the core of the PECAM organizational
structure as conceived at appraisal. However, the Technical Secretariat never did
achieve the structure or skills base necessary for sound supervision of lending
operations. Secretariat staff lacked experience in project finance and were not
designated to PECAM on a full-time basis. The Technical Secretariat of PECAM
was staffed and housed by SEMIP, the ministry responsible for energy, mining, and
parastatal enterprises, which was better equipped for sectoral promotion than project
supervision. Unable to act as an effective second-tier banker on behalf of the first
tier banks, PECAM was equally unable to compensate for institutional weaknesses in
CFM and CRM. The Technical Secretariat of PECAM was from the outset an
inappropriate setting from which to control a credit project. The major conclusions
reached in this PCR regarding the operations of PECAM II confirm the findings of
the Mining Sector Restructuring Project SAR (MSRP, Loan 3359-ME, Report 9428-
ME, para. 3.14), which stated that the PECAM II coordination and credit committee
functions proved to be of little value and would not be included in the successor
project.
5.16   By the end of 1988, about midway through the project, the PECAM
Technical Secretariat and the original institutional structure for the loan had virtually
disappeared, and CFM's new senior management assumed responsibility for the
credit operations of both CFM and FNM. These actions anticipated the strategy for
restructuring the development banking system agreed upon the following year in the



I1
context of the Bank's Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3085-ME). At this
time, technical assistance was redirected in line with the realities of the institutions,
the requirements of the Mining Sector Review, and the preparation of the MSRP.
The Bank and the Government began to address the central issues of sector policy
through an open, objective and searching review of: (i) the performance of CFM
and FNM as lending institutions under the Bank loans, (ii) the quality of CFM's
loan portfblio (para. 5.9), and, in light of the findings of the review, (iii) the
measures that would need to be taken to improve CFM's institutional performance.
6. Project Results
6.1    Despite the flaws in project design and difficulties during implementation,
PECAM II proceeded to achieve overall success in pursuit of the project's primary
goal: the expansion of mining sector output through credit financing (Para 3.1(i)).
The high degree of success which the project achieved in the non-metallic mining
sector more than offset the high failure rate in the metallic minerals mining sector.
Ex-post subproject production data confirm that overall production and employment
increased as a result of the project (see para. 5.3). However, the project failed to
fulfill the second project objective, the strengthening of sectoral institutions, fbr two
main reasons. First, two principal institutions (PECAM Technical Secretariat and
CFM) were deeply flawed and not subject to a quick fix; and secondly, the
institutional arrangements were based on the continuance of sectoral policies (e.g.,
state participation in ownership of mining enterprises and beneficiation plants) which
were radically reformed during the life of the project, with the technical and
financial assistance of the Bank. The third goal, the encouragement of commercial
banks in the financing of SMMs, was met only by FNM. While FNM built a strong
portfolio of second-tier loans, CFM never gained the legal authority to offer credit
via first-tier commercial lenders.
6.2    During 1989, the Bank and the Government began to address the problems
facing PECAM as well as the broader policy issues affecting the sector as a whole
through enhanced supervision activity and implementation of the recommendations
of the Mining Sector Review (Report No. 7379-ME). In preparation of Loan 3359-
ME, the Bank fielded missions comprised of staff and consultants with strong
geologic and mining ehgineering experience, financial consultants that knew banking
and had structured mineral ventures, economists that had dealt with the technical
aspects of mining sector policy reform, and environmental experts that knew the
industry and its standards.
6.3    The findings of this sector policy and institutional review were implemented
under the successor Bank project, the MSRP, and included (i) elimination of the
PECAM Technical Secretariat, (ii) redirection of technical assistance to advance the
sectoral reform program and the strengthening of the new institutional framework,
(iii) privatization of CFM holdings in beneficiation and mining operations, (iv)
consolidation of CFM and FNM credit operations in the Fideicomiso de Fomento
Minero (FFM), and finally (v) the refocussing of CRM toward geologic survey
work. The performance of the new FFM and reoriented CRM has been very strong
under the MSRP. One might argue that ultimately the institutional development
objectives of the project were fully met although the implementation actions were
completely different from what had been envisioned six years earlier when the
project was presented to the Board.



12
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    The financial and economic impact of the project to date has been positive
on balance, increasing total sector output and employment while boosting foreign
exchange earnings (para. 5.3). The portfolio of sub-projects has had a sharply
different perfbrmance fbr non-metallic and metallic mineral subloans, as discussed
above. To assess the long-term sustainability of the project, however, performance
should be considered in light of the changing sector operating environment.
Domestic and international factors which impeded enterprise performance should be
weighed against the likely constraints to future growth.
7.2    Three factors specific to the mining sector inhibited project performance
during the implementation phase: (i) the regulatory structure for taxation, foreign
investment and concessions prior to reform, (ii) the weaknesses of the institutional
framewvrk for the sector prior to reform, and (iii) the historically low international
prices for metals, particularly silver.
7.3    Regarding factors (i) and (ii), the comprehensive reforms of both the
regulatory and institutional environment for the mining sector in Mexico has already
shown positive results. Overall investment during 1990-92 was 2.6 times greater
than investment during the previous three years. Foreign investment, which
introduced new technologies and techniques was particularly strong. The high
degree of policy consensus in Mexico and the recent ratification of the North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) should help ensure that these reforms
will continue to benefit project performance in the future. Regarding the third
factor, the impact of (a) low international rates of economic growth and (b)
technological change upon international commodity prices is more difficult to assess;
however, prices for commodities such as silver have fallen to historically low levels.
As a low-cost producer of silver and other minerals, the Mexican mining sector
should maintain competitiveness in the future.
7.4    The long-term sustainability of the credit component has been enhanced by
the consolidation of the second tier facility under the FFM, an effective and well-
staffed institution which facilitates the financing of all mineral sector projects
through the banking system. Despite the gains made by FFM, however, the long-
term viability of the SMM sector, and particularly the metallic subsector, is highly
uncertain. The extraordinarily high failure rate of PECAM II metallic subprojects
reflects not only the institutional weakness of the former CFM but also the risks
associated with investing in small and medium metallic mines.
7.5    With new and considerably improved regulations and policies in place the
future of the mineral sector overall is favorable. However, SMMs have not
participated in this resurgence and continue to experience difficulty in obtaining
investment capital. Current pressures facing the enterprises are great: the high
prevailing real peso-denominated interest rates increase project hurdle rates while the
strong peso reduces international competitiveness. In addition, SMMs face
competition from larger enterprises with access to comparatively cheap dollar-
denominated financing and foreign joint venture partners. Press reports indicate a
high rate of metallic SMM failures since 1990. Further investigation would be
needed to determine the viability of the metallic SMM sector in the post-deregulation
environment.



13
7.6    The MSRP continues the program of Bank support to SMM in Mexico.
This project includes a directed line of credit administered by FFM and extensive
technical assistance to assist and support SMM development. The Directorate
General of Mines also receives institutional support under the ongoing project. In
addition, FFM has undertaken efforts to establish regional venture capital funds to
increase equity financing of the sector.
8. Bank Performance
8.1    Loan 2546-ME resulted in expanded SMM production, job creation and
generation of foreign exchange in the non-metallic subsector (para. 5.3), but the
experience in the support for metallic mineral projects was dismal (para. 5.6). In
addition, PECAM 11 was beset by a number of operational and institutional
problems, as discussed above (Sections 5 and 6). Inadequate management and
staffing on the part of the Bank during the identification, preparation and early
supervision stages of the project cycle was an important cause of these problems.
Critically, key Bank project staff during these phases displayed weak technical and
financial skills.
8.2    The Bank's involvement in directed credit to the mining sectors was initiated
in 1980 starting with the preparation of PECAM I. The high default ratios exhibited
by PECAM I lending through CFM, which according to official CFM accounts rose
from 13.7% to 18.3% from 1983 to 1984 (SAR, Annex 6, p. 49), indicated that
something was seriously wrong with the project's investment risk policy and/or
CFM's geologic evaluation skills. A weakness of Bank performance in the
preparation of PECAM II was that it did not adequately take into account the
underlying reasons for PECAM I's non-performance.
8.3   PECAM I's problems were identified in the PECAM II SAR as moderate
and repairable through technical assistance. PECAM n moved rapidly through the
management review cycle (Part I11.2) and emerged essentially unchanged with regard
to the credit components. Although the specific causes had not yet been identified,
the high default ratio under PECAM I indicated that major problems existed in the
CFM program.
8.4   Starting in 1987 the Bank took measures to strengthen oversight of the
project and to identify compliance and operational issues, bringing to the project
appropriate senior technical and financial advisors through an expanded program of
supervision. In close collaboration with the new Mexican administration, the major
project problems were studied and solutions proposed. With the benefit of a major
Bank Mining Sector Review (Report 7379-ME), the Government and Bank acted
very rapidly to eliminate the PECAM Technical Secretariat and redirect the project's
technical assistance program to promote restructuring of the sector's institutions
(para. 5.16). The MSRP, signed in 1991, and the 1992 Mining Law were the direct
result of the Bank-Government dialogue initiated under PECAM II and strengthened
during the Mining Sector Review.



14
9. Borrower Performance
9.1    The performance of the Borrower and some of the implementing agencies,
although mixed during the preparation and implementation phases of the project, was
satisfactory overall considering the initial project design weaknesses and the
subsequent bold and comprehensive sectoral reform program undertaken by the
Government. In addition, Borrower performance during project preparation and
initial implementation phases should be understood in the context of severe
macroeconomic instability entailing high and variable inflation, negative economic
growth, and monetary and credit restrictions (para. 2.4). The Borrower performed
well the tasks related to coordinating Bank contact with the Implementing Agencies,
which included the administration of funds, project correspondence and monitoring.
9.2    Following signing of the loan, effectiveness was significantly delayed due to
the lack of available Government counterpart financing during a period of
macroeconomic difficulty and pronounced budgetary constraint. Following loan
effectiveness, the implementing agencies performed their functions with varying
degrees of success. As mentioned above, FNM was highly successful in assisting
the non-metallic mining sub-sector via second-tier credits to the commercial banks.
The low loss ratios for the FNM program, which constituted 68.9% of all credits
financed under the loan, form the basis for the project's overall success.
9.3    The other implementing agencies, CFM, CRM and the Technical Secretariat
performed much worse than FNM. The Technical Secretariat was characterized by
poor communication and coordination with the implementing agencies, weak
capacity as project review committee, and high staff turnover rates. The PECAM
Technical Secretariat never became fully operational and was effectively dissolved
during 1988. The CFM- and CRM-implemented credit programs for metallic
minerals and exploration, respectively, performed poorly. Weak project technical
evaluation capacity resulted in the financing of numerous uneconomic projects.
CRM lacked the capacity to serve as a first- or second-tier intermediary and deal
with due diligence and loan collection issues.
9.4    The weak performance of these implementing agencies should be considered
in the context of (i) their reduced role in the final project compared with the
successful FNM component (para. 5.3), (ii) the inappropriateness of the institutional
design of the original project (para. 5.15), and (iii) the difficult macroeconomic
situation encountered during most of the implementation period (para. 2.4). Taking
these factors into consideration, the Borrower's and implementing agencies'
performance under the loan agreement may be considered acceptable.
10. Project Relationship
10.1   The Bank maintained a close working relationship with the Borrower and
implementing agencies over the course of project appraisal and implementation.
Interaction between the Bank, Borrower, and implementing agencies proved critical
to project operations. In particular, early delays in project implementation were
reversed through a series of corrective actions which included increasing the size of
the Special Account (para. 5.1). Close communication enabled the Bank to work
with the Government on reorienting the technical assistance portions of the loan in



15
accordance with the sectoral stategy developed following the Mining Sector Review
of 1988.
10.2   During project preparation and appraisal, however, both the Bank and
Borrower should have been more attuned to the shortcomings of the institutional
arrangements under PECAM I and attempted to develop corrective actions. Both
institutions should have been more realistic in assessment of the technical assistance
component and instead opted for a more streamlined institutional design.
10.3  The Borrower and CFM's new management adopted an open and very
objective attitude toward the project in late 1988 and 1989, exhibiting a willingness
to examine each shortcoming in project and institutional performance. This
deveopment directly led to sharp changes in program perfbrmance and the
elimination of all first tier lending operations. One of the implementing agencies,
FNM, should also be commended for efforts to increase commercial banking activity
in the sector. By promoting second-tier credits, FNM played a strong role in
attracting the interest of commercial bankers and helping them to develop the
technical skills and experience necessary to service the sector's credit needs
effectively.
11. Consulting Services
11.1   The use of consultants by the Bank was on balance very useful during
project supervision; however, use of qualified consultants with sector-specific skills
and experience during identification, appraisal and early supervision could have
proven helpful in evaluating the project's institutional and financial provisions
11.2 Consultants were used by the implementing agencies to develop and install
computer and accounting systems. Following the institutional reorganizations which
began in 1989-1990, these services were effectively used to enhance the performance
and reliability of financial, accounting and other information systems.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1   Documentation and data for the project include the Loan, Guarantee, and
Project Agreements, the SAR, the Supervision and Back-to-Office Reports from the
supervision missions, audits and progress reports received from the Borrower, and
other project related correspondence.
12.2 The project legal agreements and the Staff Appraisal Report generally
assisted project start-up and implementation as conceived at the time. However,
these documents failed to identify that CFM lacked the legal authority to act as a
second tier institution and therefore was not legally able to serve in the capacity
foreseen during appraisal. Supervision reports provided detailed information on the
issues addressed during project implementation.
12.3   The Borrower and the successor to the project implementing agencies
provided ample data-gathering assistance during the PCR mission conducted in



16
December, 1992. A study of CFM and FNM sub-project performance was prepared
by FFM and submitted to the Bank on October 18, 1993.
13. Lesson Learned
13.1   The main lessons learned from experience under PECAM II were:
(i)    Well-designed mining sector credit projects which are channeled through the
commercial banking system using market-based interest rates may efficiently
create employment and foreign exchange and have other positive impacts,
but only when the highly specific technical and financial requirements of the
sector are properly addressed. Issues regarding subproject evaluation and
financing should be resolved regardless of the prevailing policy framework
for the sector. In the case of this project, the time lag between the extension
of productive term credit to the sector and the appearance of economic
benefits from sound investments financed proved to be relatively short.
(ii)   The project could have largely avoided the high losses from CFM and CRM
subprojects if the debt financing of mining exploration and high risk first-tier
lending for SMM development had been excluded, as had been suggested by
the experience of the PECAM I project.
(iii)   The Bank willingness to finance mining sector activity prior to
comprehensive refbrm enabled the Bank to participate as the policy dialogue
emerged. The Bank established credibility by placing senior technical staff
and consultants to work with country counterparts during later phases of
project implementation, and was thus well-positioned to help shape the new
sectoral framework through the Mining Sector Review of 1989.
(iv)   The viability of complex and partly untried institutional arrangements for a
sector project should be carefully assessed in light of the weaknesses of the
existing framework and the Government support for necessary changes. Full
use of previous project experience is critical in assessing the viability of
these arrangements and designing necessary improvements. Operational and
technical assislance objectives should be kept simple and easy to monitor in
order to reduce the likelihood of institutional failure.
(v)    First-tier credit programs should not be operated by Government institutions
due to the poor incentives for cost controls and commercial project risk
evaluation. If the decision is taken to create a financial intermediary under
the responsibility of a sector ministry which lacks technical and financial
experience in the field, implementation of such a project should receive
particularly careful monitoring. Second-tier credit programs offer significant
advantages because (i) commercial first-tier lenders are subject to market
forces in allocation of credit and therefore have the incentive for due
diligence and (ii) the Government is not liable for loan losses even if the
commercial first-tier lender fails to conduct adequate subproject evaluation.



17
Second Stage of the Special Complementary Program
of Assistance to Small and Medium Mining (PECAM m
Project Completion Report
Part II
Point of View of the Executing Agencies Regarding
Project ImRlementation and Development"
The granting of credits to small and medium scale mining under
PECAM II enabled the sub-borrowers to develop the mining projects through
application of the funds to the acquisition of necessary machinery and
equipment; facilitated the installation of the required plants for the
beneficiation of metallic and non-metallic minerals; and propitiated the
construction of roads, generating an important number of new jobs. Taken
together, these factors resulted in the creation of focus points for sustained
development. In addition, the implementing agencies of the mining programs
substantially improved the infrastructure for the sector through the financing
received under PECAM II.
During the initial phase, the program was justifiably controlled
directly by the Secretariat of Energy, Mines, and Parastatal Industry
(SEMIP) through the Technical Secretariat of PECAM. At the appropriate
time, beginning in September 1989, to improve the program the
administration was transferred to the Mining Development Commission.
The financing was channeled through three executing agencies:
a)    The Mining Development Commission (CFM) - encharged with the
authorization of direct credits to metallic small and medium mining.
b)    The Mining Development Trust Fund (FFM) - attended the financing
of non-metallic mining projects, primarily through discounted credits
channeled through commercial banks.
c)    The Mineral Resources Council (CRM) - applied credits to
exploration studies and to the quantification of mineral reserves.
Due to the legal limitations to the operation of the three
abovementioned organizations, the Mining Development Trust Fund was the
only agency to channel credits via commercial banks.
1/The original Spanish text of Part 11 is contained in Annex 1.



18
Regarding the credits authorized by the Mining Development
Commission, a series of problems came together to make a large number of
the projects inviable:
1)    The drop in the price of metals.
2)    Errors in the conduct of studies.
3)    Errors in the determination of reserves and the estimation of mineral
quality.
4)    Insufficient supervision and follow-up.
With respect to the credits authorized by the Mining Development
Trust Fund, several of the abovementioned problems did not effect the results
of these subprojects. For example, the fall in metals prices did not impact
the subprojects because this institution dealt only with non-metallic projects.
In addition, the Trust Fund supported its credits with adequate supervision,
resulting in success for the majority of these projects.
During implementation of the program, especially during the 1990-
1992 period, the Federal Government undertook an aggressive program of
restructuring with the goal of increased efficacy and efficiency in public
administration, during which a large number of public organizations,
dependencies, and companies were privatized, liquidated, or merged. With
the enactment of the new Mining Law, new responsibilities were assigned to
the government agencies in the sector. For this reason, the Mining
Development Commission disappeared and the functions of the Mining
Development Trust Fund and Mineral Resources Council were readapted and
strengthened.
The majority of the functions of the CFM were transferred to the
FFM. This transfer has resulted in important advantages, which include the
following:
a)    A substantial decrease in operating expenses through a reduction from
650 to 250 employees.
b)    The creation of an institution with strong financial capabilities to
channel and direct resources based on profitability, productivity, and
efficiency.
c)    The interaction of the first tier banks with a highly capable financial
agent which facilitates the identification of credit operations.
d)    The clear distinction between the inherent functions of the Trust
Fund, which are exclusively financial and entail evaluation and control, and
the direct responsibilities of the creditors.
e)    The possibility of realizing the improved evaluation and follow-up of
the projects.



19
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
LOAN TITLE                         PURPOSE                        YEAR OF   STATUS    COMMENTS
APPROVAL
Loan 1820-ME         To support the Government development              1980            Closed      PCR was released to
Small and Medium      strategy for small and medium scale mining                       5/31/86      the Executive Directors
Scale Mining         (SMM) by financing (i) investment needs of                                      on 5/11/90
Development          SMM enterprises, (ii) construction of
Project              beneficiation plants and laboratory
facilities, (iii) and training and technical
assistance to the executing agencies.
Loan 3359-ME         To support the Government program to              1991            Effective    Overall project progress
Mining Sector        deregulate the mining sector and stimulate                        11/25/91     to date is satisfactory.
Restructuring        private domestic and foreign investment                                        Loan is expected to be
Project              through the establishment of an appropriate                                    closed on June 30,
policy and institutional framework, to build                                   1996.
broader financial market support to the
mining industry, and to help finance the
expected surge in demand for investment
funding.



20
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date             Date             Date
Item                      Planned           Revised           Actual
Identification              07/84                             07/84
Preparation                 09/84                            09/12/84
Pre-appraisal                 *                                 *
Appraisal Mission           11/84                            11/13/84
Post-Appraisal Mission      01/85                            01/20/85
Loan Negotiations          03/85                             03/25/85
Board Approval              05/85                            05/21/85
Loan Signature             06/85            10/05/85         10/05/85
Loan Effectiveness         08/85           01/07/86          04/02/86
Loan Closing              12/31/91          12/31/92         12/31/92
Loan Completion           12/31/91          12/31/92         04/30/93
'The pre-appraisal mission was upgraded to appraisal mission.



21
3, Loan Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
Period Ending             Appraisal      Actual        Actual/
Estimate                    Estimate
FY86      Dec. 85               1.5           0.0         0.0%
Jun. 86              6.3           8.3       131.7%
FY87      Dec. 86              14.7           8.3        56.5%
Jun. 87             25.7          12.4        48.2%
FY88      Dec. 87              38.3          16.5        43.1%
Jun. 88             52.1          23.3        44.7%
FY89      Dec. 88              65.2          58.1        89.1%
Jun. 89             76.7          77.0       100.4%
FY90      Dec. 89              86.2          86.2       100.0%
Jun. 90             93.5          91.8        98.2%
FY91      Dec. 90              98.8          99.9       101.1%
Jun. 91            102.5         103.0       100.5%
FY92      Dec. 91             105.0         103.5        98.6%
Jun. 92            105.0         104.3        99.3%
FY93       Dec. 92            105.0         104.4        99.4%
Jun. 93            105.0         105.0       100.0%
Date of Last Disbursement: 4/30/93. Remaining balance of $44,605.59 cancelled.
Loan Disbursements
Estimated vs. Actual
120.0
100.0
Z  80.0
60.0
40.0
20.0
0.0
00      00       00        00 Em             ON       ONcta
Estimated           Actual



22
4. FINANCING AT APPRAISAL
BANK VS. LOCAL FINANCING BY CATEGORY
(Millions of USS)
Component                        IBRD           Local          Total
Counterpart
Category 1                             76             83            159
Category II                             26            21             47
Category III                             3             1              4
Total                                105            105            210
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS BY CATEGORY
(Millions of US$)
Component                      Local Cost      Foreign    Bank Financing
Exchange    of Local Cost
Category I                              99            60          16.2%
Category II
Equip. Leasing                         8              5
Beneficiation                         14             10
Laboratories                           2             4
Expl. Equip.                           1              3
Sub-total                            25            22           16.0%
Category III                             2             2          50.0%
Total Project                          126            84          16.7%



23
5. PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
(Millions of US$)
Category                   Appraisal    Actual        % Difference
Investments by SMMs               159.0        238.2         49.8%
Investments by CFM, FNM, CRM
Equipment Leasing                 13.0          1.2        -91.1%
Beneficiation Plants              24.0          2.8        -88.4%
Laboratories                       6.0          1.4        -76.2%
Exploration Equipment              4.0          0.0       -100.0%
Sub-total                         47.0          5.4        -88.6%
Technical Assistance                4.0          2.8        -29.2%
Total                             210.0        246.4          17.3%
6. PROJECT FINANCING BY SOURCE
(Millions of US$)
Source                     Appraisal    Actual        % Difference
IBRD                              105.0        105.0          0.0%
GOM                                85.0         36.0         -57.6%
Private                            20.0        105.4        426.8%
Total                             210.0        246.4          17.3%



24
7. PROJECT FINANCE BY SOURCE AND USE
(Millions of US$)
IBRD        GOM        Private        Total
Category I
CFM                28.2        11.1         37.4         76.7
FFM                69.3        22.2         67.4        158.9
CRM                 1.4         0.7         0.5           2.6
Total             98.8        34.0        105.4        238.2
Category II
CFM                 2.9         1.7         0.0           4.6
FFM                 0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0
CRM                 0.5         0.3         0.0           0.8
Total              3.4         2.0         0.0           5.4
Category III
CFM                 1.5         0.0         0.0           1.5
FFM                 0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0
CRII                1.1         0.0         0.0           1.1
Technical Secre      0.2         0.0          0.0          0.2
Total              2.8         0.0         0.0           2.8
CFM Total           32.6        12.8         37.4         82.8
FFM Total           69.3        22.2         67.4        158.9
CRM Total            3.0         1.0          0.5          4.5
Technical Secre      0.2         0.0          0.0          0.2
Project Total      105.0        36.0        105.4        246.4



8. USE OF PECAM FUNDS BY IMPLEMENTING AGENCY AND PURPOSE
(Millions of US$)
Iand         Civil      Equipment    Working    Preoperating         Total
Works                      Capital      Expense
CFM                           0.0          6.2          27.9           3.8           7.4           45.4
FNM                           0.9          6.6          74.8           7.7           1.5           91.5
CRM                           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           4.0            4.0
Technical Secretariat         0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.2            0.2
Total                       0.9          12.8         102.7         11.6           13.1          141.0
CFM                         0.0%         4.4%         19.8%          2.7%          5.3%          32.2%
FNM                         0.6%         4.7%         53.0%          5.5%           1.0%         64.8%
CRM                                                                                2.8%           2.8%
Technical Secretariat                                                              0.2%           0.2%
Total                      0.6%         9.1%         72.8%         8.2%           9.3%         100.0%
Note: PECAM funds include IBRD and GOM resources but exclude private investment.



26
9. PROJECT RESULTS
Indicator                                         Appraisal         Actual
Estimate        Result*
Employment Created
CFM                                                                     2,015
FNM                                                                     2,876
CRM                                                                       N/A
Total                                        5,000 - 6,000            4,891
Employment Preserved
CFM                                                                     1,721
FNM                                                                    10,855
CRM                                                                       N/A
Total                                        No estimate             12,575
Incremental Production**
CFM                                                                   66,897
FNM                                                                  903,053
CRM                                                                       N/A
Total                                        US$ 110 m              969,949
Number of SMM beneficiaries
CFM                                                                       201
FNM                                                                       263
CRM                                                                        26
Total                                        200                        490
*Employment and production figures were derived by applying ex-post data (9 of subproject
appraisal goal met) to ex-ante estimates of increased absolute production and employment.
Ex-post data did not include explicit estimates of incremental tons produced or overall
employment gains.
**CFM incremental production represents tons of raw ore and/or concentrates; FNM figures
refer to incremental finished units and/or tons produced.



27
Ex-Post Sample Characteristics
in Current U.S. Dollars
Sample        Total Project   % of Total
Bank Credit
Perf. Metal*        12,861,373                      45.6%
Non-perf Metal*      6,789,600                      24.1%
Metal Total        19,650,973    28,200,000       69.7%
Non-metals          39,516,156    69,300,000       57.0%
Total              59,167,129    97,500,000       60.7%
Govt Credit
Perf. Metal          3,359,309                      30.3%
Non-perf Metal       1,697,400                      15.3%
Metal Total         5,056,709    11,100,000       45.6%
Non-metals           9,966,946    22,200,000       44.9%
Total              15,023,655    33,300,000       45.1%
Total Credit
Perf. Metal         16,220,682                      41.3%
Non-perf Metal       8,487,000                     21.6%
Metal Total        24,707,682    39,300,000       62.9%
Non-metals          49,483,102    91,500,000       54.1%
Total              74,190,784    130,800,000      56.7%
*Performing metallic subprojects
**Non-performing metallic subprojects



28
Ex-Post Study: Subproject Finances
in Current U.S. Dollars
Projected     Actual        Variance
Total Project Cost
Perf. Metal         23,922,671     21,128,470       -11.7%
Non-perf Metal      16,098,100    43,032,852        167.3%
Metal Total        40,020,771    64,161,322         60.3%
Non-metals          79,262,790    77,469,205         -2.3%
Project Total        119,283,561    141,630,527       18.7%
Fixed Assets
Perf. Metal         22,391,549     16,290,045       -27.2%
Non-perf Metal      15,579,800    42,696,652        174.1%
Metal Total        37,971,349    58,986,697        55.3%
Non-metals          73,017,407     70,595,341        -3.3%
Working Capital
Perf. Metal           1,531,122     4,285,580       179.9%
Non-perf Metal         518,300       336,200        -35.1%
Metal Total         2,049,422     4,621,780        125.5%
Non-metals           6,245,320      5,964,514        -4.5%
Own Resources
Perf. Metal          7,625,824      4,329,065       -43.2%
Non-perf Metal       7,611,100     10,896,100        43.2%
Metal Total        15,236,924     15,225,165        -0.1%
Non-metals          26,830,401     33,808,597        26.0%
Resources of Implementing Agency
Perf. Metal            153,744       900,417        485.7%
Non-perf Metal              0              0
Metal Total           153,744       900,417       485.7%
Non-metals                  0              0
Other Financing
Perf. Metal             96,025       511,570        432.7%
Non-perf Metal              0              0
Metal Total            96,025       511,570       432.7%
Non-metals           9,513,000      3,124,000       -67.2%



29
Ex-Post Study: Output and Reserves
Projected     Actual        Variance
Proven Reserves
Perf. Metal         2,663,932      1,516,459       -43.1%
Non-perf Metal        930,417      2,413,115       159.4%
Metal Total        3,594,349     3,929,574          9.3%
Non-metals         119,745,298    115,604,400       -3.5%
Likely Reserves
Perf. Metal          1,004,654      661,190        -34.2%
Non-perf Metal              0       348,928
Metal Total        1,004,654      1,010,118         0.5%
Non-metals         168,392,500    185,427,300       10.1%
Cotizacion
Perf. Metal             4,326         2,772        -35.9%
Non-perf Metal            434           710         63.6%
Metal Total            4,760         3,482        -26.8%
Non-metals             13,146        12,869         -2.1%
Production
Perf. Metal           449,450       228,300        -49.2%
Non-perf Metal        167,500       287,892         71.9%
Metal Total          616,950       516,192        -16.3%
Non-metals          7,721,606      6,942,359       -10.1 %
Increase in Installed Capacity
Perf. Metal               300           400         33.3%
Non-perf Metal            168           540        221.4%
Metal Total             468            940        100.9%
Non-metals            509,482      1,366,028       168.1%
Note: Units not consistent. Valid in percentage terms only.



30
Ex-Post Study: Use of Funds
Projected     Actual        Variance
Use of funds:
Land
Perf. Metal           223,353       223,353          0.0%
Non-perf Metal              0       186,399           N/A
Metal Total          223,353       409,752         83.5%
Non-metals            269,948       380,000         40.8%
Civil Works
Perf. Metal         3,504,639      1,942,462       -44.6%
Non-perf Metal      5,555,000      9,299,135        67.4%
Metal Total        9,059,639     11,241,597        24.1%
Non-metals          8,965,825      9,874,646        10.1%
Machinery/Equipment
Perf. Metal         16,569,299    14,285,740       -13.8%
Non-perf Metal      9,019,600     29,601,717       228.2%
Metal Total       25,588,899    43,887,457         71.5%
Non-metals         55,956,436     56,852,402         1.6%
Transport Equip.
Perf. Metal         1,001,747       699,948        -30.1%
Non-perf Metal              0       771,978           N/A
Metal Total        1,001,747      1,471,926        46.9%
Non-metals          1,299,084      1,480,503        14.0%
Preop. Expenses
Perf. Metal         1,093,381      1,330,165        21.7%
Non-perf Metal      1,005,200     2,837,423        182.3%
Metal Total        2,098,581     4,167,588        98.6%
Non-metals          7,396,128      3,583,043       -51.6%
Working Capital
Perf. Metal         1,530,322      2,646,801        73.0%
Non-perf Metal        518,300       336,200        -35.1%
Metal Total        2,048,622     2,983,001        45.6%
Non-metals          5,375,369      5,298,611        -1.4%



31
Ex-Post Study: Revenues, Income and
Employment Impact
Projected     Actual         Variance
Income
Perf. Metal         44,875,831      6,326,502        -85.9%
Non-perf Metal      43,361,321     47,435,900          9.4%
Metal Total        88,237,152     53,762,402        -39.1%
Non-metals         157,666,807    160,329,306          1.7%
Net Profit
Perf. Metal          4,879,769        496,861        -89.8%
Non-perf Metal       9,558,482       -554,586       -105.8%
Metal Total        14,438,251        -57,725       -100.4%
Non-metals          14,521,393     14,478,327         -0.3%
ROS
Perf. Metal             10.9%           7.9%          -27.8%
Non-perf Metal          22.0%          -1.2%        -105.3%
Metal Total            16.4%          -0.1 %       -100.7%
Non-metals               9.2%           9.0%           -2.0%
ROI
Perf. Metal             20.4%           2.4%          -88.5%
Non-perf Metal          59.4%          -1.3%        -102.2%
Metal Total            36.1%          -0.1 %       -100.2%
Non-metals              18.3%          18.7%           2.0%
Employment Generated
Perf. Metal                329            194         -41.0%
Non-perf Metal             177            195         10.2%
Metal Total               506           389         -23.1%
Non-metals                 858            404         -52.9%
Employment Conserved
Perf. Metal                386            161         -58.3%
Non-perf Metal             224            190         -15.2%
Metal Total              610            351         -42.5%
Non-metals               1,302          1,261         -3.1%



10. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Agreement and Section       Description                       | Date in Covenant            | Revised | Status   | Comments
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    l          l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  D ate  l  l
CFM Project Agreement:
2.01 (b)                    Lending and Leasing Policies                                                OK          Full compliance
2.01 (c)(i)(iii)            Breakeven pricing for               Three years after operation             OK         Tolling rates increased by government
beneficiation plants (tolling rate    for each facility                               to maximize net revenue beginning in
increases)                                                                             1989. 17 out of 19 beneficiation
plants have been privatized or
liquidated (4/93). Other 2 to follow.
2.01 (c)(ii)                Accounting standards for                                                    OK          Cost accounting program implemented
beneficiation plants                                                                   for each plant.
3.01 (a)                    Accounting and reporting                                                    OK          CFM consolidated statements received
standards for CFM                                                                      heavily qualified acceptance by
outside auditor due to poor inflation
accounting and missing subsidiary
accounts.
Accounting policies and practices for
reporting of income and loan loss
provisions were adjusted in line with
Bank recommendations.
3.01 (b)                    Audit reports submission within                                             OK
L six months of fiscal year end.



3.01 (c)(iii)              Audit provisions/end use                                               OK         External auditors did not conduct
certification                                                                     subproject field visits due to high
cost. Instead, Bank required auditor
to evaluate CFM policies and
procedures for subproject
procurement and supervision.
CRM Project Agreement:
2.01 (c)                   Exercising of rights to protect                                        OK         High percentage of raw exploration
interest of the Borrower                                                          programs financed had negative or
unknown results.
3.01 (c)(i)(iii)           Maintenance of separate                                                OK         CRM did maintain separate project
Statement of Expenditure                                                          accounts audited in line with Auditor
accounts                                                                          General regulations. Delivery of
audited accounts to the Bank was
substantially delayed.
FNM Project Agreement:
6.01 (c)                   Audit provisions/end use                                               OK         External auditors did not conduct field
certification                                                                     visits to clients of 30 first tier lenders
to determine end-use of resources.
Bank decided to replace this provision
with requirement that auditor evaluate
FNM monitoring of PFI performance
of subproject supervision policies and
practices.



34
11. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff inpu
Activity                     Staff
Weeks
Appraisal                     40.8
Post Appraisal                20.4
Supervision                   77.8
PCR                            9.7
Total                       148.7
Note: No estimate of staff inputs was undertaken during appraisal
L Missions
Activity     Date    Number   Specialization    Number   Staff    Date of
of Persons                 of Weeks  Weeks    Report
Pre-Appraisal     9/84    5    POF, FNA, OTH           2.5         9      10/84
Appraisal        11/84    5    POF, FNA, OTH           2.5      11.5      11/84
Post-Appraisal    1/85    2    POF, FNA                 1.5        2       1/85
Supervision*     10/85    2    POF, FNA                  1         2      12/85
Supervision      12/85     1    FNA                    0.6       0.6       1/86
Supervision       4/87    2    POF, FNA                2.4       4.8       4/87
Supervision       9/87    3    POF, FNA, OTH            1.5      4.5      10/87
Supervision       2/88    3    POF, FNA                 1.5      4.5       4/88
Supervision       2/89    3    POF, FNA, OTH            1.5      4.5       5/89
Supervision*      6/89    4    POF, FNA, OTH           0.5         2       8/89
Supervision       3/91     2    POF, FNA                1.3      2.6       4/91
PCR              12/92     1    POF                      1         1       5/93
* Combined with supervision of other projects.
Specialties: Project Officer (POF); Financial Analyst (FNA); Legal (LEG); Other (OTH)



35
12. Table I
PECAM Organization Chart
Coordinating Committee                         Policy
President: Subsecretary of Mines and Energy         - Credit Committee
(approval of subloans)
SHCP
NAFIN
CFM
FNM
Technical Secretariat            - Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects
Technical Secretariat                       - Technical Studles for PECAM
Subsecretary General - PECAM                   Data Base & Coordination with NAFIN
- Channel for Program Funds
- Uason with Bank
Director - PECAM
I    
Subdirector - PECAM
Withdrawals and
Project Evaluation Dept.       Records Dept.
- Chief                       - Chief
- Professional Staff          - Professional Staff
- Support Staff               - Support Staff



36
Table II: PECAM Flow of Funds Diagram
1)
|. B I>>  Contral Bank of Mexico (BNM) I->>-f NAFINSA [  (Borrower)
2)                                                    1    <(<Rqueats funds for Projoct 'A(<<
(<<-National Treasury (NT)                        Spocial I<<
(Counterpart Funds)                          Loan  |
i      I                             |~~~~~Account >>
Sp.cial Fundx|                             i>>NAFINSA sends CFM Treasury
|                            ~~~~~~~~~check for Projoct "A">>
>>Senda 'A' subproject for approval         r->>)
I      I       r-Approve  'Al
F     FM      )T>)                            ))    PECA>       | Subproj;ct
t      I   X  |   <<Send- check for  A"<<                       -Advises CFN
|   L__cm  -< t<-                                    Treasury to pay F||
L<<<-                              (<<---I  I                                  III
<<Sends Advise on Report          CFU         <<
CR                   of Counterpart from NT<<   Treauaury            <<<.  -
|Projct Unit                                       Dopartment F>--
!q CFU 
IProject Unit 
- Sp.ciai Counterpart funds released to agencies in accordance with a fixod schedule.
- CFM Treasury received advise on all roceipts of counterpart fund.
- Upon ropayment, Principal and Interest wont to PECAM's Special Fund.



37
ANNEX 1: Original Spanish Version of Part I



38
BBL- 939 -XII-93-(7246)
GERENCIA DE FINANCIAMIENTOS XULTILATERALES
7 de diciembre de 1993
SR. DANIEL CRISAFULLI
Jefo de ls Divisl6n de operaciones para M4xico
Departam-nto II
1818 H. ST, N.W. Washington, D.C.
20433, U.S.A.
Me refiero al Prestamo 2546-ME, Proyecto Complementario de Apoyo a
la Pequefia y Mediana Mineria (PECAM II), contratado con ese
organismo Internacional y especificamente al Reporte de Terminaci6n
del Proyecto (PCR).
Sobre el particular, anexo me permito enviar a usted la parte II
del reporte de la referencia. Asimismo, mucho le agradecerG nos
informe si dicha informacion es suficiente para el efecto.
Sin mds por el momento, aprovecho la ocasi6n para enviarle un
cordial saludo.
A T          A M E N T E
LIC. JU        L IZQUIZRDO SOSA
Gerente
Anexo:   Lo citado
c.c.p.    Lic. Ram6n Benitez Galarza .- Subdir ctor de
Proyectos Productivos e Infraestructura.- SHCP
c.c.p.    Lic. Timoteo Harris Howard.- Subdirector de Organismos
Internacionales.- NAFIN.
c.c.p.    C.P. AdriAn Hirata Iwasaki.- Gerente de Financiamientos
Externos.- FFM.- Av. Puente de Tecamachalco 26.
JMIS*AEP*EAG*ABC



39
SEGUNDA ETAPA DEL PROGRAMA ESPECIAL COMPLEMENTARIO DE
APOYO A LA PEQUENA Y MEDIANA MINERIA (PECAM II)
INFORME DE TERMINACION DEL PROYECTO
PARTE II
PUNTO DE VISTA DE LOS ORGANISMOS EJECUTORES CON
RELACION A LA IMPLEMENTACION Y DESARROLLO DEL
PROYECTO.
El otorgamiento de creditos a pequenos y medianos mineros, mediante la
utilizaci6n de los recursos provenientes del PECAM II hizo posible que los
acreditados pudieran desarrollar sus proyectos mineros, aplicandolos a la
adquisici6n de maquinaria y equipo necesarios, facilitando la instalaci6n de las
plantas de beneficio de minerales metalicos y no metalicos que se requerfan,
propiciando la construcci6n de caminos, generando un importante ndmero de
empleos; todo esto dando lugar a la creaci6n de autenticos polos de desarrollo.
En otro orden de ideas, los organismos ejecutores de los programas mineros,
mejoraron sustancialmente su infraestructura, en funci6n de los financiamientos
recibidos provenientes del PECAM 11.
En su etapa inicial, justificadamente el programa fue controlado directamente por
la Secretaria de Energia Minas e Industria Paraestatal, mediante el Secretariado
Tecnico del PECAM. En su adecuado momento, a partir de septiembre de 1989,
para hacer mas expedito su funcionamiento, su administraci6n fue transferida a
la Comisi6n de Fomento Minero.
Los financiamientos se canalizaron por medio de tres organismos ejecutores:
a) La Comisi6n de Fomento Minero.- Se encarg6 del otorgamiento de creditos
a la pequefia y mediana minerfa metalicas, vfa creditos directos.
b) El Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero.- Atendi6 el financiamiento de proyectos
de minerfa no metalica, basicamente a traves de redescuentos con la banca
comercial.
c) El Consejo de Recursos Minerales.- Encauz6 los creditos a estudios de
exploraci6n y cuantificaci6n de reservas minerales.



40
Por limitaciones de caracter legal, de los tres organismos mencionados, el uinico
facultado para canalizar los creditos por conducto de la banca comercial era el
Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero.
En relaci6n con los creditos otorgados por la Comisi6n de Fomento Minero,
concurrieron una serie de problemas, que en suma hicieron inviables un gran
numero de proyectos:
1) La caida de los precios de los metales.
2) Errores en la elaboraci6n de los estudios.
3) Errores en la determinaci6n de las reservas, y en la estimaci6n de las leyes
de los minerales.
4) Insuficiente supervisi6n y asistencia de los proyectos.
Con respecto a los cr6ditos otorgados por el Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero,
algunas causas de los problemas apuntados, como son la cafda de los precios de
los metales, no incidieron en sus resultados, por obvias razones, toda vez que
se trata de proyectos no metalicos. A esta raz6n, agregado que se apoyaron los
cr6ditos con un adecuado seguimiento de los mismos por parte del Fideicomiso,
dio como resultado que la mayorfa de los proyectos fueran exitosos.
Durante el desarrollo del programa, especialmente en el perfodo 1990-1992, el
Gobierno Federal, puso en marcha una agresiva polftica de redimensionamiento,
buscando con ello lograr una mayor eficacia y eficiencia en la administraci6n
publica, mediante la cual se desincorpor6, liquid6 o fusion6 una importante
cantidad de organismos, dependencias y empresas pu'blicas. Con la promulgaci6n
de la nueva Ley Minera, entre otros aspectos, se reasignaron facultades a los
organismos operadores del sector. Por tal motivo, desapareci6 la Comisi6n y se
readecuaron y fortalecieron las funciones del Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero
y del Consejo de Recursos Minerales.
Al FIFOMI, le fueron transferidas, la mayor parte de las funciones que le eran
correspondientes a la COFOMI. La transferencia, ha tenido como resultado,
importantes ventajas entre las que se pueden mencionar las siguientes:
a) Una disminuci6n sustancial en el gasto corriente al reducir de 650 a 250 el
numero de empleados.



41
b) La creaci6n de un organismo eminentemente financiero, que orienta o
canaliza los recursos con base en criterios de rentabilidad, productividad y
eficiencia.
c) La interacci6n de la banca de primer piso con un organismo eminentemente
financiero, que facilita la identificacion en el tratamiento de operaciones
crediticias.
d) Permite distinguir con toda claridad las funciones inherentes al Fideicomiso
que son exclusivamente de orden financiero y de evaluaci6n y control, de las
correspondientes a la responsabilidad directa de los acreditados.
e) La posibilidad de realizar un mejor seguimiento y evaluaci6n de los
proyectos.



