Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5454b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MCO
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IaNING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 26, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
-   Thi document bus a restriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offkicd duties. ts oQtents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoerizaion



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)  1/
US$1 = Mex$ 226.85 2/
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF      -     Index of Average Cost of Funds to the Banking System
CFM      -     Comision de Fomento Hinero (Mining Development Commission)
CRM      -     Consejo de Recursos Minerales (Mineral Resources Council)
ERR      -     Economic Rate of Return
FNM      -     Fideicomiso de Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos (Trust Fund for
Mexican Non-Metallic Minerals)
FRR      -     Financial Rate of Return
GIRA     -     General Interest Rate Agreement between Mexico and the Bank
NAFINSA  -     Nacional Financiera S.A. (National Financial Corporation)
PECAM    -     Special Complementary Program for SMM Development
PIs      -     PECAM's Participating Institutions
RBPs     -     Regional Beneficiation Plants
SAP      -     Special Action Program
SEMIP    -     Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry of
Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industry)
SHCP     -     Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance)
SNMs     -     Small and Medium Scale Mining Enterprises
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditures
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Mexican peso is adjusted on a crawling peg basis.
21  Free market, as of March 31, 1985.



FOR OMCIc  USE ONLY
MmCo
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINTNG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY * .......................* ..................   (i)
I.   THE MINING-SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINIG ................    1
A. The Mining Sector ...............................................          1
Wi)  Background ..............................................    I
(ii)  Mining Legislation and Pol ies.........................    2
(iii)  Natuonal Mining Program 1984-1988.......................    2
B.  Small and Medium Scale Mining (SM)    ......          e.. ..eeeeee    3
(i)  Financing and Technical Assistance for SMMs*e..............    3
(ii)  Environmental Impact and Safety .........................    3
Ciii) Overall Potential, Viability, and Development
Constraints of SMMs....................................         4
II.  THE ORGANIZATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS ..... ........SS...S...00        4
A.  Special Complementary Program for SMH Development (PECAN) .......    5
(i)  Background   .....................cc    5
(ii)  PECAM's Organizational Structuree........................    5
B. Comision de Fomento Minero (CFH)   ..         ......        SCeecCOS 00    5
(i)  Background and Objectives......      ........e.e..c.ee...0..*e   5
(ii)  Organization, Management and Staffing ...................    5
Ciii)  Operations                       .....        6
(iv)  Financial Position and Results ..........................    8
C. Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FNM) ...........    8
(i)  Background and Objectives  ...............................      8
(ii)  Organization, Management and Staffing..................*         9
(iii)  Operations .................................... 9
(iv)  Financial Position and Resultse..e..uu.ee......e... . ..e.  9
D.  Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM)    .         .............   eee...........  10
Ui)  Background and Objectives ...............................       10
(,I)  Orgarization, Management aud Staffing ...................   10
(iii)  Financial Position and Resources........................   11
This report Is based on the findings of two missions which visited Mexico in
November 1984, and in January 1985. The missions comprised Messrs. M. Alouso,
0. Saadat, and A. Leon (from the Bank); and R. King and G. Castaneda
(Consultants). The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
Thisdocmenthasareswiceddistnibutionand maybe usedby recipitsonly intheperIoa  o c
their ofricia duti. Its contS may not otherwist be disbld witout Wodi B ank



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)             -ii-
Page No.
E. Other Institutional Aspects        .. ....... ............ ......   11
Ci)  Operating Policies  ................. ................   11
(ii)  Subproject Appraisal and Supervision .....................   11
(iii)  Technical Assistance................................ ....   12
(iv)  Procurement and Disbursement.....................   12
tv) Accounting ..o..o          ...... .................... .o...   13
(vi)  Commercial Banks' Participation ..............6...... .......   13
(vii) Action Program ..o.o.oo........................................... 13
III. THE PROJECT.o.....o.....ooooo...o...        oo.......o.................    14
A.  Experience Under the First SMM Project ........................   14
B.  The Proposed Project's Objectives and Description.....0.........   15
C. The Proposed Bank Loan....  .oo.o.o...............................   16
Ci)  Chanueling of the Resources and Repayment Arraugements..   17
(it)  Terms and Limits of Fi..ci.go .... ....................   18
(iii)  Eligibility Criteria and Operating Policies aud
Regulations............................................   18
(iv)  Onlending Interest Rates and Leasing Charges .....o .....   19
Cv) Technical Assistance...oo....          oo.o. . .o...o.....*..   19
(v.')  Procu..emento ... o............... ....o..o... o..... o ......  19
(vJii)  Disburseenet,,..,,,ooo ...,,,,,,,,,..o*oeo.,.,.,,.o.oo...     20
(viii)  Retroactive Financing. .0o ... ................... .....   20
Cix) Accounting, Auditing and Reporting-....................o  20
D.  Project Benefits and Risks...o...       ........ ............o .....   21
IV . AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION..o ......         .....o.......o..   22
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1      PECAN's Draft Operating Guidelines  ........ .0........0....   23
ANNEX 2      CFM's Draft Operating Guidelines ,, ..............................   30
ANNEX 3      FNM's Draft Operating Guidelines ....-........................   34
ANNEX 4      Technical Assistance  ..... ............. * ...   37
ANNEX 5     Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ....... o.........   39
ANNEX 6      Supporting Tables and Charts
C-1     PECAN's Organization Chart .... ...........   41
C-2     CFM's  Organization Chart           ....................  42
C-3     FNM's Organization Chart e.........0..........*.    43
C-4     CRM's Organization Chart    .......................          44
T-1     Mineral Production 1982-1983 o ............... O.......   45
T-2     Trade Summary of Major Minerals- ....................   46
Mineral Sector Exports and Imports ..................       46



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)           -iii-
ANNEX 6 (continued)
Page No.
T-3     CFM - Regional Beneflciation Plants ............       47
T-4     CFM - Balance Sheets 1981-1988 .................       48
T-5     CEM - Arrears In Loan Portfolio (December 31)...       49
T-6     CFM - Income Statements 1981-1988                      50
T-7     FNM - Second Tier Operatious....ion..s*..O*VO          51
T-8     FNM - Balance Sheets 1981-1988...........0...          52
T-9     FNM - Arrears In Loan Portfolio (December 31)...       53
T-10   FEM  - Income Statements 1981-1988.9.............       54
T-11    CRM - Balance Sheets 1981-1988.................. 1: 55
T-12    CRM - Income Statements 198119881...........*..        56
T-13    Characteristics of Subprojects Approved by the         57
Bank under Loan 1820-ME as of December 31, 1984
T-14    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements............. -  58
ANNEX 7     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File    59
MA



mYXTco
SECOND SHALL- An NI-scALE xmN    DEVELOwE   PoJEC
LOAN AND PROJECT SMZEARY
Borrower:      Nacional F inanciera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarastor:     United Mexican States
Project        Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequena y
ESecuting        Mediana Nineria (PECAM)
Agencles       Comision de Fomento Minero (CEM)
Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FNM)
Comision de Recursos Minerales (CRM)
Amount:        US$105.0 million equivalent.
Ter-s:         15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
RelLendlux     NAFINSA would pass on US$102.0 million to CFM, FNM, and CRM, who
Terms:         would, in turn, relend US$76.0 million In pesos to SMH
enterprises, through subloans with terms of up to 12 years,
including a grace period of up to three years, and floating
interest rates based on the average cost of funds to the banking
system (ACF), in accordance with the terms of the General
Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between the Government and the
Bank. CFM and FNM would onlend a part of these funds through
commercial banks, which would retain a spread of between 2.5 and
3.0 percentage points.  CFM would also lease equipment to SMMs
for up to eight years, including a grace period of one year,
with financial charges as specified in GIRA.  CFM, FNM and CRM
would repay the amounts they borrowed under the loan to PECAM,
and the Government-through NAFINSA--would repay the Bank loan,
including interest, and bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project        The proposed project has been designed to support the
DecrIption:   Covernment's sector development strategy, building and expanding
upon the accomplishments of the first Bank project in Mexico's
SMM sector, by means of a comprehensive program of technical and
financial assistance. It would finance evaluative exploration,
sine development and exploitation; strengthen the capabilities
of the major institutions supporting SMKs; and Improve
coordination within the SMM sector. Commercial bank lending to
SMMs would be encouraged under the project, which would help to
build up the second-tier credit operations of two key sector
agencies--CFM and FNM.



- (ii) -
Prolect Risk:  Although the proposed project faces no special risks, lower than
expected commercial bank participation and low mineral prices
might affect its implementation. However, iu view of FNM's
satisfactory experience with commercial banks receutly and the
adequate spreads allowed, the probability of the first risk is
low, and, given the broad range of minerals mined by 9Ms aud
the record low international metal prices, which are unlikely to
further drop sharply, the second risk is acceptable.
Estimated Cost:                                 (In US$ Millions Equivalent)
Local    Foreign      Total
Investmats by Sns:                              99.0      60.0       159.0
Xaventamt bY CFMv 7N 4d CRX. fort
Equipment Leasing                                 8.0        5.0       13.0
Regional Beneficiation Plants                    14.0       10.0       24.0
Laboratories                                      2.0        4.0        6.0
Exploration Equipment                             1.0        3.0        4.0
SUBTOTAL                                    25.0      22.0        47.0
Technicals Assistance:                            2.0        2.0        4.0
TOTIL                                      126.0      84.0       210.0
PiILanc±ng PIlan:
World Bank                                       21.0      84.0       105.0
Government                                       76.0       -          76.0
PECAN                                             9.0       -           9.0
SMKs                                             20.0       -          20.0
TOTAL                                      126.0      84.0       210.0
Estimated                               (Bank FY/US$ Millions)
Disbursements:
86     87     88     89      90     91      92
Annual              6.3   19.4   26.4   24.6   16.8    9.0    2.5
Cumulative         6.3   25.7   52.1   76.7   93.5  102.5  105.0
Rate of      All subprojects should have a minimum FRR of 12Z.  Calculation of
Return:      ERR would be required only for subprojects that involve Bank
financing in excess of US$0.5 million equivalent; in such cases, a
minimum ERR of 12% would be required.



MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE MINING SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING
A.     The Miniug Sector 1/
(i)    Background
1.01      Mining is an ancient activity in Mexico and has been at the ccre of the
nation's development throughout most of its history. Endowed with significant
mineral resources,2/ Mexico has a broad human resource base of mine workers and
well trained engineers and managers.  Traditionally, mining has played a dominant
role in the Mexican economy, supplying raw materials to local industry and earning
foreign exchange from exports. Until the late 1930s, mining was one of the most
dynamic sectors of the economy. It accounted for about 42 of GDP in the 1930s,
but this share declined to 1.3% by the late 1970s, mainly because of inadequate
domestic policies and the country's petroleum boom. The sector is, however, one
among the few that have grown in real terms lately, despite the country's severe
economic crisis: in 1982-1983, mining output grew by 0.2% and 1.3%, respectively,
while the economy as a whole contracted by 0.2% and 4.7%. Mineral production
reached about US$2.5 billion equivalent in 1983, with metallic minerals accounting
for 66% of the total (Annex 6, T-1). The sector's foreign exchange earnings
amounted to US$980.0 million, being only third in importance, after oil and
tourism, and representing a growth of 13% over the 1982 level (Annex 6, T-2).
1.02      At present, over 5,000 mines operate in the country, providing jobs for
about 210,000 persons, or roughly 1% of the labor force. Ownership and operation
of the mines are classified into three groups:
Parastatal Enterprises: consisting of over 40 medium and large
enterprises whlch produce 35-39% of Mexico's total mining output.
Parastatals were created to develop strategic minerals3/ or to make
investments considered too large for the private sector.
Large Private Enterprises:  comprising six large corporations, either
fully privately owned or with Government minority participation. They
1/   All statistics and analyses of the mining sector presented In. this report
exclude figures for petroleum and related hydrocarbons.
2/   Mexico currently occupies first place in world production of silver, fluorite
and arsenic and is among the top five producers of celestite, antimony,
bismuth, graphite, mercury, sulphur and six other minerals.
3/   Iron ore, coal, sulphur, phosphate, fluorspar and potassium are classified as
National Mining Reserves. Radioactive substances are governed by the Law of
the National Institute of Nuclear Energy.



-2-
account for about 46-49Z of mineral production and operate mainly in
precious and industrial metals.
Small and Medium Scale Mining Enterprises (S)Ms): including some 5,000
units, which range from one-family mines to companies that compare in
size and output to a division of large private enterprises. Government
participation in this segment of the sector is not significant.
(ii)    MLniuig Legislation and Policies
1.03      In response to the sector's relative decline after the 1930s, a new
Mining Law was passed in 1975. This Law has: (a) assigned responsibilities to
the various agencies; (b) regulated concessions, exploration, processing and
trading of all minerals; (c) set Mexican majority ownership as a requirement for
all mining enterprises; and (d) defined discretionary powers for the Government,
such as declaring certain zones to be state mining reserves.  The Law levied a
production tax on the ex-smelter market value of the minerals, established tax
credits for re-investment in exploration or development, and allowed import duty
exemptions of up to 75% on mining equipment.
1.04      To increase the sector's efficiency and to strengthen its competitive
edge internationally, the Government introduced two major tax changes iu 1983:
(a) the mineral production tax was eliminated and replaced by. a new
"right-to-exploit' payment on the net smelter value, which, in effect, reduced the
cost to miners;4/ and (b) the dividend tax was raised from 21X to 55%.
Furthermore, in early 1984, the import tax exemption, the last specific subsidy to
the sector, was also eliminated.  In addition, internal prices for metallic
mlnerals have been allowed to follow international price levels, while, for
non-metallic minerals, the prices are generally determined by domestic supply and
demand.
1.05      Mining concessions to SMMs do not hinder their development.  Underground
minerals belong to the state, but surface deposits belong to the landowner.
Mining concessions for exploration or exploitation are transferable, and can be
used now as collateral for loans.  Underground deposits can be claimed anywhere In
1;exico, but require specific authorization of the Ministry of Energy, Mines and
Parastatal Industries (SEKIP).  Concessions for exploration are granted for up to
three years, covering a maximum of 50,000 hectares; for mining exploitation, they
are granted for 25 years (renewable for another 25), and up to 500 hectares. The
law allows mining enterprises whose exploration concession does not exceed 20
hectares to start exploiting part of their reserves while the exploration program
is still in progress, thus helping the small miners to self-finance exploration
works.
(Iii) National Mining Program 1984-1988
1.06   To strengthen the country's mining sector, the Government issued a National
Mining Program for 1984-1988, which set the following objectives: (a) exploiting
the full potential of the sector to provide raw materials for other priority
programs in the industry, food and energy sectors; (b) spurring economic growth
through increased exports; (c) creating jobs; (d) contributing to the development
4/   1983 tax reform:  -right-to-exploit- payments of 7% for gold, silver and
sulphur; 2% for coal, iron ore and manganese; and 5% for all others.  This
represents a reduction of two percentage points In all cases.



-3-
of some of the least advanced regions; asd (e) strengthening the coordination
between the mining sector and the economy as a whole. Hlgh priority is assigned
to SNMs under this program, for which the Special Complerentary Program for SMMs
Development (PECAM) provides financial and institutional support (para. 2.02).
The 1984-1988 National Mining Program is expected to have a significant Impact
upon the mining industry's growth over the next several years.
B.        Small and Medium Scale Mining (SMM)
1.07      For operational purposes, PECAM and the Bank classify SMMs as
small or medium scale mines whose annual production values do not exceed US$3.0
million and US$15.0 million, respectively, provided, however, that their daily
production capacity is less than 200-300 tons a day for small, and 1,000-1,500
tons a day for medium sized, metallic or non-metallic mines, respectively. SNMs
operate with adequate profitability and no major subsidies. This is possible
because of special geological and economic factors, such as: (a) the high quality
and abundance of mineral deposits, and a generally temperate climate with
favorable rainfall conditions; (b). the high grade of narrow vein deposits
typically exploited by SMMs, and their flexibility to adapt to market conditions;
(c) low labor costs; and (d) the long history of small mining "culture' In the
country. SMMs are relatively labor-intensive; the average capital investment cost
per job created in most SMNs is likely to be in the US$10,000-30,000 equivalent
range, as compared to US$100,000-200,000 equivalent in large mines.
(i) Financing and Technical Assistance for SMMs
1.08      Mexico has a well developed banking system, comprising some 200
institutions, most of them publicly owned since 1982.  While large mining
enterprises are able to cover, to some extent, their financial needs, either
through credit or internal cash generation, the availability of credit to SMKs
has been limited in Mexico. Given the country's industrial and commercial growth
and the relative difficulty in assessing the viability of SMN investments, or the
related risks, the banking system has not been interested in lending to SMMs,
unless meaningful collateral is available. Even so, most commercial bank lending
has been for working capital needs, or through PECAM, since 1980. Financial
assistance to SMMs from Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM), Fideicomiso de Minerales
No Metalicos Mexicanos (FNM), and Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM), all
supported under the previous Bank loan (1820-ME) for PECAM, has alleviated the
SMMs' shortage of funds. The assistance from these institutions, however, while
satisfactory in quality, has catered only to a limited number of SMMs.
(ii) Environmental Impact and Safety
1.09      Mining enterprises operate subject to federal environmental and safety
standards. In processing ores, the beneficiatiou plants mainly use neutral
materials with no harmful content. For gold concentration, most beneficiation
operations utilize the flotation process where cyanide is used, but in such small
quantities (if at all) that it decomposes naturally in the tailings ponds and does
not cause any adverse environmental consequences.  In the small number of plants
where the cyanide process is used, the contaminated wastes are recycled after
settling out the tailings solids without cyanide discharges to the environment.
Additionally, in most benefication operations, tailings solids are reprocessed for
metal recovery. To help to ensure that contamination problems are not caused by
SMMs, PECAM will carry out an environmental impact study of such operations, under
the proposed project. SMMs generally do not present significant safety problems
because they work under favorable conditions, such as mining normally vertical and



- 4 -
narrow veins that are embedded in hard rock and can be ventilated adequately by
simple methods. Mine safety regulations are enforced by the Government. Safety
is also provided for in the contracts between the syndicates of mine workers and
mining enterprises. Union representatives frequently cooperate with the mines to
ensure careful monitoring of safety standards. Under the previous Bank-supported
mining project, PECAM would carry out a study to further improve the safety
conditions of SMMs. Its conclusions are expected to be available by mid-1986.
(iii)  Overall Potential, Viability, and Development Constraints of SMMs
1.10      An approximate total 1.8 million km2 area shows potential for mining,
but, to date, despite the country's long-standing tradition in mining, only about
15,000 km2 have been designated as mining areas. In exploiting these resources,
SMMs have an important role to play. A large number of such enterprises could
contribute to the development of Mexico's yet untapped mineral resources, provided
that international metal prices do not fall significantly below current levels,
thus ensuring adequate returns on investments.
1.11      During the past decade, the SMM sector has grown at annual average rates
of 4-5% in real terms, despite recent economic difficulties and ebbing
international metal prices.   This performance was possible because of the
se .tor's comparative advantages (para. 1.07) and reasonable returns on
investments. Investments by SKMs in 1979-1984 amounted to approximately US$100.0
million equivalent each year. With stable international prices and a realistic
exchange rate, it is expected that SMMs would maintain this level of annual
investments, especially as increasing emphasis is being placed by the Government
upon exploration, new mining development, and promotional activities through
PECAM, CRM, CFM and FNM. In line with these expectations, the ceiling for
subproject size under the proposed project would be raised, which in itself would
spur credit demand by medium sized mines.
1.12      In addition to a shortage in financing and still insufficient
exploration work, the main constraints for the development of SHMs in Mexico at
present include: (a) lack of nearby mineral concentration facilities, which
increases crude mineral costs on account of long hauling distances; (b) technical
and administrative difficulties of SlMs; and (c) some shortcomings in the
institutions providing support under PECAM, especially in areas of long-term
planning for SMM development, and technical and financial assistance. The various
components of the proposed project would address these constraints.
II. THE ORGANIZATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
2.01      The leading institution in the sector is SEMIP, which is also overall
responsible for PECAM. Other relevant institutions responsible for the
development of the sector are CFM, FNM, and CRM. They operate with a high degree
of autonomy, wifth the heads of the three organizations reportlig directly to the
Subsecretary of Parastatal Industry. The following paragraphs present the main
characteristics of PECAM and of these three institutions.



-5-
A. Special Complementary Program for SMM Development (PECAM)
(i)   Background
2.02      The Mexican Government established PECAM with Bank support (Loan
1820-ME), in 1980, within SEMIP, with the purpose of providing financial and
technical assistance to SMHs, aud coordinating and strengthening the institutions
responsible for the SMM sector development.  PECAM aims at: (a) contributing to
the exploitation of the full potential of domestic mineral resources and reversing
the sector's low growth of the 1970s; (b) activating some of the least developed
areas of the country; and (c) generating employment, especially In relatively
low-income groups. PECAK's participating institutions (PIs) are CFM, CRtM and
FNM.  The latter has initiated lending operations to SMMs through commercial
banks, and it is expected that CFM would also channel funds through the banking
system under the proposed project.
(ii) PECAR's Organizatioual Structure
2.03      PECAM is supervised by a high-level Coordinating Committee headed by the
Subsecretary of Parastatal Industry, with representatives from the Ministry of
Finance (SHCP), Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA), CFM, FNM and CRM (Annex 1).
The Committee's main responsibilities include establishing operating policies and
regulations for the program, reviewing the characteristics of the subprojects
submitted for financing and the status of the portfolio, and coordinating the
sourcing and application of funds through the PIs.  The Committee is assisted by a
Technical Secretariat comprising a small part-time working group reporting to
SEMIP's Director General of Mining and Metallurgy (Annex 6, C-1). While this
Secretariat has provided reasonable support to the program, it was agreed, in
order to cope with the expanding operations and to belp ensure appropriate project
implementation, to strengthen the Secretariat by assigning full-time staff. As a
first step, an experienced general manager has been appointed. PECAM would
maintain the preceding arrangement, including the staff required by the project.
Additionally, PECAM would streamline its subproject approval procedures (focusing
on the review of key indicators and matters), including more periodical meetings
of its Coordinating Committee, and would carry out activities to strengthen its
operating capabilities as part of the Action Program detailed in paragraph 2.32.
B.  Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM)
(i)   Background and Oblectives
2.04      CFM, the largest and oldest of the three agencies supporting SMMs, was
created in August 1934 as a decentralized public agency to help the development
and exploitation of mineral deposits, concentrating upon the metallic ones. Its
objectives are: (a) serving as a holding company for state participation in mining
or mineral-related companies and as the Government's executing agency for the
development of large scale mining projects; (b) owning and operating mines and ore
beneficiation plants; and (c) providing financial and technical assistance to
mining enterprises, primarily to SMMs.
(ii) Organization, Management and Staffing
2.05      CFM's overall policy-making body is its Board of Directors, beaded by
the Secretary of SEMIP. CFM's day-to-day operations are managed by its Director
General, who is assisted by two Sub-Directors.  To reflect a new emphasis on



-6-
financial and technical assistance activities to SMMs, CFM's new management
recently changed the institutional organization (Annex 6, C-2). Additionally, it
has streamlined its offices network by closing down three regional offices in
1984, reducing them to 19. CFM Is also considering a decentralization process,
increasing, among other things, the regional offices' authority level to approve
and formalize credits (para. 2.31).
2.06      CFM has a permanent training program for its staff, which would be
expanded and reoriented. CFM employs 2,553 persons, of whom 610 are
professionas, mainly qualified metallurgists, geologists and engineers. The
professional staff, however, needs training in the areas of management, finance
and economics to enable it to cope adequately with the intended increase in
promotion, lending, and technical assistance to SfMs. Reorientation is needed, as
well, for further upgrading the appraisal and supervision of credit operations.
The program will require the hiring of consultants to provide internal training,
jointly with CUK personnel, as well as the r.-raining of part of CFI staff in other
institutions (paras. 2.31 and 2.32).
(iii) Operations
2.07      Subsidiaries and Affiliates.S/  The Government has established mining
enterprises, in many instances, in association with the private sector, both
national and foreign. Because of social and regional economic considerations, it
has also implemented some work-out operations regarding minuig enterprises facing
financial difficulties. CFM was given the responsibility for holding the shares
of the above-mentioned enterprises, providing technical support and monitoring
their activities. In this capacity, CFM owned shares in 39 firms as of year-end
1984, of which seven were being liquidated. CFM held virtually 100% of the shares
in five companies, a majority shareholding in 11, and a minority position in the
remaining. These CFM investments amounted to about Mex$ 9,768 million (about
US$49.0 million equivalent, at cost) as of December 1984. Additionally, CFM has
advanced, on behalf of the Government, Mex$ 7,585 million (about US$38.0 million)
to capitalize those subsidiaries and affiliates. Total investments in these
firms, Including advances, nevertheless decreased in terms of their relative share
of CFM4's total assets from 55% to 53% during 1981-1984, and are expected to
decrease further to about 43% by year-end 1988.
2.08      Financial Assistance to SMMs. CFM's operations in recent years have
emphasized credit assistance to SNMs. As a result, more than 90% of Its credit
operations, in number and amount, with private sector mining companies, bave been
granted to SMHs lately. CFM has been providing assistance to SMMs through a
variety of financial operations, from short-term credit to medium- and long-term
financing (refaccionarios-),6/ as well as through equipment leasing. CFM7s
onlending interest rates varyffrom 25% for some types of short term credits to 40%
for fixed assets, exploration, and working capital loans. CFM's financial
assistance to SMMs is expected to be, on average, about US$17.0 million equivalent
per annum (under the project) duriag 1985-1988. It is expected that about one-
fourth of such lending may be through commercial banks.
5/    Companies in which CFM holds a majority equity participation are referred to
as  subsidiaries' and those with a minority participation as 'affiliates.'
6/     Reffaccionarios- may include permanent working capital under the proposed
project.



-7-
2.09      Regional Beneficiation Plants (RBP). CFM is currently operating 20 RBPs
(each with capacity ranging from 100 to 600 tons a day of ore treated) to
encourage the development of small mines and to enable them to process their
minerals in a financially viable manner. In addition, it expects to establish
about six more plants, in areas without that type of service, during 1985-l988.7/
The installation of mini-sized plants at individual small mines is not feasible,
mainly because such plants would have to be smaller than the estimated minimum
economical size, and the required investment and know-how are beyond the means of
the small miners.  RBPs have to process the ores of several small mines to be
economically viable. Currently, as in the past, there is room to establish
several additional RBPs beyond CFM's possibilities, opportunities which are open
for private sector participation. However, the private sector, traditionally, has
been reluctant to participate in these types of operations, except when the
investors can supply own mineral ore sufficient to cover a high level of the
ulant's installed capacity. Such reluctance results mainly from the lack of
control over the suppliers of mineral ore, the difficulties involved in operating
service plants in isolated areas and in providing the corresponding technical
assistance to small miners, and the existence of other investment alternatives to
likely potential investors (mostly medium and large size miners). These investors
devote their efforts to their own mining activities, concentration plants for own
mines (including, in some cases, services to SMMs as mentioned previously) and
large smelting plants. Thus, the continued development of SMNs is likely to
depend, critically, upon the ability of CFM to construct and operate regional
plants, at least in the medium run.
2.10      CFM operates its RBPs at almost break-even.  It sets the tonls for the
plants, generally, at levels sufficient to cover operation and administration
costs (including depreciation, as well as financial charges in the case of plants
financed with resources other than CFM's own funds) and revises them annually.
Overall, the arrangement contains some subsidies to the smaller mines, which are,
nevertheless, compensated for, to a large extent, by the externalities generated
by the plants (e.g., in 1983, RBPs' small total loss of US$0.17 million compared
with an estimated product value of about US$20.0 million, mostly as foreign
exchange earnings). However, in line with CFM's policy to cover investment/
capital and operating costs of RBPs, and to ensure that possible private sector
participation in RBPs is not discouraged by the tolls, CFM would (a) carry out, if
necessary with the help of consultants, a study (para. 2.32) to assess the
relative profitability of these plants as well as of the mines receiving
beneficiation services; (b) review the RBPs' accounting system; and (c) determine
whiether and how an adjustment in tolls to reflect the preceding objective
(including opportunity cost of its own financing to the plants) could, in
practice, be introduced while maintaining an adequate distribution of benefits
between the miners and the plants. The study would also focus upon the optimal
number and location of new RBPs. CFM would have the study ready, with the
corresponding recommendations and follow-up actions, prior to September 30, 1986,
and would carry out such actions after exchanging views with the Bank. In the
meantime, REPs requiring Bank financing would have to set their tolling rates at
levels ensuring a minimum annual return, based upon the average current net value
of the plantts fixed assets in operation, of no less than the equivalent of the
interest rate to be paid by small miners. Reflecting the gradual production
7/    Beneficiation/concentration involves the crushing and treatment of crude
ores. Of the total number of CFM's plants, 14 operate on a toll basis;
three purchase outright; and three treat ore only from CFM's own mines.
Annex 6, T-3, summarizes RBP's main characteristics.



buildup of the plants, such return would apply starting in the third full year of
operation of each plant, with a minimum return, during the second year, equivalent
to 70% of the interest rate applicable to small miners. Agreement on these
aspects was obtained during loan negotiations. All RBPs requiring Bank resources
would be submitted for prior Bank approval.
(iv) Financial Position and Results
2.11      CFM's financial situation is satisfactory; however, its financial
planning is still weak. As of the end of ]984, more than 90% of the institution's
assets were financed through equity (mainly from the Government's budget). CFM's
debt-to-equity ratio was 0.1], evidencing substantial potential to further
increase borrowings to finance its operations. CFM expects that such ratio would
grow to 0.30 by year-end 1988. On the assets side, CFM's subsidiaries and
affiliates were the most important component, accounting for nearly 53Z of total
assets in 1984. Loan portfolio is expected to increase from 14% of total assets
in 1984 to 23% by year-end 1988 (Annex 6, T-4). Currently, CFM's financial and
operational planning system is on a yearly basis, and only under special
circumstances is a medium term plan prepared.
2.12      CFM's loan portfolio in arrears (principal and interest) as a percentage
of the total principal outstanding declined from 35.3Z, at the end of 1981, to
18.32 by year-end 1984, mostly as a result of portfolio increases (Annex 6, T-5).
However, to reflect the situation more adequately, CFM needs to maintain records,
ameng other things, on the aging of arrears, on portfolio affected by such
arrtars, on arrears during each new fiscal period and on portfolio recovery. To
further improve the portfolio quality, and as part of the proposed project
(pRra. 2.31), CFM is preparing a portfolio administration manual which would
specify, among other things, collection procedures, reporting requirements, and
the corresponding responsibilities of the regional offices and commercial banks.
2.13      CEM changed a pattern of operating losses into one of profits in 1983
and 1984, mainly as a result of income generated by a new coal processing plant.
Productivity of CFM's loan and investment portfolio is low (about 18.1% and 1.9X,
respectively, in 1984). CFM's salaries and administrative costs, which increased
to 5.9% of average total assets in 1984 from a previous level of 4.8%, may peak at
6.5% by 1988, mainly as a result of operating costs of new laboratories and
additional promotion and technical assistance activities. However, these levels
appear satisfactory, mainly taking into account the increasing services being
provided by the institution (Annex 6, T-6).
C. Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FNM)
(i) Background and Objectives
2.14      FNM was created in November 1974, as a Government trust administercd by
NAFINSA, with the purposes of: (a) providing credit and technical assistance for
the development of non-metallic minerals; (b) promoting the establishment of
industrialization plants for such minerals; and (c) facilitating the flow of
economic benefits and the creation of employment among 'ejidatarios' (land-owning
cooperatives created under the Agrarian Law) by opening 'ejido" land for
exploration and development of non-metallic minerals. During 1984, PNM
experienced a significant reorientation of its activities, giving greater emphasis
to its credit and technical assistance functions, and moving away from its
Investment and exploration activities. It is expected that about 80% of FNM's
lending during 1985-1988 would be to finance SMMs and 20% to support the social
sector ('ejidos- and cooperatives).



- 9 -
(ii) Organization, Management and Staffiug
2.15      FNM's governing body is its Technical and Funds Disbursement Committee,
presided over by a representative of SEMIP and, in his absence, by the
representative of NAFINSA. FNM's day-to-day operations are managed by its
Director General, who is assisted by three Sub-Directors.  Currently, FM has nine
regional offices throughout the country. FNM expects that the number of its
authorized staff positions would increase from 139 to about 212 (147 professionals
and technical staff) by the end of 1985 in order to cope with increasing credit
operations. FNM's professional staff is qualified, but requires specific training
similar to that described for CFM (paras. 2.06 and 2.31). In line with the change
of focus of its activities toward credit operations, FNH has also adjusted its
organization (Annex 6, C-3), and would streamline its subproject approval
procedures (para. 2.31).
(iii) Operations
2.16      Subsidiaries. FNM had equity investment in six subsidiaries, amounting
to Hex$ 1,335.0 million (US$6.7 million equivalent), as of year-end 1984. It owns
nearly 100% of the shares in five of them and 88X in the sixth one. The decision
to sell most of the subsidiaries has been made, albeit not yet officially
announced, keeping only two profitable enterprises. FNM's monitoring of its
subsidiaries is carried out by the Enterprises Management Office at headquarters,
which concentrates its work upon technical aspects.
2.17      Financial Assistance to SMMs. Lending to small miners totaled less than
Mex$ 300.0 million p.a. during 1980-1983. With the change of policy in 1984,
lending to SMMs increased in that year to nearly Mex$ 3,300 million (about
US$19.0 million equivalent).8/ FNM expects to almost maintain its 1984 lending
level during each year in 1985-1988; about 40% of such amount is expected to be
channeled through commercial banks.  FNM makes available the following types of
credit: (a) fixed asset term-subloans ("refaccionario"); (b) mediumr-term working
capital; (c) industrial mortgages; (d) evaluative exploration subloans; and
(e) short-term financing.  FNM's annual interest rate charged on its lending
operations, by year-end 1984, ranged between 35% to the social sector and 60% to
the construction materials industry. The main source of funds for FNM's lending
operations has been Government budgetary transfers. In 1984, however, the use of
PECAM's and internally generated funds increased considerably, a trend which is
expected to continue during 1985-1988.
(iv)  Financial Position and Results
2.18      FNM's financial position Is satisfactory, having Improved substantially
during the last year. FUN's equity base is good, with equity financing about 44%
of its assets in 1984, projecting gradually to increase its financial leverage
during 1985-1988, mainly with credits from PECAM (debt/equity ratio of 2.4:1 at
the end of such period). FNM's loan portfolio in the years 1981-1983 grew, on
average, below the inflation rate; however, in 1984, it grew by 844% in nominal
terms (basically as a result of the low base), while inflation is estimated at
60%.  For the years 1985-1988, it is projected that FNM's loan portfolio will grow
at an annual average rate, in real terms, of about 20%. The balance sheets show
8/    About one-fourth of FNM's lending was through commercial banks during
1981-1984, with a high concentration of such operations during the last year
(Annex 6, T-7).



- 10 -
that PNM' s equity investment in subsidiaries would remain, in real terms, at about
the same level as in 1984. However, such investment would drop substantially if
the decision to sell most of its subsidiaries is carried out (Annex 6, T-8).
2.19      FNM's total- loan portfolio quality improved in 1984 (arrears of 3.3%-
of which about two-thirds are over three months-of principal and interest on
total portfolio) after a deterioration during 1982 and 1983 (to 13% and 17%,
respectively) compared with the situation in 1981 (7.8%). This improvement Is the
result of some recuperation in sector activity and of the loan portfolio increase
in 1984 (Annex 6, T-9). Currently, most of the principal in arrears occurred
among the working capital subloans. Since these operations are generally
guaranteed with the mineral ore extracted, the portfolio qualitv is not affected
significantly by such arrears. FNM is committed to maintain arrears within
acceptable limits through adequate subproject appraisal and supervision, and
through developing a portfolio management system, along the lines stated for CFM
(paras. 2.12 and 2.31).
2.20      FNIts financial results have improved recently (Annex 6, T-10).  It
experienced losses (about Mex$ 248.7 million) in 1983, but it estimated profits
for the first time (Hex$ 142.0 million and return on average equity of 8%) during
1984, mostly because its loan portfolio almost reached an adequate size and it
also earned royalties for the first time. FNM's salarLes and administrative costs
declited during the last year from 10.4Z of average total assets to 7.6%, and the
institution is aiming at a further decrease to 6X-7X during 1985-1988.
D. Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM)
(I)   Background and Objectives
2.21      CEM was established in December 1955, as a decentralized public
institution in charge of: (a) carrying out geological surveys, mining exploration,
and valuation of mineral resources; (b) advising the Government on matters related
to the exploratlon, exploitation and preservation of mineral resources; and
(c) coordinating its work with other public entities engaged in geological and
related scientific studies and research. To contribute to the achievement of the
1984-1988 National Mining Program's objectives, CRM's management is giving special
emphasis to investing its resources in those sites that have the highest potential
to establish mining enterprises, and to pursuing a more aggressive policy in
support of SMMs through subloans and technical assistance for evaluative
exploration work. CRK would also continue offering laboratory services to SMMs,
but the laboratories appear to be overloaded with CRM's own work and require some
expansion, part of which would be financed under the proposed project.
(ii)  Organization, Management and Staffing
2.22       CRM's executive head is its Director General, who 's reponsible to the
Board of Directors, chaired by the Secretary of SEMIP.  CRM recently redesigaed
its organizational structure to decentralize its activities (Annex 6, C-4).
CRM has a total of 2,440 employees: 899 work at the central office in Mexico
City, and 1,541 are in the field. CRM's staff are qualified for their technical
functions. However, they need substantial additional training on managerial and
financial aspects, mainly related to their function of financing evaluative
exploration subprojects of SMMs.   As part of CRM's institutional development, a
training program for its personnel is being prepared (para. 2.31).  Under its Tew
policy to increase lending for exploration activities to SMMs, and as part of the
proposed project, CRM would also prepare a loan portfolio admiristration manual,



- 11 -
in accordance with paragraph 2.12, and a subloan processing manual, including
legal requirements, responsibilities of the different areas, formalization
aspects, procurement and disbursement policies, and the levels of authority to
approve credits. In addition, it would prepare a promotion program, iucluding the
conditions under which the miners would have access to CER's laboratories.
(iii) Financial Position and Resources
2.23      CRM's equity (mainly from Government transfers) financed more than 90Z
of its assets until 1983. However, in 1984, CRM started to increase its borrowing
substantially (primarily from PECAM). CRM's term borrowing rose from 3% of total
assets in 1981 to nearly 28% in 1984, expecting to represent about 45% by 1988
(Annex 6, T-11). CRM is projecting to carry out a lending exploration program
that would average about US$1.5 million p.a. during 1985-1988. It has financed
its operating expenditures using mainly Government budgetary resources, which
represented 84.7% of its total income of Mex$ 3,838.1 million in 1984
(Annex 6, T-12).
E. Other Institutional Aspects
(i)   Operating Policies
2.24      PECAM and its PIs have reviewed their basic operating policies and
strategy under the project, which are reflected in the draft Operational
Guidelines (Annexes 1, 2 and 3). The main changes are: (a) in the case of
evaluative exploration subloans, the subborrower would have the obligation to
repay regardless of the result of the exploration, which implies that the PIs
would no longer absorb 90% of the cost in the event of unfavorable results; and
(b) CFM would encourage commercial bank lending under the proposed project, thus
operating also as a second-tier facility. Agreement on the Operational
Guidelines' content and substance was reached during loan negotiations
(para. 3.10).
(ii) Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
2.25      CFM and FNM have developed satisfactory subproject appraisal procedures
and capabilities, but improvements are still needed. Since the appraisal of the
first Bank loan, improvements have been made in a number of areas. Nevertheless,
the analysis of variables such as ore reserves and operating costs, and of the
management and cash-flow (maialy sensitivity) of the subprojects/enterprises,
particularly for the marginal producers of metallic minerals, still requires
additional upgrading.  In the case of non-metallic minerals, a more detalled
discussion of market aspects is also necessary. CFM and FNM are revising their
credit/appraisal manuals, assisted by a consulting firm. The revision, in
addition to taking the preceding aspects into consideration, would also focus upon
the simplification of the manuals; the link of the credit application formats to
the appraisal and supervision of the operations; and the commercial banks'
responsibilities on subproject appraisal, as appropriate.  Regarding CRM lending
for exploration, the appraisal should go beyond the geological Indications of the
site, making a preliminary assessment of the feas-Ibility of the potential
project. In order to appraise its subloans to SMMs adequately, CRM would also
develop, with the assistance of consultants financed under the proposed project,
an appraisal manual, which would contain the above-mentioned aspects, as well as
the corresponding trainiug program (para. 2.31).



- 12 -
2.26      The PI's supervision activities for mining subprojects need
strengthening, particularly during the subprojects' implementation phase.
Subproject supervision is carried out by the PIs' regional offIces, mainly during
the subprojects' investment period. There are no precise instructions regarding
the programing of the supervisions, the aspects to be covered, the type of report
to be produced and the followup actions recommended. As part of the proposed
project, the PIs are preparirg a supervision manual, with the assistance of
consultants, which would take into account, in addition to the above-mentioned
matters, the following: (a) commercial banks' responsibilities in subproject
supervision; (b) spectal atteution to subprojects in arrears or experiencing major
problems; and (c) periodic reports from each field office or commercial bank on
supervision and promotion activities, status of subloans, and early warning
regarding potential 'problem' subprojects (para. 2.31).
(iii) Technical Assistance
2.27      Technical assistance to SMMs is an integral part of the promotion and
development of subprojects by the PIs. Through continuous consultation and site
vislts, the staff of the regional offices, laboratories and RBPs provide advice
and training9/ on a wide range of subproject aspects, including:  identlfication
and evaluation of ore reserves, mining methods, evaluation of minerals,
beneficiation and metallurgical processes, costing, marketing and the proper
presentation of a feasibility study. In the case of FNM, it is establishing a
department to increase technical assistance to SMMs. The proposed project would
strengthen and expand the technical assistance and training activ±ties to SMMs as
a result of the more comprehensive and formalized appraisal and supervision
procedures to be developed and by the strengthening of the regional offices,
laboratory services and PI's staff capabilities.
(iv) Procurement and Disbursement
2.28      The Pls follow the procurement policies and regulations established by
law for the purchase of goods and services on owa account. CFM and FNM have a
policy to insure that adequate price and quality comparisons are made for
purchasing by SMMs. Under their draft Operating Guidelines, a minimum of
US$0.1 million equivalent has been established for requesting three price
quotations for each individual purchase or service contract. For exploration
subloans, CRM would ensure price and quality competitiveness within the
limitations placed by the nature of the works financed. CFM's disbursements of
subloans  are generally made in installments according to the subproject's needs.
In the future, to increase control, CFM would require that, whenever advisable and
possible, the disbursement be made directly to the corresponding supplier or
contractor and not to the subborrower. FNM's subloan disbursements are made in
one tranche and only through the Mexico City office.  This system increases the
risk of subloan proceeds misuse and also iacreases financing costs.  FNM would
adjust its disbursement policies, making the funds available also through its
regional offices, and in tranches according to the subprojects' needs, as
appropriate.  CKM would, as well, apply disbursement policies that would ensure
that the subloan proceeds are used properly.
9/    Training in the context of technical assistance refers to on-the-job
training acquired by SMK personnel working alongside PI staff.



- 13 -
(v)   Accounting
2.29      The PIs' accounting activities are ceutralized at their head offices.
un 1984, CRMi's Jalisco regional office started to prepare its own financial
statements, and it is expected that other CRM offices will do so in 1985. CFM's
and FNM's accounting is mostly manual and, like that of CRM, needs to be revised
and strengthened to register the institutions' operations and trausactions
accurately and in a timely manner. In this regard, as part of the proposed
project, the PIs would carry out, with the help of consultants, the revision and
modernization of their accounting and information systems (paras. 2.31 and 3.16),
partially started during 1984.
(vi)  Commercial Banks' Participation
2.30      All commercial banks would be eligible in principle for PECAM financing,
subject to complying with the following requirements: (a) observe all PECAM's
policies; (b) ensure that procurement and disbursement provisions are met;
(c) provide all reasonable information requested by PECAM, FNM, CFM and the Bank,
as appropriate; and (d) comply with FNM's or CFM's terms of financing and
repayment on each subloan, even if the final borrower does not meet the
corresponding financial obligations. Because of the limited experience of
commercial banks in term-lending to SMMs, and the still reduced number of
operations, it is expected that, at least initially, FNM and CFM would be carrying
out most of the subprojects' technical evaluation, with the commercial banks
concentrating upon the financial aspects and upon securing adequate collaterals.
Supervision would be carried out jointly by the commercial banks and FNM/CFM.
With the purpose of progressively transferring to the banks the responsibility for
the above aspects, commercial banks would take the necessary steps to train their
staff in subproject appraisal and supervision, for which the project would be
providing the corresponding assistance (para. 2.31).
(vii) Action Program
2.31      PECAM and its PIs are preparing a comprehensive Action Program to
strengthen their institutional capabilities, which would be carried out during
1985-1988. The Action Program for each of the PIs would include: (a) the revision
of the subproject appraisal manual (para. 2.25); (b) the preparation of a
subproject supervision system and manual (para. 2.26); and (c) the preparation of
an overall institutional strengthening plan, including:  (4) a medium-term
planning system focusing on institutional strategy, operational and financial
targets, financial resources, etc.; (ii) specific programs for personnel training
and promotion of operations (paras. 2.06, 2.15, and 2.22; (iii) the revision of
the subloan processing system (paras. 2.05, 2.15 and 2.22); (iv) the strengthening
and modernization of their accounting and information systems (paras. 2.29 and
3.16); and (v) a portfolio management system and manual (paras. 2.12, 2.19 and
2.22).  In the case of FNM and CFM, the Action Program involves improving their
capacity, including organizational adjustments, as appropriate, to operate also as
second-tier institutions, as well as training requirements for the commercial
banks (para. 2.30).
2.32      Regarding PECAM's Secretariat, the Action Program would include:
(a) revision of its subloan review system and preparation of the corresponding
manual (para. 2.03); (b) preparation of an operating document on project
information gathering, processing and distribution (para. 3.16); (c) design of a
program to support its PIs' technical assistance needs (para. 2.31); and
(d) determination of PECAM's staff requirements, including a description of



- 14 -
functions (para. 2.03). A list of studies required for SMK support and for policy
decisions would also be part of the Action Program (e.g., studies regarding the
environmental impact of SMMs (para. 1.09), CFM's beneficiation plants
(para. 2.10), requirements to improve quality of locally produced mining tools,
geo-statistical regional Lnformation for subproject appraisal purposes, etc.).
Agreement on the Action Program's content and activities was reached during loan
negotiations, including Its overall coordination by PECAM. As a condition for
effectiveness of the Loan, PECAM, including the PIs, would present the Actiou
Program in terms satisfactory to the Bank, approved by thelr boards or similar
bodies.  The carrying out of the Action Program would be fluanced under Part C of
the project (paras. 3.04 and 3.12).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Experience Under the First 5MM Project
3.01      PECAM's and its PIs' performance in utilizing the first Bank loan for
US$40.0 million equivalent (effective in December 1980) has been generally
satisfactory apart from the Initial delays in commitments and disbursements.
The delays were caused mainly by domestic local Interest rates prevailing at that
time, coupled with low finternational metal and mineral prices and Mexico's
economic and financial difficulties during 1982-1983. In 1983, the Bank Included
the project under Its Special Action Program, established a US$5.0 million
revolving fund, and agreed with the Government on revised onlending lterest
rates. As a result, commitments aad disbursements accelerated rapidly during 1984
so that, by December, US$31.0 million, or 78%, of the loan had been committed by
PECAM and US$19.0 million had been disbursed. As of year-end 1984, PECAM had
approved, under Loan 1820-ME, 112 investment subprojectslO/ amounting to a total
investment cost of USS 80.5 million, of which the Bank would finance about US$27.0
million. In addition, PECAM and the Bank have also approved US$3.5 million for
the purchase, by CRM, of exploration equipment to assist SMKs and US$0.7 million
to finance exploratiom activities of seven SMMs. The average size of subloans is
US$240,000, with the bulk of the subloans ranging from US$100,000 to US$500,000.
The geographic distribution of PECAM subloans shows a satisfactory diversity, with
65% of the subprojects located in the least developed regions of Mexico. The bulk
of the subprojects are for expansion purposes.  Subloans are almost evenly
dIstributed between metallic and non-metallic enterprlses, although, at appraisal,
about two-thirds of the loan amount was estimated to be for metallic subprojects.
Most of the metallic operations were for silver and lead mining, while investments
for non-metallic enterprises were very diversified, with some emphasis upon
producing raw materials for the constructiou Industry (Annex 6, T-13).
3.02      Initial data indicate that results of subprojects financed under the
previous loan are satisfactory. While most of the subprojects have been operating
for less than one year, CFM and FNM collected, during appraisal, key data for a
sample of 20 ongoing subprojects (with about two years in operation). Results of
this survey indicate that sales revenues and cests of the subprojects are largely
in line with iaitial estimates aud that most subprojects are operating at or near
the expected level of their installed capacities. The metallic subprojects in the
10/ As of year-end 1984, the Bank had approved 77 subprojects, for a total Bank
financing of US$15.0 million.  Siuce then, PECAM has submltted 39 additional
subprojects, requiring US$12.0 m:llion of loan resources, of which the Bank
has already approved 25, requiring loan resources for about US$7.0 million.
These flgures exclude 32 subprojects fully funded by PECAf.



- 15 -
sample seem to have fared somewhat better than the non-metallic investments,
particularly since the latter recorded overall cost overruns of up to 27%, with
deviations from original estimates in almost half of the subprojects.  On balance,
however, these deviations in the projected and actual costs are not likely to
affect the profitability of such subprojects too adversely since their ex ante
rates of return were over 60%, thus resulting in hLgh rates of return even after
taking the cost overruns into account. In the 77 subprojects approved by the Bank
as of year-end 1984, some 1,800 new direct jobs are expected to be created at an
average fixed investment cost per job of US$20,000, which is in line with the
average job creation costs in Mexico's SMH sector. Since most investments were
for expansion and rehabilitation of mines, the direct employment effects of the
project can be expected to be less favorable than those estimated at appraisal.
However, while there is no detailed information available on the indirect
employment effects of the subprojects, indirect employment creation should be
substantial because of forward and backward domestic linkages.
3.03      The main lessons derived so far f om the first project may be summarized
as follows: (a) the project has contrib.tLed toward inducing the Government to
establish a coordinated policy framework for the mining sector's development,
including SMMs; (b) the project financing impact at subproject level has been
positive; (c) the Government and PECAM, mainly through FNM and CFN, have succeeded
in providing term lending to SMKs; (d) FNM has evolved into a financial
Institution, and CFM is gradually becoming one, particularly in terms of Its
lending activities; and (e) the institutional upgrading process, initiated under
the first project, has been beneficial, although further strengthening and
tailor-made assistance is necessary.
B. The Proposed Project's Objectives and Description
3.04      The proposed project has been designed to support the Government's
sector development strategy, taking into account SMMs' development constraints,
and building and expanding upon the accomplishments of the first project. The
project would provide financial and technical assistance to SMM enterprises for
starting or expanding evaluative exploration, mine development and exploitation
activities, and mineral beneficiation and concentration facilities, including
rehabilitation and replacement of assets, as appropriate. It would continue to
strengthen the capabilities of the major institutions supporting SMMs and to
foster an effective coordination among them.  The project would also seek to
transform the traditional institutional arrangements for SMM financing. In this
regard, the project would encourage commercial bank lending to SMNs, operating FNM
and CFM, in such case, as second-tier institutions. Specifically, it is proposed
that the project include the following:
PART A:  Credit (to SMMs) for:
(i)    financing, through CFM and FNM, fixed assets (such as machinery
and equipment and installation costs, building construction, civil
works, etc.), and permanent working capital for subprojects invol-
ving mining exploration/development/exploitation/beneficiation
and/or concentration facilities of SMMs;
(it)   financing, through CRM, project-oriented exploration activities to
SMMs; and
(iii)  financing, through CFM and FNM, technical assistance to SMMs;



- 16 -
PART B: Credit (to the participating institutions) for:
(i)    acquisition, by CFM, of mining machinery and equipment for
purposes of leasing it, with or without option to purchase, to
SMMs;
(ii) construction or expansion, by CFM, of regional beneficiation or
concentration plants to provide access to economical facilities
for SMMs;
(iii)  acquisition, by CRM, of mineral exploration machinery and
equipment to assist SMRs in their exploration activities; and
(iv) expansion or modernization of CFM's and CRM's regional laboratory
facilities, and construction by FNM of such facilities; and
PART C:  (i)    financing, to CFM, FNM, CRM and PECAM's Technical Secretariat, of
office equipment and the consultancy costs for preparing and
carrying out an action plan for their institutional development,
and studies aimed at the development of SMMs.ll/
3.05      Bank involvement in the proposed project is important because it would
provide effective support to the Government's efforts to develop the sector, and
to achieve the objectives of the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between
the Bank and Mexico. It would be instrumental for transforming the institutional
mechanism for SMM finaucing, and strengthening the institutions responsible for
SMMs' development initiated under the first project. Bank involvement is also
important because it would support the overall Mexican recovery effort (in which
the Bank has been playing an important role), mainly by increasing production and
exports and providing required long-term foreign exchange.
C. The Proposed Bank loan
3.06      The Bank loan would assist in financing the estimated credit and
investment program of PECAM's PIs, for SMs, during 1985-1988.  Such program is
based upon expected and historical SMMs' investment and credit demand and, upon
PIs' operating capabilities and their expected investments in support services for
SNMs. The estimated project's total cost (Table 1) amounts to US$210.0 million
equivalent, which would represent about two-fifths of SMKs' expected total
investment (including support services) during the 1985-1988 period, thus leaving
a substantial margin for possible contraction in investments should further price
decreases occur.  Total average annual lending assumed under the project
represents a decrease of about 10% in real terms over the 1984 level. SMMs'
counterpart included under the project amounts to about US$20.0 million. Taking
into account the nature of mining operations, it is expected that about 25% of
SMMs' credit investment would be for rehabilitation/replacement of assets.
Therefore, incremental credit investment (excluding non-associated working capital
and rehabilitation/replacement) under the project would be about US$100.0 million.
The balance of the program would be for investments in support services to SlMS
and for technical assistance to the institutions supporting SMMs. About 53% of
the total project is expected to be implemented through CFM (of which about 75%
would be for financial assistance to SMMs); 40% through FNM; and the balance
11/  The proposed project would not finance equity investment for SNMM, mainly
because Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial, under Loan 2325-ME, covers it.



- 17 -
through CRM and PECAM's Technical Secretariat (the latter for technical
assistance). Based upon the preceding and upon the policy on Bank's cost sharing
set under the Special Action Program (SAP),12/ a loan of US$105.0 million
equivalent is proposed to help finance a second SMM project in Mexico.
Table 1: Estimated Prolect Cost and Financing Plan (1985-1988)
(In US$ million equivalent)
Local
Total Program     World Bank      Counterpart
US$       %     US$       Z      US$         z
Credit to SMMs: a/                     159.0   75.7    76.0    72.4      83.0    79.0
Investment by CFM, FNM and CRM for: b/
Equipment Leasing                       13.0
Regional Beneficiation Plants           24.0
Laboratories                             6.0
Exploration Equipment                    4.0
Subtotal        47.0   22.4    26.0    24.8       21.0    20.0
Technical Assistance for: cJ
PECAM, CFK, FMM and CRM                  4.0    1.9     3.0      2.8      1.0      1.0
.-   _ _ 
Total                210.0  100.0   105.0   100.0    105.0   100.0
Proportion of Total         0OOZ             50%               50%
a/ Includes about US$20.0 million SMM's contribution.
b/  Based upon initial estimate of costs of machinery and civil works, including
contingencies, as appropriate.
c/ Based upon the initial estimate of costs of services and equipment, including
contingencies.
3.07       In line with the project's structure, it is proposed that the loan
consist of: (a) a US$76.0 million component for Part A of the project, Including
up to US$12.0 million for permanent working capital; (b) a US$26.0 million
component for Part B, including up to US$7.0 million for leasing operations; and
(c) a US$3.0 million component for Part C. About US$55.0 million, it is expected,
would be channeled by CFM; US$42.0 million by FNM; and US$5.0 million by CRK.
Counterpart resources to the Bank loan, about US$105.0 million equivalent, would
come from the Government (about 72%) - which, in the past, has provided
counterpart funds in a timely manner -  PECAM and the PIs (about 9%) and sms
(about 19%). Agreement has been reached with the Government that it would take
all action necessary to make available the required counterpart resources from
budget sources or from the above-mentioned institutions, as appropriate.
(i)   Channeling of the Resources and Repayment Arrangements
3.08      In line with existing arrangements under the first project, it is
proposed that the borrower for the Bank loan be NAFINSA, as the Government's
financial agent. Bank resources would be transferred by NAFINSA, on behalf of the
12/ Under the SAP, the Bank can finance 50Z of a project's total cost, even if
the foreign exchange content is less.



- 18 -
Government, to PECAN's PIs, as appropriate. The loan (except for technical
assistance) would be recovered from the PIs by PECAM on terms similar to those
established in paragraph 3.09 following and at an interest rate linked to ACF (the
initial minimum rate would be 27% of ACF, currently equivalent to about a nominal
rate of 12.375% p.a. as under the first project), which would include a service
charge of one-quarter of one percentage point for PECAM's Technical Secretariat.
The net spread to the PIs would be accumulated in each institution for lending to
SMMs. The Government would repay the Bank loan, including the interest charges,
through NAFINSA, and bear the associated foreign exchange risk and a service
charge of one-quarter of one percentage point to NAFINSA. The recoveries from the
loan and counterpart resources provided by the Government would be accumulated in
a special account of PECAM as seed capital. PECAM would use such recoveries for
purposes similar to those under the proposed project, or as local counterpart, as
appropriate, reducing accordingly the burden on the Government's budget in the
future. It is recommended that the Bank loan be repaid according to a fixed
15-year amortization schedule, including three years of grace, which are the
standard terms for Mexico.
(ii)   Terms and Limits of Financing
3.09      It Is proposed, along the lines established under the first project,
that appropriate maturities be determined for each subloan based on the nature and
cash flow projections of the subproject, with a maximum limit of 12 years, includ-
iug up to three years of grace. In the case of leasing operations, the maximum
period would be eight years, Including a grace period of up to one year. The above
limits would also be applicable for operations under part B of the project. The
maximum amount of financing (including Bank and local resources) to any individual
subproject or RBP would be US$5.0 equivalent, except in cases of leasing, for
which the maximum would be US$1.0 million equivalent. These limits would be cumu-
lative, including any other outstanding amounts from previous operations under
PECAM. The recipients of CFM's, FNM's, and CRM's subloans would be required to
finance at least 15% of the subprojects' total cost with their own resources. In
special instances, however, this requirement could be waived or relaxed by PECAM,
where justified by the characteristics of a subproject and/or client enterprise,
prov4ded that the subproject's cash flow and firm's overall financial situation
are acceptable, that the enterprise has proven mineral reserves with enough value
to cover the reduction in counterpart funds, and that the subproject Is for
rehabilitation or replacement of assets or for expansion. PECAM would cover up to
100% of its parLicipating institutions' financing requests. To encourage commer-
cial banks' participation under the project, FNM or CFM would finance up to 100%
of the bauks' subloans amount to SMKs. However, commercial banks would bear the
corresponding credit risk (para. 2.30). Prior Bank approval would be required for
(a) all subloan proposals (i) requiring US$0.8 million equivalent or more of loan
proceeds and (ii) to enterprises in which CFM and FNM have controlling interest,
except when the financing is through commercial banks; and (b) regional beneficia-
tion plants. Under these procedures, it is expected that about one-fifth of the
subprojects, representing about 35-40% of loan resources, would be subject to
prlor Bank approval. In all cases, PECAM and its PIs would carry out cash-flow
analysis and calculate the subprojects' financial rate of return (FRR). For sub-
loans involving Bank financing exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent, the subpro-
jects' economic rate of return (ERR) would also be calculated.   Only subprojects
with a minimum 12% real ERR and FRR would be approved.
(iii)   Eligibility Criteria and Operating Policies and Regulations
3.10       SlM!s throughout Mexico, as defined in paragraph 1.07, would be eligible
for financing under the loan.  The maximum subloan size would apply for groups of



- 19 -
related SMMs (all enterprises controlled directly or indirectly by a single
group). RBPs would have a maximum capacity of 500 tons a day of crude mineral,
but not below 100 tons a day, the estimated minimum economical size. PECAM and
its PIs' operating policies and regulations (stated in their draft operating
guidelines), which defIne, among other things, terms and limits of financing and
eligibility criteria, have been reviewed, and would form a satisfactory basis for
PECAM's channeling of Bank funds under the proposed project (para. 2.24).13/ As
a condition for effectiveness of the loan, PECAM, CFM, and FNM should present the
Operating Guidelines, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, approved by their boards
or similar bodies.
(iv)   Onlending Interest Rates and Leasing Charges
3.11     As under the first project, subloans would be peso-denominated, bearing a
floating interest rate based upon a percentage of the current average cost of
short term borrowing to the banking system Index (ACF), in accordance with GIRA.
The ACF, which is a monthly index, generally has followed inflationary
expectations in Mexico. A recent study confirmed that it is an adequate benchmark
for setting interest rates. The Government is committed to gradually reduce
the preferential interest rate treatment traditionally accorded to SHMs, which is
justified by their contribution to the balance of payments, employment and
regional development goals, and to reduce the spread between rates charged to
various classes of borrowers. These objectives are reflected in GIRA. Initial
onlending rates proposed under the project, through the third quarter of 1985,
are, for small miners, 80% of the ACF, and for medium sized miners, 90% of the
ACF (currently equivalent to 38% and 43% nominal p.a., respectively); for lessees,
monthly lease payments would include a charge equivalent to 90% of the ACF. These
rates would be adjusted gradually to a level of about two percentage points above
ACF, in accordance with GIRA, over 1985-1987. Commercial banks operating under
the project would keep spreads of 2.5-3.0 percentage points.
(v)   Technical Assistance
3.12      The project's technical assistance component (paras. 2.31, 2.32 and
3.07) would finance cousultancy services with an estimated total cost of about
US$2.0 million equivalent, (including training costs, overhead, salaries,
international travel and subsistence).  It would also finance computers and other
equipment for PECAM's Technical Secretariat, CFM, FNM and CRM with an estimated
total cost of about US$2.0 milliorn equivalent. The Bank wGuld review in advance
any contract to be firanced with loan funds under this component. Annex 4
presents detailed estins ted information on the component.  The proposed loan would
finance up to US$3.0 million equivalent of the component's total cost.
(vi)   Procurement
3.13      Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
proposed project would follow the procedures customary for Bank IDF-type
projects. PECAM and its participating institutions would have the responsibility
for ensuring the competitiveness, in price and quality, of items procured and
thelr suitability for the purpose intended. Consultant services financed with
13/ PECAM operating guidelines would also include pollution control requirements,
namely that cyanide containing liquid effluents from metallic beneficiation
plants would not be discharged and that tailing solids would be retained in
tailing ponds.



- 20 -
loan proceeds would be open to international recruitment, and corresponding Bank
gutidelines would be applied. In line with the first project, in the-case of
purchases by PECAM and the PIs for their own account in packages of US$1.5 million
or more, or for individual items, with prices of US$0.5 million or more,
international competitive bidding according to Bank guidelines would be required.
Local suppliers would be entitled to a 15Z margin of preference or the applicable
import duties and taxes, whichever is lower. Packages estimated to be less than
these limits would be procured on the basis of the Government's procurement
procedures, which include comparative price and quality evaluation of at least
three bids. In the case of purchases by SMMs, whenever justified, items would be
procured on the basis of at least three different quotations. Since it may be
difficult, or relatively costly, to obtain quotations from several suppliers in
the case of small orders, the solicitation of three offers would be mandatory only
for single items exceeding US$0.1 million equivalent. All appraisals would
include a discussion of procurement procedures used, responses received, prices
quoted and criteria for selection of suppliers, as appropriate.
(vii) Disbursement
3.14      The final date for submission of subloan proposals to the Bank would be
June 30, 1989, and the closing date, Marcb 31, 1992 (Annex 6, T-14). This
schedule is based on the average disbursement profile for IDF projects in the LAC
region, without adjustment for the corresponding special features and retroactive
financing proposed. Disbursements of Bank funds would be made, using an
accelerated scheme, as follows: (a) 65% of disbursements under each subloan
approved or authorized, or of expenditures made under parts B and C of the
project, until such approvals and disbursements reach the equivalent of US$52.2
million of loan proceeds (one half of the loan amount); and (b) 45% onward. In an
effort to facilitate rapid project execution, a Special Account would be
established at NAFINSA and would be used to finance the Bank's share of operations
made bY PECAM. The account would be establisbed and maintained in US dollars,
.nto which the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$8.0 million. Withdrawal
applications submitted by NAFINSA would be accompanied by fuli documentation,
except for subprojects or operations under part B of the project requiring Bank
financing for less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation requesting SOE would
be maintained by NAFINSA and made available for review upon request by the Bank.
NAFINSA would be required to submit to the Bank a monthly statement of the
transactions of the Special Account. As under the first project, only
expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to the day of receipt, by the Bank,
of the corresponding financing request would be eligible for reimbursements under
the proposed loan. The extension of the Bank's normal 90-day limit under IDF
projects would be justified in view of the institutional arrangements involving
commercial banks, the PIs and PECAM.
(viii) Retroactive Financing
3.15      PECAM expects to fully commit the resources of Loan 1820-ME within the
first quarter of 19R5. Since the proposed project is now scheduled for Board
Presentation by mid-year 1985, upon PECAM's request, retroactive financing is
proposed for up to US$5.0 million equivalent, for expenditures incurred between
April 1, 1985 and the date of loan signing.
(ix) Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.16      CFH, FNM and CRM would maintain adequate records to reflect their
operations and financial situation, in accordance with sound accounting principles



- 21 -
applied consistently. CFM, in addition, would maintain individual records of the
regional beneficiation plants.  PECAM and its PIs would maintain separate project
records. PI's accounts, the project's account and the special account would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report, with scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, including opinion
regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements based upon. SOE, would be
submitted to the Bauk no later than six months after the end of each PI's f1scal
year.   The PIs  audited reports for the past three years were completed late in
the following year and were qualified. One of the more important observations
common to CFM and FNM refers to the unavailability of audited reports for their
subsidiaries and affiliates, which prevented the consolidation of their balance
sheets as required by law.14/ Other main observations were In relation to: (for
FNM) only partial writeoff of the reduction in book value of its shares in some
subsidiaries; and reserve deficiencies for subloans to two subsidiaries; and (for
CFM) lack of confirmation by its affiliates of the outstanding debt and guarantees
provided by CFM; redliction in mineral stock at mine site not written off; CFM's
shares in affiliates valued at cost; and reserve deficiencies for bad loans and
staff retirement. The auditors' observations are being acted upon, and the
Government aa.d institutions are strongly committed to remove these qualIfications
In the near future.  This is in lIne with the creation by the Government of the
Controller Ministry (which now appoints the external auditors for all Government
institutions and subsidiaries, and has initiated a close supervision and
strengthening of the institutions' internal auditing systems and units), coupled
with the revision of the accounting and information systems of the institutions
which is being initiated as part of the proposed project (paras. 2.29 and 2.31).
Moreover, given the strong capital base of the PIs, possible adjustments resulting
from the above-mentioned observations should not materially affect their financial
condition.  PECAM and its PIs would forward to the Bank periodic reports on their
financial situation, including its operations, based upon its accounting and
information systems (see also Annex 5).
D. Project Benefits and Risks
3.17      It is expected that the project's development impact would be
substantial. It would directly help some 200 SMMs, which may produce, at full
capacity, incremental mining output of about US$110.0 million equivalent per year,
of which about 40% may be generated as foreign exchange. As many as 5,000-6,000
incremental jobs would be created, mainly among low income groups. Indirect
employment impact Is also expected to be significant because of domestic
linkages.  The medIan investment cost per new job created would be on the order of
US$20,000 equivalent. Because small and medium size mines are distributed over a
wide geographical area, the project would also help to activate some of the least
developed regions of Mexico. Finally, the project would be Instrumental in
transforming traditional instltutional arrangements, by encouraging commercial
bank lending to SMMs. It would continue supporting CFMK and FNM (both as first and
as second-tIer Institutions), and CRM in developing their institutional
capabilities to promote and support efficient SMNs.
14/   The exterual audItor for these institutions was Mancera Hermanos in 1983.
According to CFM and FNM, the Controller Ministry appointed the external
auditors for their subsidiaries in late 1984 for the corresponding fiscal
period. Therefore, it is expected that the audit problem regarding
subsidiaries would be overcome in 1985.



-22-
3.18      The proposed project, as designed, does not involve any unusual risk.
However, because some uncertainties exist concerning the degree to which
commercial banks would participate under the project, and particularly under CFM
for metallic minerals lending, a more gradual transformation of the traditional
iustitutional arrangements for SXX financing may occur. As a result of the recent
experience of FNM, however, which has also been operating successfully through
commercial banks in non-metallic minerals, this risk appears small. Low mineral
prices, mainly silver, may also cause some firms to postpone investments. In view
of the broad range of minerals mined by the Mexican SMHs, the focus of the project
upoc small and medium sized miniug enterprises, and the record low international
prices (which make less probable a further sharp drop in prices), this risk seems
acceptable.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOHMENDATION
4.01      During loan negotiations, final agreement was reached:
(i)     with the Mexican Government and NAFINSA on:
(a) the loan amount and components, and on the provision of the required
counterpart resources (paras. 3.06 and 3.07); and
(b) arrangements for channeling the resources, repaymeut of the Bank
loan, and accumulation of project funds in PECAMts special account
(para. 3.08) and retroactive fi-nancing (para. 3.15).
(i)    with the Mexican Government, NAEINSA (in its own capacity and as the
trustee for FNM), CFM and CRM on:
(a) project's objectives (para. 3.04), terms and limits of financing
(paras. 2.10 and 3.09), eligible enterprises and draft operating
policies and regulations (operating guidelines) (paras. 2.24 and
3.10), eligible expenditures for financing (paras. 3.04 and 3.12),
and procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 3.13 and 3.14);
(b) onlending interest rates, spreads and yields of leasing contracts
(para. 3.11); and
(c) institutional arrangements for implementing the project (paras. 2.03
and 3.04), and Action Programs for institutional strengthening
(paras. 2.31, 2.32, and 3.12); and
(d) accounting and auditing arrangements (para. 3.16).
4.02      As a condition for effectiveness of the Loan, PECAM, CFM, FNM, and CRM,
as appropriate, should present the Operating Guidelines (para. 3.10) and the
Action Program (paras. 2.31 and 2.32), approved by their boards or similar bodies,
in terms satisfactory to the Bank.
4.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$105.0 million with a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, on
conditions as outlined in Chapter III.
April 26, 1985



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PECAM's Operating Guidelines
(Draft - Translation)
Section I
PECAH's objectives under the National Mining Program are:
(a) To provide and coordinate financial and technical assistance to
efficient SMM enterprises for the generation or expansion of
evaluative exploration, mine development and exploitation, and/or
mineral concentration facilLty projects;
(b) To strenghten the capabilities of the major institutions supporting
SMMs and to foster an effective coordination among them;
(c) To encourage commercial bank lending to SMMs;
(d) To monitor the appropriateness of the country's exploitation of its
mineral resources and the utilization of appropriate technology to
the national requirements; and
(e) To foster the establishment and development of firms specializing
i3 mining exploration.
Section II
Individuals, enterprises or groups of enterprises holdIng concessions
granted by the Government for mining exploration, extraction and processing, as
the case may be, would be eligible for financing under PECAM, provided that their
annual production value does not exceed US$15.0 million equivalent and their
extraction capacity does not exceed 1000 tons per day in the case of metallic
minerals and 1500 tons per day in the case of non-metallic minerals.
Speci'fically, PECAN provides:
Credit (to SMKs) for: 1/
Ci)   financing, through CFN4 and FNM, fixed assets (such as
machinery and equipment and installation costs, building
construction, civil works, etc.), and permanent working
capital for subprojects lnvolviAg mining
exploration/development/exploitation/benefitiation and/or
concentration facilities of SHMs;
1/        Includes rediscount operations of Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos
Mexicanos (FNM) and Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM) to "Sociedades
Nacionales de Credito.- (National Credit Instltutions.)



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(J1)  financing, through Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM),
project-oriented exploration activities to SMHs; and
(iii) financing, through CFM and FNM, technical assistance to SMMs.
Credit (to the participating institutions)2/ for:
(i)  acquisition, by CFH, of mining machinery and equipment for
purposes of leasing it, with or without option to purchase, to
SMMs;
(ii)  construction or expansion, by CFH, of regional beneficiation
plants to provide access to economical mineral concentration
facilities for SWMs;
(Iii)  acquisition, by CRM, of mineral exploration machinery and
equipment to assist SlMs ia their exploration activities; and
(iv)  expansion or aoderaization of CM' s and CRM's regional
laboratory facilities and construction by FNM of such
facilities; and
grants, for:
financing, to CFM, FNM, CEM and PECAM's Technical Secretariat,
of office equipment and the consulting costs for (a) preparing
and carrying out an action plan for their institutional
development (with emphasis upou operational and financial
planning, establishing more clearly the focus of their
activities to support SMMs, and upon policies and operating
procedures, such as accounting, portfolio management, and
subproject promotion, appraisal and supervision system),
including upgrading FiM and CPM capabilit'Les to operate also
as a second-tier mechanism, and PECAM's Secretariat's
capabilities to supervise project implementation; (b)
strengthening their regional offices and overall information
system; tc) training their staff for the above-mentioned
aspects; and (d) carrying out studies aimed at the development
of SMKs.
Section III
All requests for credits and equipment leases with options to purchase
under PECAM must be accompanied by the following information:
(a) Mining concession granted by the Government;
(b) Property title or a signed contract with the owner of the property;
(c) Draft contract with the concern that will carry out the exploration
work, as applicable;
(d) Program of exploration, as applicable;
(e) Program of mining, as applicable;
2/        CFM, FFNM and CRM



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(f) Evaluation of the economic, financial, administrative and marketing
aspects of the project, having the scope and detail of analysis as
prescribed by the corresponding manual.
Section IV
With respect to regional beneficiation plants, the following
requirements shall need to be met:
(a)  capacity of between 100 and 500 tons/day; and
(b) submission of a technical, economic, financial and management
appraisal report on the plant (including an adequate study of the
geologlcal potential and economic viability of the mines that are
to supply mineral to the plant), which shall demonstrate the
capacity to cover at least investment/capital and operating costs.
Section V
All loans granted under PECAM shall be subject to the documentation
required by the Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito, and shall be
backed by collaterals as appropriate.
Section VI
The maximum amounts to be made available under each type of operation
shall be:
for investment subprojects and regional benefitiation plants: up
to US$5.0 million equivalent; for leasing operations: up to US$1.0
million equivalent.
These limits would be cumulative, including all PECAM's sources of
funds, and any other outstandlng amounts from previous subloans under PECAM. The
subloan limits would also apply for groups of related SNMs (enterprises controlled
directly or indirectly by a single group). PECAM would finance up to 100% of its
participating institutions financing, which could also rediscount, as appropriate,
up to such percentage, the credits of "Sociedades Nacionales de Credito' to SM6s.
The recipients of subloans would be required to finance at least 15% of the
subproject's total costs with their own resources. In special instances, however,
this requirement could be waived or relaxed, on a casy-by-case basis, to take
account of the special characteristics of a subproject and/or client enterprise,
provided that the subproject cash-flow and the firm's overall financial situation
were acceptable, that the enterprise had proven mineral reserves with enough value
to cover the reduction in counterpart funds (considering reserves up to 100% of
their value in the case of proven ones, 50% of probable, and of 25% of possible
ones), and that the subproject was for replacement/rehabilitation of assets or for
expansion.
Section VII
The amortization and grace periods for any such credit or credits shall
be set, in each case, in accordance with the cash flow and other characteristics



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
of the particular project.  The maximum terms shall be:  12 years, including up to
three years of grace, except for leasing operations, which should have a maximum
of eight years, including a grace period of up to one year.
Section VIII
Subloans would be peso-denominated, bearing an interest rate based on a
percentage of the current average cost of funds to the banking system index (ACF).
In case of rediscount operations with national credit institutions, they will keep
a spread of 2.5 or 3.0 percentage points for non-priority and priority minerals,
respectively.
Section IX
Cash-flow analysis and calculation of financial rate of return would be
mandatory for all subprojects. The economic rate of return would be calculated
for subloans requiring more than US$0.5 million equivalent of external resources,
and a minimum real rate of 12% (economic and financial) would be required to
approve a subproject.
Section X
In selecting suppliers of goods and services for projects supported
through credit programs, PECAM would seek to ensure that adequate price and
quality comparisons are made. To this end, PECAM would request at least three
quotations for purchase/contract of goods and services with estimated value of
US$0.1 million equivalent or more. Regarding acquisitions for CFM, CRN and FNM in
packages of US$1.5 million or more, or for goods and civil works, individually,
with prices of US$0.5 million or more, international competitive bidding would be
required.
Section XI
PECAM's participating institutions -would disburse their subloans in
installments, according to the subprojects' needs, and, whenever possible, the
disbursement would be made directly to the supplier/contractor.
Section XII
Contracts made between PECAM's participating institutions or national
credit institutions and the final beneficiaries shall stipulate the right of
PECAM, participating institutions, and the national credit institutions to have
access, at all times, to adequate information on the progress of execution of the
project or program; to inspect or supervise the execution and operation; and to
require submission of borrowers' financial statements certified by external
auditors. They will stipulate, also, the requirement to observe all PECAM's
policies, and, as appropriate, the obligation (of Sociedades Nacionales de
Credito) to comply with the terms of financing and repayment on each subloan, even
if the final borrower does not meet the corresponding financial obligation.
Section XIII
PECAM shall be directed by a Coordinating Committee, which would consist
of one full member and one alternate from each of the following entities:



- 27 -
NAIIE 1
Page 5
Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (SEMIP)
- Subsecretariat of Mines and Energy
- Director General of Mining and Metallurgy
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP)
Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) and
CFM, FNM and CRM.
The meetings of the Coordinating Committee shall be chaired by the
Subsecretary of Mines and Energy, or, in his absence, by the Director General of
Mining and Metallurgy.
Section XIV
The Coordinating Committee shall be assisted by a Technical Secretary in
fulfilling its duties. The Director General of Mining and Metallurgy will act as
the Technical Secretary and will have a full-time staffed unit to provide support
to him and to supervise project implementation.
Section XV
The Technical Committee shall meet as often as circumstances require,
but at least once a month. The Technical Secretary shall make available the
agenda and background documentation at least five days prior to each such meeting.
Section XVI
A quorum shall exist whenever four members are present, provided one of
them is the representative of SEMIP. Matters shall be decided by a majority of
votes, and, in the case of a deadlock, the chairman shall have the casting vote.
Section XVII
An alternate may attend all meetings; however, when the Committee member
whom he replaces is also present, he shall have the right to address the Committee
but not to vote.
Section XVIII
The functions of the Coordinating Committee shall be:
(a)  to approve and, whenever necessary, modify these Operating
Regulations;
(b)  to examine and, where appropriate, approve financing and leasing
operations of small and medium scale enterprises which are
submitted for its consideration by the Technical Secretariat,
ensuring that such agreements and operations are in keeping with
the Program's objectives and guidelines;



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 6
(c) to examine and, where appropriate, approve financing for regional
beneficiation plants and technical assistance operations for the
technical secretariat and for the participating institutions, which
are submitted for its consideration by the technical Secretariat,
ensuring that they are consistent with the Program's objectives and
guidelines;
(d) to examine and, where appropriate, approve the modifications in
operational and promotional strategy concerning the Program which
may be submitted for its consideration by the executing agencies to
the Technical Secretariat; and
(e) to supervise program implementation regarding its credit and
technical assistance components.
Section XIX
The participating institutions shall submit to the Coordinating
Committee all the Information that the Committee considers necessary for
evaluating the progress and functioning of the Program.
Section XX
The functions of the Technical Secretariat shall be:
(a) to submit for consideration of the Coordinating Committee, with its
corresponding review, applications for financial assistance from
the small and medium scale mining enterprises, for regional plants
and for technical assistance to the participating institutions,
which have been authorized by the respective executing agencies, as
appropriate;
(b) to prepare and submit, in collaboration with the participating
institutions, periodic reports on the progress of the Program
including, whenever possible, an analysis of operational statistics
and project portfolio, promotional aspects, etc.;
(c)  to coordinate with the participating institutions during the
project appraisal process, as appropriate;
(d)  to inform the participating institutions, in writing, about the
eligibility of the projects submitted by the respective agencies
for consideration of the Coordinating Committee;
(e)  to keep minutes of each and every meeting of the Coordinating
Committee and obtain the signature of the Chairman; and
(f) to follow up on the programs' operations.
(g)  to coordinate the technical assistance component activities; and
(h)  to perform any other duties assigned to it by the coordinating
Committee.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
The procedures for deciding on the financing of operations involving
support for small and medium scale mining enterprises, for regional plants and for
technical assistance to the executing agencies are as follows:
(a) In the case of loans of over US$50,000 equivalent to the small and
medium scale mining enterprises, and in all cases of assistance to
the executing agencies or their subsidiaries and affiliates or
regional benefitiation plants, the specific approval of the
Coordinating Committee shaU be required.
(b)  In operations not covered by (a) above, the financing decisions
will be made by the executing agencies, which will promptly inform
the Coordinating Committee of the characteristics of such
operations; the Coordinating Committee shall, however, have the
option of reviewing selectively a representative sample of such
operations.



-30-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND 1)EDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CFM's Operating Guidelines
(Draft - Translation)
The purpose of this document is to set forth the operating guidelines
for the developmental activities of Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM) regarding
PECAK.
I.    Strategy for Development of Small and Medium Scale Mining (SMM) Development
In furtherance of the Government's policy of encouraging increased
employment, production and productivity in the mining sector, CYK, in coordination
with Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FNM) and Consejo de Recursos
Minerales (CRN), will step up the developmental activities referred to below to
help SKM realize its full potential, through:
(a) the granting of technical and financial assistance, directly or
through national credit institutions.
(b) the installation or expansion of regional beneficiation plants and
laboratories.
To this end, CFM will carry out periodical seminars and information
sessions in order to make more widely known the opportunities for technical
support, credit and other facilities available from the official mining agencies.
In addition, CFM will continue to prepare and distribute, within the sector,
brochures on the credit procedures; the appropriate channels of communication with
CRK, FII and CFM itself; and the services of the regional beneficiation plants and
laboratories to facilitate SMMs' access to these services, including those
provided by the national credit institutions.
II.   Technical Assistance to SlM Enterprises
CFM regards the decentralization of services aimed at promoting the
activities of SMM enterprises as a fundamental element of its operating policy,
and implements it through technical assistance granted by its regional offices and
laboratories.
To this end, it will continue to expand its teclmical support services
for exploration, mining and beneficiation of minerals and for legal, credit,
administrative, marketing and other aspects.
The agency will continue to furnish technical assistance with the
objective of encouraging the creation of new minJng districts.
III. Credit Policies
In appraising loan applications, CFM will analyze the feasibility of the
project, basing its study on a production plan supported by satisfactory



-31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
quantitat've evidence of ore reserves and the related cash-flow projections.
In granting the loans, CFM will require, as a minimum, the guarantees
prescribed in the Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito (General Law of
Securities and Credit Operations), including, whenever possible, the mining
concession. Goods financed through the credit should form part of the collateral.
The recipients of CFM subloans would be required to finance at least 15Z
of the subproject's total costs with their own resources. In special instances,
however, this requirement could be waived or relaxed, on a case-by-case basis, to
take account of the special characteristics of a subproject and/or client
enterprise, provided that the subproject cash-flow and the firm's overall
financial situation were acceptable, that the enterprise had proven mineral
reserves with enough value to cover the reduction in counterpart funds
(considering reserves up to 100% of their value, in the case of proven ones, 50%
of probable, and 25% of possible ones), and that the subproject was for
replacement/rehabilitation of assets or for expansion.
With respect to interest rates, CPM would apply the ones effective under
PECAM, and, regarding all other charges on credits, CFM would coordinate with FNM
to ensure uniformity.
A penalty interest will be charged on the overdue balances, in addition
to the stipulated normal interest rate.
The amortization periods of lozns made by CFM shall be consistent with
the project's life and the cash-flow projections.
In support of ore-reserve exploration through financing of contracts,
CNK will accept the studies c4rried out by CKM, by private consultants, or by the
beneficiaries,in all cases under CFN supervision.
IV.    Project Appraisal Policy
The content of the project appraisal would be differentiated according
to whether it concerns small or medium scale mining.
Project appraisals include an adequate evaluation of ore reserves
(classified into 'proven", 'probable' and "possible' categories) and an analysis
of the technical, administrative, financial, market and economic aspects of the
project.
V.   Project Supervision and Portfolio Control
CFM wilU establish modern information systems and will systematically
supervise ite loans during the period of execution and operation of the projects.
The supervision of the operations will also focus on subprojects with arrears and
with detected potential problems.
CFM will prepare periodical reports on its problem projects under
execution, as well as its proposals for correct±ve action, and required technical
assistance.
CFM will reserve the right to inspect the operations and accounts of
client enterprises, keeping the information obtained confidential at all times.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
VI.    Strategy for Regional Beneficiation Plants and Laboratories
Comparative evaluation of the geological potential of different
districts will continue to form the basis for locating the regional beneficiation
plants. These analyses are carried out by geological technical staff of CFM, with
the advisory assistance of independent professionals or of experienced personnel
of other mining agencies, as necessary.
CFM shall charge 'maguila' (tolling) fees at its plants sufficient to
cover investment/capital cost as well as operating costs, which shall be reviewed
annually with a view to adjusting the said charges. The financial records of each
regional plant and laboratory shall be maintained separately.
VII. Coordination of Laboratory Programs
In the development of laboratories, CF4 shall take into account SMMs'
neeas and CRMs' and private sector corresponding supply of services and, thereby,
ensure the fullest collabcration and efficiency in the laboratory services
provided to SHM enterprises.
VIII. Strategy for Development of Subsidiaries of CFM
CFN will continue to promote the formation of SMM enterprises, which
.-hall use, as far as possible, their own share capital in preference to equity
participations by CFM.
CYM will continue to participate in the share capital of enterprises in
order to improve their capitalization or financing, but only in cases where the
mineral to be produced, or the region in which it is located, Is of strategic
importance to the State. For this purpose, it will follow the directives given to
it by its Board of Directors and the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Parastatal
Industry.
IX.    Finamcial Policy
CFM will cover its operating costs and will make efforts to maintain the
value of its capital and diversify its resource base, gradually reducing the
Governmnt's budgetary transfers for operating costs.
X.     Procurement Policies
In selecting suppliers of goods and services for projects supported
through credit programs, CFP will seek to ensure that adequate price and quality
comparisons are made. To this end, CFN will request at least three quotations for
purchase/contract of goods and services with estimated value of US$100,000
equivalent or more.
XI.    Disbursement Policies
CFP will disburse in installments, according to the subproject' needs,
and, whenever possible, the disbursement will be made directly to the
supplier/contractor.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
XII. Financing through National Credit Institutions
CFN would encourage national credit institutions lending to SMMs through
rediscounting and co-finuncing operations. To foster such lending, CFH would
grant to national credit institutions a spread of 2.5 pecentage points and would
rediscount up to 100% of the subloans to SMMs. In the case of priority ainerals,
the spread could be raised up to 3.0 percentage points.
XIII. Eligibility Criteria. Terms of Financing and Other
As established for PECAM.



34
ANNEX 3
Page 1
TmCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FNM's Operating Guidelines
(Draft - Translation)
The purpose of this document is to set forth the operating guidelines
for the developmental activities of Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos (FNK) in
relation to PECAM.
I.   Strategy for Development of Small and Nedium Scale Mining (SMM) Development
In furtherance of the Government's policy of encouraging increased
employment, production and productivity in the mining sector, FNM, in zoordinatIon
with Comision de Fomento Hinero (CFK) and Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CEM),
ill step up the developmental actlvities referred to below to help S1M and
gejidos- realize their full potential, through:
the granting of technical and financial assistance, directly or
through national credit institutions.
To this end, FNK will carry out periodical seminars and inforsation
sessions in order to make more widely known the opportunities for technical
support, credit and other facilities available for the official muining agencies.
In addition, FNM will continue to prepare and distribute, within the sector,
brochures on the credit procedures; the appropriate channels of communication with
CRM, CFM and FNS itself; and the services of the regional beneficiation plants and
laboratories to facilitate SMK access to these services, including those provided
by the national credit institutions.
II.    Technical Assistance to SM( Enterprises
FRI regards the decentralization of services aimed at promoting the
activities of SMM enterprises as a fundamental element of its operating policy,
and implements it through technical assistance granted by its regional offices.
To this end, it will continue to expand its technical support services
for exploration, mining and beneficiation of minerals and for legal, credit,
administrative, marketing and other aspects.
The agency will continue to furnish technical assistance with the object
of encouraging the creation of new mining districts.
III.   Credit Policies
In appraising loan applications, FMM will analyze the feasibility of the
project, basing its study on a production plan supported by satisfactory



- 35 -
AUNEI 3
Page 2
quantitative evidence of ore reserves and the related cash-flow projections.
In granting the loans, F will require, as a minimum, tbe guarantees
prescribed in the Ley General de titulos y Operaciones de Credito (General Law of
Securities and Credit Operations), including, whenever possible, the mining
concession. Goods financed through the credit will form part of the collateral.
The recipients of FNM subloans would be required to finance at least 15Z
of the subproject's total costs with their own resources.  In special instances,
however, this requirement could be waived or relaxed, on a case-by-case basis, to
take account of the special characteristics of a subproject and/or client
enterprise, provided that the subproject cash-flow and the firm's overall
financial situation were acceptable, that the enterprise had proven mineral
reserves with enough value to cover the reduction in counterpart funds
(considering reserves up to 100% of their value, in the case of proven ones; 50%
of probable, and 25% of possible ones), and that the subproject was for
replacement/rehabilitation of assets or for expansion.
With respect to interest rates, FM would apply the ones established by
PECAN, and, regarding other charges on credits, FNK would coordinate with CFM to
ensure uniformity.
A penalty interest will be charged on the overdue balances, in addition
to the stipulated normal interest rate.
The amortization periods of loans made by FNM shall be consistent with
the project's life and the cash-flow projections.
In support of ore-reserve exploration through financing of contracts,
FNM will accept the studies carried out by CRX, private consultants, or by the
beneficiaries, in all cases under FNM supervision.
IV.   Project Appraisal Policy
The content of the project appraisal would be differentiated according
to whether it concerns small or medium scale mining.
Project appraisals include an adequate evaluation of ore reserves
(classified into  proven", 'probable  and "possible- categories) and an analysis
of the technical, administrative, financial, market and economic aspects of the
project.
V.    Project Supervision and Portfolio Control
FMN will establish modern information systems and will systematically
supervise its loans during the period of execution and operation of the projects.
The supervision of the operations will also focus on subprojects with arrears and
with detected potential problems.
FDN will prepare periodical reports on its problem projects under
execution, as well as its proposals for corrective action, and required technical
assistance.
FNM will reserve the right to inspect the operations and accounts of
client enterprises, keeping the information obtained confidential at all times.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Subprojects involving financing to  ejidos" will receive particular
attention in the supervision program, with a vies to providing them with the
required technical assistance to improve their operatious.
VI.    Strategy for Development of Subsidiaries of FNM
FNM will continue to promote the formation of SHK enterprises, which
shall use, as far as possible, their own share capital in preference to equity
participations by FNM.
FRM will continue to participate in the share capital of enterprises in
order to improve their capitalization or financing, but only in cases where the
mineral to be produced, or the region in which it is located, is of strategic
importance to the State. For this purpose, it will follow the directives given to
it by its Technical Cormittee and the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Parastatal
Industry.
VII. Financial Policy
FNM will cover its operating costs and will make efforts to preserve the
value of its capital and diversify its resource base.
VIII. Personnel, Recruitment and Training
FNM wlll continue its policy of developing and training qualified
professionals.  Part of this policy is to maintain and offer salaries and other
benefits adequate to attract and retain highly qualified professional staff.
FNM will step up its personnel training programs cn such aspects as
project appraisal and supervision and managerial and financial analysis.
IX.    Procurement Policies
In selecting suppliers of goods and services for projects supported
through credit programs, FNM will seek to ensure that adequate price and quality
comparisons are made. To this end, FNM will request at least three quotations for
purchases/contracts of goods and services with estimated value of US$0.1 million
equivalent or more.
X.     Financing through National Credit Institutions
FNM would continue encouraging national credit institutions lending to
SYMs through rediscounting and co-financing operations. To foster such lending,
FNK would grant to national credit institutions a spread of 2.5 pecentage points
and would rediscount up to 100% of the subloans to SMKs. In the case of priority
minerals, the spread could be raised up to 3.0 percentage points.
XI.    Eligibility Criteria, Terms of Financing and Other
As established for PECAM.



- 37 -                                 ANNE  4
MEXIGO                                 Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance 1/
Estimated Cost
Beneficiar_y                      Activity                              (U.S. Equivalent)
Subproject Appraisal and
Supervision
PECAN and PIs 2/          a Revision/preparation and imple-                    30,000
mentation of a subproject ap-
praisal system and
manual
0 Revision/preparation and imple-                    30,000
mentation of a subproject super-
vision system and manual
o Revision/preparation of                            30,000
a subproject processing
system and manual
PECAM, PIs and            ° Training seminars on the above                    360,000
Commercial Banks            aspects for about 250 executives
and professionals
PECA4 and PIs             ° External training for own staff on                 60,000
the above aspects
o Assistance in subproject appraisal                300,000
° Institutional Strengthening
PECAM and PIs            ° Design and implementation of a                      90,000
medium term planning system
o Revision/upgrading and implementa-                160,000
tion of accounting systems
a Revision/modernization and im-                    120,000
plementation of management informa-
tion systems (including financial,
operational and statistical aspects)
o Revision/upgrading and implementa-                 60,000
tion of portfolio management system
P  Revision of the operating organiza-               20,000
tion
I/    Indicative estimated detail.
21    PECAM:  Special Complementary Program for Small and Medium Scale Mining (SH)
Development
PIs:    Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM); Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos
Mexicanos (FNM); and Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM).



-  -                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNE  4
-38-          Page 2
-38-
PECAH and PIs               Training on the above aspects for               120,000
about 100 executives and profes-
sionals, as appropriate
Other
PIs                      ° Upgrading promotional and technical
assistance programs                              20,000
Sectoral Studies
CFM and SMMs             ° Review of regional beneficiation                  60,000
plants' toll and accounting system
-                    0 Environmental aspects of SMKs                     30,000
° Requiremements to improve quality of             45,000
locally produced wining tools
-  Others                                          225,000
Office Equipment
PECAM and PIs            0 Computers and other equipment                  2,000,000
° Computer programs' design and                                        240,000
implementation
Total                          4,000,000



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MCO
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND NEDIUM SCALE MINTNG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators for ProJect Implementation
A. PECAM would prepare the following minimum information:
1. Socio-economic aspects (annually):
(a)  Incremental jobs and cost per job generated
(b) Indirect employment impact
(c) Total and incremental output
(d) Direct and indirect export generated
(e) Subproject location
(f)  Type of subprojects:  expansion or new
(g) Enterprise size by production capacity and sales, and
(h) Regional beneficiation plants financed, including number of mines
attended, type mineral, use of install capacity, type of process,
total income, value of production.
2. Lending aspects (semi-annually):
Ca) Number of subprojects/operatious financed; total investment; and
credit/contributions from PECAM (with break-down for Bank,
Government counterpart and own sources), participating institutions,
commercial banks, SMMs' own funds and other sources. -
(b) Number of subprojects/operations finnmced and total investment,
classified by investment item (machinery and equipment, construction
and civil works, permanent working capital, etc.), by participating
institutions (indicating also commercial banks participating), by
size of subloan, and by type of mineral.
3. Operating aspects (semi-annually):
(a) Subprojects' status and perspectives
(b) Type of technical assistance received and its impact at subproject
level, and
(c) Experience on subloan approvals, procurements and disbursements.
4. Technical assistance (semi-annually):
Follow-up on the Action Program for institutional
strengthening concerning timely implementation of schedule. quality,
preparation and implementation problems, adjustments required, etc.
5. General:
Comments on project implementation and adjustments recommended, as
appropriate.
Note:      Information stated in 1 and 2 preceding, should be prepared with a
break-down for small and for medium mining enterprises, and for
metallic and non-metallic minerals.



- 40 -
A      5
Pas 2
B. For umitacrfg purpoxm the follog   discators qiply:
By-uid-            Byud- Fml       ByM            By vud-
1986               1987            1988           1989
1. FPuscil itp&X
(a) Loan c     *Lt:ents*              20%                   41: 7C 
(b) AMDUht oE subloEns
with loon recs
th    cmerca  b                  20x                   30Z            33%             33%
(c) Number of g    fInanced*          40                     90           140             200
2. Results of qieatiaxs:
(a) Jo3s created*                     450                  1450          2600            3800
Cb) Tncr.mntal eqrts
'in uS$ mllion
equivalet)                      3.0                   9.0           18.0           28.0
3.   Itutumal u :tes:
(a) Subzoject qprLsal and            Uner
supervisimn uscuals              applicatimn
(b) Ndiber of staff trained           100                  200            300             350
Cc) Acccmtrlg sstem reviw             5a:                  Berg
adsand                lpleted
'd) Portfolio nant
system                           50%                  Being
advamced             iiiemzted
* Cmzlatise



AN=  6
C-1
- 41 -
SErFAPRMFAISC wiEr
SWIJ SL AND MONf  SCALE !lW  [EQIr  W
WCA's Orxaxdzatkio Chart
BR Pa            Id ustry
SSW's Dizector Genral of
Mlning and *taUurgy
(*BH's TechdcaL SEaetary)
A!ya  Progran  msutn
Sxwee:  Ps 
!CPT2
Ja3      15



a
"AR  DJIEhIUL Bno=
cR1'. oiinaf*ap* Chafe
VA-lesi0410i
Smgcol~ ~ ~    ~         ~                                          _ l
ism"ry am ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ otVSmea
~5*Sr  Iau        as. 
Spu.8. f-  z  telFel1                                             4                                                                  ;N                                     jX     
$s ge I1   C R 1                                                                                                                                                                        0f
LCI2
Jaa&  AN)



X Xi
II
II         I llJgXiR
- -s-3 
9 XalDE  - £I -



ARM  6
44                                       C4
SM AE4SL ROME
SIRD SL ANID MmM SCAL MC    M  EVED        PWr
W8 OrgdzRatl Chart
Taixcl                            li"SEtV  n
&~~xecDrecor                                      FnxeDctcoD
ij T
Jlmr 15                                     Le         M
Suc:   Cam
Jmy1985



-45-                                        Jm-L
.   mxco
STAFF APWI  lDOT
SiCoND SmaL MD MDium scL lmmric  DzrYLoHUw  PJrCT
Mexico Mineral Production
1982-1983
I~~~~~ta1~~~U 340  Z72 USUZ                            1 t    3.
_ __
A.                                                  212 Lc  n so1  a E  A.!L    170J
1.                                               a31243   90 3         2332
COA tioj            6 Mit      6 95    L3J     l %w w        U GA D    .
SSlm(hp.)        I3933    1 9109    nJ    3EI   83 45 73            Z0J
2.  _ih.dII                                      45 3 Zl 10N  M 13     1505
- - - - - -
A1a_UM             41 1D      37       -3A     3 9  36   99go 6     1U1I
*   _UW             1 Z55      2 S     61D       Ul D      S  414   mo
AM3                 3 59       3 42    -35 1A(so              5    10 1 3J
Kooft                           so   -i o    0        as    se4s  U}
Cods_o                         1341  I4          134 13          .     9 a  fi
w                 Zs sX1    ZSb a32  -J uz  Moa Ms  31   W           N i
* bs At               m 9      1       N 3A    17 31 2de55    470
im               52 3 31Z    3X13    -1 A      551  1U 13 a          Ai
mo_              1in3 X      13D I  -PA        I AM 35   2 3U 43      3
Mae"                 295 95     3         21   -   14  s1      3150   5
M1,.s               5      l9 D   S N6 *   Vw  I  15     6 law        FAl
Lmd                145       16 17405   14J    3   M      7" 61c    ulS
-  ,1n                3          34   172         in0a      3930  1.i
191       186  -41         96 g      tU 45    03
zie              Z3,1g      29  g     u    8J    a 5U 53  Z s  177J3
CLW               2* on      213_77    -14.2     13 435  V2 24       53
Suda,ivei~~Z 2UmlCbAIEl  8I 1N    -435  D070    27713             0
Sl d   1A am3o) 99 40 RIl  J6 W& Mt   45S    2 t73 10D  V 71 tOD    ZtJ
1 813 47   1 10 G 3    -11A    6 23 33  I23 1 GM   10J
awLt               33 753    350313    10i       753197   1   61 3   13
3meoKw            15918       71 140    -7.5      0 25     3B* "    250J
COmin1ds          316a       34A 43    45.       10S50    43616   IDA
NStan           4 60 SE I  35 27S Mu   -13J    7 511 7   15 3J1 03   10.
Kndia             17230    11O          4 .A      n su 72  1377   1175.1
awl              7 618 VI  8 39 47    13.1    7  31 105  I? n7      1 1
lmtim              31 b76    31 S      I BA      a 90      30  0   313.0
oLACNAW            S 31      43 %7   -30         tO 9      28 D1 ["a
UOIlm             3335 as      1St  -193          a 196     1710   -19i
fel1w             11539      U   a1s I7VA 2141             49 763   1024
F hav,1.          6J 35      5S 977  -UII      3 2   916   61 M 4    NJ
fl e              615300 MO   55M      33   D 919  515 41 9 JJ
Go                 3 174      41 3I    223       2U        35 1 910  IL2
Iwwze              3432       23 W     3!1       31 VG      a  31    87.
HUNIS             119759    143 0      24.5     2935 U     63 333   110
1N                   510       1 SO   WSJ         143        53 c    37
per3l              143        41 377    27A       Ls 7a     3319 1o6J
Sat              5 Sl 137   5    703    26 t.  7 762 41  14 M   915    OJ
Su.W              831 V      93 051    12.1     1A =       1   333    122
alC                12U  0     is 02    D3         3 81       9      1t 7 in
AbLw'EUwib           2445     4174   -22         73 477   1a319   973
Ve14gapu             I22          9    36 DJ                   37    403
'bluagm            13 S9     3 78   -ID0.        927 m           6U5  197A
GYP"             2062484   2393MS   4"A          667812   119175    91.J
a/ Itcludes Imported minerals.
b/  Includes glass sand, quarcz and milicates.
Source: Direcc;in General de Ninas. S.E..I.P.  d lbnk (ID)
RepOrt
LcPI2
Januay 1985



-46-                                     ANNEX 6
T-2
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mexico - Trade Summary of Major Minerals a/
('o0-00tonnes unless otherwine statedl)--
1983
1982                           1983               X of
A. &tallic              uti          Exot----t&ci                Vrt         ws    xot
Cbpper              239.1      174.9     26.2      206.1      119.9   13.05      19.4
lad                 145.8       62.1      1.1      167.4       79.1    0.3        3.6
c                   UL231.9    196.3      0.2      257.4      215.4    0.1       11.4
S13lmr b/         1,550.2    1,190.7       -    1,910.8    1,3B6.3      -        57.9
an.ganese           183.1      169.9     59.3      133.0      142.5    0.3        N/A
B.  1n-itcs
pho,j*te rodk      635.0        34.0  1,035.0      785.0       21.0  1,115-0       -
Sulaphr           1,815.0      900.0      0.9   1,602.0       998.0     0.5      45.4
I Plgures eqess metal cocment for netallUcs.
b/ 1OOOkg._
MexicO - Mineral Sector Exports and Imports
(1982-1983 ('000 US Dollars)
Type of NYnral  d         Exqort        2        TILYS        I      N*t Epozts       2
E=nft  Stop16    198                 2   1983 1in                    1982   1963 1963   ma/
1~m1at                 699.8  754.4    7.8   129.8  69.2  -46.7   570.0 6852    20.2
Or  + cooc.            328.9   1.4  -32.7    21.2  15.7  -25.9   307.7  2D5.7
proa=    370.9  533.0   43.7   1.08.6  53.5  -50.7   262.3 479.5    82.8
UNcHOWWLUc wm1rals   172.7 225.4   30.5   140.3  67.8  -51.7    32.4  157.6   3E6.4
Or + am         6M..8.                MY1 X;i   6 --39.6 66J i8.9E  153.2
IEtal1l-qic1 - roduot    37.9  15.4  -59.4    72.2  26.7  -63.0   -34.3 -11.3
mmVL               872.5 979.8   12.3   270.1  137.0  -49.3   602.4 842.8    39.9
a/ Nfwtuml '=mm  'nomc.1 ly if not in w"P   ' Pmttb  in both yeiw.
Sourte:  Bank (IND) Report
LCPI2
January 1985



MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMHLL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CG1 - Regional Deneficiatlon Plants
Number of
Regional Plants                                                Capacity      Number of       Hines       Number of
(Location and State)               Start-up       Minerals    Tons/Day        Employees    Supplying    Employees
Date                     Ore Hilled   at Plant           Ore         at Nine
In Operation
1.  Barones (Zacatecas, aac.)               1963      Av-Ag-Pb-Zn-Cn    350              65            34           866
2.  Parral (Parral, Chih.)                   1967     Av-Ag-Pb-Zn         400           107           105          18I8
3.  El late (Zacatecas, Zac.)                1968     Pb-Zn-Av-Ag         600           364             1           __
4.  Parilla (Nombre de Dios, Dur.)           1969     Ag-Pb-Zn            140            58            28            93
5.  Cyanacevi (Cuanacevi, Dur.)              1979     Av-Ag               520           166            40           404
6.  Nuevo Mercurlo (Mazapil, Zac.)           1974     Gypsum              160            45              1            10
7.  Cuauhtemoc (Cnauhtemoc, Chlh.)           1977     Ag-Pb               100            34            13           160
S.  El Coco (Concordia, Sin.)                1979     Av-Ag               100            40             14           65
9.  La Minita (San Ignacio, Sin.)            1979     Av-Ag-Pb-Cu         140            40             17           73
10.  Santa Rita (Nieves, Zac.)                1980     Ag-Pb-Sb-Zn         100            80             6            45
11.  Pinzan lorado (Coyuca de Catalan,
Crd.)               1980     Av-Ag-Cu            120           100             6            50
12.  Hermosillo (Hermosillo, Son.)            1980     Av-Ag               ISO            32             is           98           p
13. Ocampo (Ocampo, Chih.)                   1980      Av-Ag               100            25             6            61I
14.  San Pernabe (San Bernabe, Dur.)          1983     Av-Ag-Cu-Zn         100            22             6            50
15.  Choix (Choix, Sin.)                      1983     Av-Ag-Pb-Zr         150            35             8            85
16.  Villa Matamoros (V. Hataoros, Chih) 1983          Av-AS-Pb-Zn         ISO            39             10          120
17.  Julimi  (Julia., Chih.)    .             1984     Gypsum              250            65             6            50
18.  Santa Ines (Ocotlan, Oax.)               1984     Av-Ag-Pb-In         ISO            27              5           40
19.  Badiraguato (Badiraguato. Sin.)         1984      Av-Ag-Cu            ISO            23            10            96
20.  Talpa (Talpa de Allende, Jal.)           1984     Av-Ag               100            37              1           60
Sub-Total ta2
Prolected
22.  Temoris (Temoris, Chih.)                 1986     Av-Ag               150            40
23.  Magdalena (Hagdalena, Snn.)              1986     Av-Ag               250            68
24  ..Aappneta (Acaponeta, Nay.).             1987_    Av-Ag-Pb-Zn         150            40
25.  Guachinango (Cuachinango, Jal.)          1987      Av-Ag-Pb-Zn        300             99
26.  Tahuehueeo (Tahuehueto, Dur.)            1987      Av-Ag-Pb-Zn         150            40
27.  El ARuila (Tonichi, Son.)                1987      Av                 250            70
Sub-Total                                                            1250           357



49 -                            AM~~~~~~LIU 6
- :
La  -MUL               
r            P r o i e  c t  d
'~~~~~i    ' q   l9g.                   Lm         2       190,^ 196         an  1-
ASE
a||. E"m  Nh1d                t     231.3    13.0    373.8    769.6  1.09.0  1.31.9  1,75.9    2,193.7
AcommM k                          1,11.L8 J 1,66.1  2,50  2,2110  2,722.1  3,619.7  4,596.9    5.7462
1naa                                4S6.3    60D7  1.460.9  2A&:0   4i890e   _SII.6  7 4W03    8.016.5
Su t                            1,    44 .3                  S,   5,65.9  D.Z L                  lxmt
Io~ (not)
Pk±u_ sam                        87.0  1,115.3  2,W.5  4,39.1  7,532l  11,615.1 16,m1    22,651.1
StaldIagm ad *fillas              174.8    41.8    766.9    633.0    673.0   71.0    753O          793.0
_ Im _MOCU fa Ur Di=
PZVW   !dW                        -     (70Q(1.9)         wegg0  (U9f) -w   (29.6)  (JL.)    (3962
s,rac a.6  -4    i2753.1   8,5.W7 lC3-   , d  23,07.9
_wiqmt In SeddIais   d
3,J9.5  5,128.4  5.9083  9,760                  -              -
MX  Capita 99saziidmi           1 422.4  151.4  3.85.0  7,9.0    --
s*ral                          ,375.1.9  6,66.8  -9, 1.3i  i=    N,7.MO TJ 7,1u3 43s  0  43,166.0
hmd Amemt (r)                    1.163.7  1,828.9  2,570.4  4,1420  6,660.0 10.39.0  13,573.0  14,30.0
-t_hAMt                            393.3    577.0    627V5  1014.1   1 r.5               2.31.7   2 975.8
1ulL   ;                    9,.9  1 7   2                       46,2.8 363..   8L
WAMI1M AD1flT
a1t ftom SqPLUa                     56.1     74.8    480,6    572.8      -        -         -         -
t   QZM   UaMIin                    M3.8    20.7    744.3  1                      -2   _             -
Sb-ttal                            21       335.5  1,224.9   1,700.0  1,875.2  2,49.0   3.167.4   3,959.2
Sh    . TIM                      79.2     35.6     15.        4.2      -        -        -        -
lg  1                          256.5    529.2    649.7  1.40.0  5,20  10,              15 S79.6 19.9J
S_b-tntaL                       W7        WS    665.2  1,0.2  5.526.0  10,3&17  15,579.6  19,3E .7
Ot rlml- 4-                         7.6       .0    47.6    171.0       -                 -
Tocalte uiaL2ti                                           3,U S5.   7,9.2   U           W9
quLtr                           99,110.7 12,326b4 18,2$S.6 29,660.6 38.92.6  50,172.5  62.0.9 76.2
'IULr  lr LZAfnl. U D E=       9,735.9 13,244.7 23,183.3 32,935.8 46,325.8  63,009.2  81,251.9 100,02Ll
t-Om/wDo                          3.19     2.83     4.54      3.4B     1.49      1.19    113      1.21
ot al Eue/fiFqztwy                0.07     0.07      0.11     0.11     0.19      0.26     0.30     0.3D
Lmg-mm Ybfe/!td                   0.C3     0.01     0.01      0.C8     0.14      0.21     0.2      0.25
A 1s  -t  Incs       Totalm AAm    51.4     36.0    52L4      62L6     31.2    239        24.6    22.7
hroc,. Imcc    In Nbt [on Prbc¢. 47.1      52.5      88.7     65.1     69.1      50.3     42.9     33.6
1    -e    p linus I Equri 1Net. 50.8       24.3    46.5      77.4    24.3       26.0     26.1     26.0
P NW  kim  In Ktty                47.0     3.3       48.0     62.6     31.2      2L9      246      22.7
ftavIsSina - a Z of Gatuik
Portfolio                         7.9      6.4       6.2      3.3      2.5       2.2      L9       1.8
/ 1981-1983 bahd upon ozternal   gtiur's repor=, excludIng PZCMI's gpelal accomnt
admIstered by CR.
Source: Cdi
January 1985



49                                         ANNEX 6
T-5
SMrFF APEML 99
9 SL AD 1IHO  SrAIBE1M    rEVE G  
CEM - Azreazs in LoinPortfolio (ed)er 31)
(in Not$ =111m)
Prircipal xnd Interest Princpal d Iterest In Arreas
*s1lf                          as a ;[ of
Xyars                                  (in $ =Lllt(=)       (in $ uslI   ut)     g
_8                                          778.2              173.0        22.2
191                                       1,035.3              365.1        35.3
198Z
Fixd Em T    a,                       1,055.5              233.7         22.1
wILCIg capita T     b/                  305.1               145.8        47.8
X*a].                  1,360.6              379.5         27.9
L983
Fie Term IO  aY                       2,853.0              310.7         10.9
Widndg Cpital        b/                 570.2              158.4         27.8
Total                  3,423.2              469.1         13.7
1984
Fixed  4m  T    ay                    4,367.2              632.3         14.5
Wodrgd Capital I.T   b/               1,147.8              378.1         32.9
Total.                 5,515.0             1,010.4        18.3
al Direct Credit, PeF-ioasr1,  Avo, Prendario,- E91oration, ad, leadsi
1,1  ktpos" axd         -as.
&ure CEM
Jmm=7 L985



_=                                                         -50 -
T-6
-FH    (    -n_ uJJJ
- P r o i c t e d
m                isa                                 sv      is6-
at NIVA=L GXC_ AM      d -L   13.6      M.3  3,LW.4 ",450.4  8,5120 U,3.O  14,38.  179.0
SEIM  Tm                            14.0    115.6    35L4    69.L7  1,470.O  2,20.O   3.749.0  4,896O
limt Cal Io                          74.2   123.4   237.8    =8  1,1   1,81L6  2,58.0   3,4M.3
i qt NW                             155.7     n.o      66.     16s,    93.9    221M.9   '0.       6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                             1a_ 5Ls 6§. 3 J,t 112 -5. W. S  2X,L U- 26. 
1g1.   e         _      L1in 1 CU   179.9   323.2  2.377.2  3,63.4  5,743.0  7.63.0  9,701.0 12,2LO
s5zwm  com                          174.6   201.4    387.7    664.7  1,390.0  2,096.0  3,600.0  4,708.
ad   r   s       1           06.7   23.7    464.8  1,S41   2,481.6  3,424.8  4,6659  5,930.0
-AW"f        h    -                    .1992    190.5   33Z.1
qXr 4_                         83.4    668    10.7   174.2   1M.6    318.9   470    65
OPENUM~~~~~~~i I=                  ..6 3.M 6.MU6  9i, 13.w =  18.; 23. =
pc_u  1_i=                      (31L3   (51.1)   ION.    94.   18 2.l.8  2M66  3,5U.6
MAdm_                               210.6    1L8.    64B4    322.0   391.0    2L0    660.0    82.0
-_ustamt TCMO&                       35.0 13.1    621.0    6-                     - -              -
PA1aCLm                             M6.4    M5.2    69.2  1,.8   1,IU.0  l.571.0  1.995.0  2,494.0
-h  F1oal Tm                         79.0   3Z.6    360.7   323.0    38,        517.1.  493.6    485.9
Fiz6-dalpI                         (4 6)    M.0)   (862)   (95.5)  (MM   (9tl.8) (1.0.9 (2 163.7)
Tm                              175W    W       2.M9  Z.          31i 4  3.I37I       r.237.3 5.IMS
1m (d. Co_ ==
_ 4 cf I -    teL Am (J)             .6    14.3    31.9    33.9    33.4    33.3    33.6    33.9
Suali ad Ad.           a Z af A       4.2     4.1      4.8      5.9      6.3      6.3      6.4      6.5
Mvidod  S Z ct B_dty Mm~~     3.9      1.8     4,9      L.9      1.8      1.9      L9       1.9
Tm fJ , (whAwt 1m_  fm)
- 23kA-TM            edoLj          21.5    14.6    13.1    22.4    19.8    19.9    2D.0    19.9
beT m a as aZf v                      L9      6.0    14.4    14.4        8.9      83       7.5      7.4
Plr--4Lm        f CTA                 0.5     0.7      0.6      0.4      1.1      2.2      2.9      3.1
a/     l98g1-1983  IJD mI externl auxitor's report, e,clui  PWMB  Specia
a=mt ailiuistered by M.
b1     ?be twi Nam Posita eoal p*odudz  plant started full prodw±i'm.
Source: CR4
LCEU
IL9l2



Exico
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FNM - Second Tier Operatlons
(in MexS mililon)
1980                1981                1982                  1985                1984             TOTAL
Flnancial Intermedlary          Nunber    Ameunt    Number    Ameunt    Number    Amount    Number    Amount   Number    Amount  Nunwer    Amount
BANCOMER                          1         1.9        3        10.6       2          7.2       3          20.0       2        103.4    11      143.1
Banco Internaclonal               -         -          -         -         4         15.9       -           -         2          791     6       23.0
Banamax                           I         3.1        1         3.0       2          4.0       1           6.0       1         34.5     6       50.6
Banpals                           -         -          -         -         -          -         1           2.5       1          7.0     2        9.5
Banpeco                           -         -          -         -         -          -         -           -         2        161.8     2       161.8
Banco BCH                         -         -          2        10.5       -                                          -          -       2        10.5
Banca Creml                       -         -          -         -         I          6.0       -           -         1        300.0     2       306.0         tn
Multibanco Comermex               1         5.3        -         -         -          -         -           -         I        118.6     2       123.9
Banobras                          -         -          -         -         -          -         -           -         1        226.0     1      226.0
Banoro                            -         -          1         1.2       -          -         -           -                    -       1         1.2
Banco del Atiantico               -                    -         -         1          6.0       -           -         -          -       1        6.0
Banco Ganadero                    -         -          1         3.0       -          -         -           -         -          -       I         3.0
Benco Nexicano Somex              -         -          -         -         -          -         1          13.3       -          -       I        13.3
Banca  Sertin                     -         -          -        -          -         -          -          -          1        130,0     1      130.0
Total                           3        10.3        8       28.3       10        39.1        6         41.8       12     1,088.4    39    1,207.9
Source:  FNMC
LJP12
January 1985



- 52 -
ANNME 6
T-8
SUEF    N       rC
m     s.i  ANl)D 1Mn SCAlE HMDW    MM  P r
FM - Belm  bu 191 - 1988
(in- owtru± lhx: uWio
A u d L t e d    P                P         r  o  i  e  c   t  e  d
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1967    198B
rsh a w                             2.9    15.2       7.0     3.5      3.2      2.9      3.7      8.5
NegDtlnble Inmuts                  48.1      5.8    11.0   167.0       5.3      3.1      3.6    10.6
Aas  Recevabae                     14.2    13.0    27.3   102.5    18.4    24.5    31.0    38.9
Sub-total                        65.2    34.0    45.3    273.0    26.9    30.5    38.3    58.0
s9,t-tem                           -        69.8    121.8   350.5   464.0  1,014.0  1,207.0  1,465.0
Imlgu1en                          151.4   179.4   110.0  2,560.1  6.151.0 10,409.0 14,609.0 18,903.0
Shvrt-vezm tD Ssidiaries           12.5    56.1    73.0    15.0    11.5    39.6    56.2    56.2
log-tezm tOD Ss4sidaxrL            90.6    52.1    43.5   295.0   261.0   221.4    155.2   109.0
Less rmEsers for Bad Dbits       (5.4)    (9.4)    (9.4)   (18.8)   (66.0)  (114.0)  (158.0)  (203.0)
Sub-totali                      249.1    348.0   338.9  3,201.8  6,821.5 11,570.0 15,879.4 20,330.2
Equity nmmst  In Suboldiarim (not) 696.5   877.2   907.9  1,335.0  1,952.3  2,596.6  3,297.6  4,121.8
Find Assets (net)                    50.7    38.9    31.4    22.7    23.3    27.5    30.6    32.9
Projects In atbInpss                 88.0   103.2    151.5      9.1    69.1    91.9    116.7   145.9
Otlur Aset                            0.7     1.2      2.5      4.9    20.0    25.0    30.0    35.0
lTJL ASE9S                     1,150.2  1,402.5  1,477.5  4,846.5  8,913.1 14,341.5 19,392.6 24,723.8
. rrMLs ANDBW
sDrt-term                           -       28.4    41.4    153.0   140.0   304.0   362.0   440.0
Logr-teun                         109.4   131.8    96.6  2,479.4  5,536.0  9,368.0 13,148.0 17,013.0
Sub-tDtal                       109.4   160.2   138.0  2,632.4  5,676.0  9,672.0 13,510.0 17,453.0
Other Liabilities                    15.0     7.4    89.7    87.6    57.6         9.4    12.0    15.0
Total iIabJlirtes               124.4   167.6   227.7  2,720.0  5,733.6  9,681.4 13,522.0 17,468.0
qupsty                            1,025.8  1,M4.9  1,249.8  2,126.5  3,179.5  4.660.1  5,870.6  7,255.8
XJYAL LTAaCLIAIES A  EAND SW   1,150.2  1,402.5  1,477.5  4,866.5  8,913,1 14,341.5 19,392.6 24,723.8
MME    IDECAMPS
T- I.o/BOrroidr4                   2.33     2.23     2.52     1.22    1.21     1.21     1.19     1.18
1ft/Fq*dty           -             0.12     0.14    0.18     1.28     1.80     2.08     2.30     2.41
Ia1-term DIq                       0.11     0.11     0.08     1.17    1.74     2.01     2.24     2.34
PeromtaWge  lt.seIn Total Assets   74.1    21.9      5.4    228.0    83.9    60.9    35.2    27.5
Plsercen   Incremse in NFC 1a3 Pbotf. 74.2    39.7    - 2.6    844.8   113.1    69.6    37.3    28L0
Lra0    I1asIa Equity Invest.  89.8    25.9          3.5    47.0    46.2    33.0    27.0    25.0
Fer a Inease in Equity            58.9    20.4       1.2    70.2    49.5    46.6    26.0    23.6
Pmisions as a Z ofDrtstdirng PBrtf. 2.1      2.6     2.7      0.6      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Provimsins as a Z oi Pricldsl in
Arreazs                           47.0    32.8    33.1    75.8         -        -        -        -
Smim: RF
11985



SgF AMW1. P&RT                     -
i2nh) AwL  w lWMI RAR 110(  UWHT mier
;R- kac. In top, PSrtfnIln IDruftr 31)
(in No* all lion)
prindll                             MRIPAL IN PNW                                                        INDMV. IN AWAR                                            ITAITM.
NAtr d        cnastantiri    1u. th(n 3 snxth      Ova 3   t1thi               T1               lits thnm 3 I thwig     Or I ninths               Totil            INIWtRI4 W1tY   tN WNEM
Lad Of Year                  Cadlta   (in S1llJn)  (in Oifl n)    Sa    (in 3Ililan)   2na  (In 8w I im)    X  7  (In Siim)   Sn/ (InIlilfm)    2     (in Wlinm    2d  (In  liltn)    I a/
iWl Amt Imu 1                              1h6.1          0.2          (1.1        7.5        4.5         7.7         4.U
lbsir Capitall 1mu             a            75           -            -            i.n        5.0         3.i         5.0 
Total                         62         242.0          0.2          10.1        lI.l       4.7        11.5         A.R        0.3           (M.     7.11         2.9      7.5         3.0      IRA.           7.8
1982
970  An  a t    1               53          27D 7         1.4           0.h         4.5       2.0         5.S         2.6        -                                 -        -----_
Wre Cilital loe                 33          99.6          0.4          n.4   7 2.4           22.5        22.,        22.9       -                                                       -         -
Total                        86          3at.3          1.8           L.6        2h.9       8.4        a.i          9.01        l.h          t. S    11.4         3.5      11.0        4.0      41,7          1.n 
1913                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (
Wad Amts Lam                     57          218.1         2.2           1.10        9.4        4.1       1 1.6        5.3        -            -       -            _        _           _
WoMa  C0ital L1m                34          1.2           n.3           n.4       Ih.5       19.6        16.1         1.30      -                                              - -  -  -  -       -             -
Total                        91          312.3          2.S          UIL         25.9       8.6 h        ,4         9.4        2.3           0.8   21.1           7.0     21.6         7.8      52.0          17.2
194 (Octobr 3I)
ri;;d Awes L-m                   RI        1,440.9         1,.           0.1 I        .A       0.6        10.5         n.7         3.7        0.1       9.6        0.7       11.1         0.9      21,1           1.7
11c IlICptl La                 44          17hl bR        8.1    1                 5,S   3,1             14,1   H      .1   S,1   l           .n       9,2        5,1       I            R145, 2R.6            Ih,l
Total                        125       1,617.2         KI.6          0.7         14.2       n.9        24.8         1.5        9.0         0.6      18.8        1.2       27.$         Id      la.6            1.1
Aa mrar t*       of Irn utolflIo  a*.tA,iI,.
Snm:t FMl
L112
Amory 196



A.EX 6
-54-                            T-10
SX  SbL AND MMSAE  iin   aN:  RU
-i eani !b4 uilitmi)
A u d  i t e d    E              P  r  o  i  e  c  t  e  d
1981    1982    1983    1984-  1985    1986    1987    19B8
&,yakfes                         -        -        -       147.0   329.0   437.6   555.0   695.0
In1eret ad  lomsi                 32.0    76.0   106.9   340.0  1,603.7  2,574.0  3,746.0  4,888.0
Interest anzkItebl SecuritLes     13.0    19.3    10.7    27.0    11.0    14.6    18.6    23.2
Otber Iem                         _4.8      2.5      1.7     7.0      -       -        -        -
7btnL I==me                     49.8    97.8   119.3   521.0  1,943.7  3,026.2  4,319.6  5,606.2
ERE;
Picnai.  EThp.es                   2.7    17.8    19.2    83.0   752.0  1,379.0  2,(58.0  2,715.0
Salres and Peal Eiqpeu            59.0    81.4   108.9   177.0   332.0   524.5   797.2  1,195.8
Otber M      enistrati'e Ekpeues  37.7    32.0    41.0    62.0   122.0   192.7   292.9   439.4
Dpmciati.m                        11.5      9.9      9.8    10.0      9.8    13.0    16.5    20.6
(ictirgi Ebqe&itazes              -        16.5    49.8    46.8    50.0    66.5    84.5   105.6
Sh   FaI-1n Va1he                         - _39.3    -              -        -       -        -
The8al  mee                     110.9   157.6   368.0   378.8  1,275.6  2,175.7  3,249,1  4,476.4
t esult                        (61.1)   (59.8)  (248.7)   142.2   668.1   850.5  1,070.5  1,129.8
Gross TIe as Z of Avera h btal
Assts (M)                         4.3      7.7      8.3    16.5    28.3    26,0    25.6    25.4
Fnial  mes as Z ofa  A             0.2      1.4     1.3      2.6    10.9    11.9    12.2    12.3
Salaries ard Mudixdtrati'E
Expoer  as 2 of ATA               8.4      8.9    10.4      7.6      6.6      6.2     6.5      7.4
lm frwm LoTs as a Z of Aversb
Ican lbrtE0ol                    12.6    24.8    30.3    19.1    31.7    27.7    27.0    26.7
Net In.x  as a 2 of Ahve   Net Worth (6.0)    (5.3)   (20.0)  8.4    25.2    21.7    20.3    17.2
Source: FNK
iy19 5



-55                                     ANNEX 6
T-11
WM ARWAISL MW
SM= S9L ANDiw MM=       i nnmc -mVUa f FRW
Ui - BaLJM   gMs 1981 - 19Q8
(In1 cret M*flldm)
A u d I t e d8Il    P  R  0  J  E  C  T  E  D
1981     1982     1983    L194      1985     1986    1987    1988
ASEr
csh, BDud ad Negpttasile knwst.   53.3    83.5    254.4    149.2   295.3    392.7    498.7    632.4
A=      3mieeivabmle 6 Otb   Srt-
Tam  cAne  (Not)                 211.7    379.9   402.5   404.9    516.6    727.0   923.3  1,54.1
Injmtmy                           3D.1     51.0   110.2    226.6    305.9   406.8   516.7    645.9
S9Inta1                          295.1    514.4   837.1    780.7  1,147.8  1,525.5  1,938.7  2,432.4
rsm b/
Short tolam                       12.3    32.4      46.2    63.4      -        -        -        -
Izxp3 tamse                       14.5    65.7      93.4    23.9      -        -        -        -
Sub-tota>l                        26.8    98.1    139.6   8j:i3i 7.3    449.(( 1,129.6  2,141.9  3,611.4
Fnmd Atnes (net)                    384.6   314.3  1,779,8  2,040.1  3,372.3  4,287.4  5,540.7  7,543.9
Otiwr MAsto                          11.6     17.9     63.6     70.0    94.5    125.7   159.6    199.5
OJM ASSEIS                         718.1    944.7  2,670.1  2,978.1  5,063.6  7,069.2  9,780.9 13,787.2
--4E-S AM -r--
Qmret Umbilities
kmdits fzza 9TI1ems               30.5     28.0    22.3    124.5    168.1    223.5    283.9    354.9
OthEr  TenNst LiablLitip          76.1    59.1    164.8   178.8    241.4   321.0   407.7    509.6
Sbp-total                        106.6    87.1    187.1   313.3   409.5    544.5    691.6   864.5
Bocrzosi Inag-tern                   21.4    21.4    21.4    827.8  2,098.8  3,142.2  4,545.8  6,M9.0
lthal T.abUith eS                 128.0   108.5   208.5  1,131.1  2,498.3  3,686.7  5,237.4  7,253.5
SwuSty                              590.1  836.2  2,611.6  1,847.0  2M.3  3,382.5  4> 63.5  6,533.7
-w-L LTAUIEU1ES AND 1Q=            718.1    944.7  2,820.1  2,978.1  5,063.6  7,069.2  9,78D.9 13,787.2
F^   UIAL INMATS
L.td1tIeia/qaLty                     0.22     0.13     0.0     0.61     0.91     1.09     1.15     1.11
Pertiie hneaae in m3tal  a            4.8     31.6    198.5      5.6     70.0     39.6    38.4    41.0
PeraCo  In-re  in lam P1rtolro        -      266.0    42.3   -37.5    414.3    151.6    89.6    68.6
FerentMe Tlomie in lipty             -1.1     41.7    212.3   -29.3      38.9     31.9    34.3    43.8
a/ flu audited bal    sbre embe bum adjustd by de      frm ttI assets the debt to FSM  regstered as deferre
dr        and frm eqty the    < rreupondiag
bt Eqgoatkx ctracts.
c/ Pka. 1985  amds the esporatis cmacts 1dU be registsred as   ts as tiey are dEsbzrs, rather them heeFp
th  out  I  the wv*s are finishid. Tis cbwi& w.12 podum a *sum Incee in low portfolo ding 1985.
Jaumy 1965



AIRE 6
-56-                               T-12
SEAP  &         AW=
9£0W l AMD lM SWAZ MIM EYEvMM  W
CM -         Stateist  1981- 1988
(in airrent Mb4 -ilni)
A u d  i t e d   Pe         y    P  R  0  J  E  C  T  E  D
1981    1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988
Goveriwnt Trarsfers              1,031.8  1,232.5  2,094.6  3,249.7  3,375.0  4,380.4  5,624.6  7,012.8
RoyaltIes                          104.1    145.7    308.6    211.4    285.4   379.6   482.0   602.5
Gild Sales                         -        -        -        -      2,542.0  3,380.9  4,293.9  5,367.3
Otber Irncam                       134.2 a  172.9    167.3    377.0   55.6   828.8  1,23.8  1,82L.6
Total                          1,270.1  1,551.1  2,570.5  3,838.1  6,759.0  8,s69.7 11,634.3 14,804.2
FThmKS    E   _pes                 -         2.7      2.7       3.0    180.3   327.2   475.8    677.0
Projects in Development            910.6   859.6  1,462.2  3,425.0  4,807.5  6,668.0  8,651.0 10,99L2
Salaries                           360.6   492.1    679.1  1,034.0  1,396.0  1,856.0  2,357.0  2,947.0
Otber MiFlntratiw Exnses            11.2     15.9    36.0      63.0    89.0    118.5    150.5    188.0
Total                          1,282.4  1,370.3  2,180.0  4,525.0  6,472.   8,969.7 11,634.3 14,804.2
Surnibxs or Deflcit                (12.3)   180.8    390.5  (686.9)   286.2     -        -        -
RATIOS
Gross Incxue as Z of Average Total
Aists (AM1)                       176.9    186.6   136.6    132.4    168.1    147.9    138.1    125.6
Net Incm  as a Z of Avege E¢quiy    (2.1)    25.4    22.7   (3D.8)    13.0      -        -        -
Salaries and ido EXp. as X of ATA  51.8    61.1      38.0      37.8    36.9    32.6    29.8       26.6
Orrent Obvt. Subsdies   X of
Total Expss                       80.5     89.9    96.1    71.8    52.1        48.8    48.3    47.4
Finui.al Eqxmses as a Z ofd        -         0.3      0.1      0.1      4.5      5.4      5.7      5.8
a/ Wx$ 21.4 wmIion are deduzd because they are WMI resources lnt to CIL
b/ hbludes Interest on Iara for the projections. Ty were not included before.
Souce: CRtS
LPI2
January 1985



57 -                                       ANUM6
gEXIOD                                    T-13
STAFF APPAISAL REIP
SECOID 9ULL AIND MEDIUtM SCAU  MIIIII DEVMOPIIUIT PROJCCT
Characcerioticn of SubproJecto Approved by thb  Bank under Loan LO8201 as of D.c..ber 31. 1984
NO. Of                       Subloa
Subprojects         S         AnCout             S
(US$'000)
1.  Size of lon, distribution
Up                To        5,000           1              1.5         3.3              _
5,000       To        10,000          I              1.5         7.2               -
10,000       To       20,000           3              3.9        50.2
20.0oo       To        50,000          7              9.1       265.1               1.1
50.000       To       100,000         15             19.5      1,014.4             4.3
100.000       To      500.000          33            42.4      8,421.4             35.6
500,000       To    1.000,000          13             16.9     8,798.6             37.2
1.000,000       And      over             4             5.2      5 116.9             21.6
Total        77            1        IV.0 21 e7.          1T0.0
2.  Type of Subproject
Expamion                                   63            81.8    19,378.7               81.8
Nw                                         14            11.2      4.298.8              18.2
Total                                23,67                100.0
3.  Project Location
Coahuila                                    4              5.1       537.7              2.3
ChLhhua                                    to10           13.0     1,249.5              5.2
Durango                                     6             7.8      1,059.6              4.0
Edo. de IMxico                              1              1.3       350.0              1.5
Cuerreco                                    I              ..3       655.8              3.0
Iidalgo                                     2             Z.5         61.8              0.3
Jalisco                                     6             7.7      1,683.3              7.1
Nlchoacan                                   1              1.3       382.7               1.4
Morelos                                     2             2.5        327.9               1.4
Nayarit                                     2             Z.5      1.935.0              8.1
Nuevo Lroe                                  9            11.6      1,176.7              S.2
Oxaca                                       7             9.1    1663.9                7.0
Pimbla                                      2             2.5      1,410.5              6.0
Sinalo-                                     6             7.7      2,633.3             11.1
Sonora                                      5             6.'      3,200.7             14.4
Tscatan                                     1              1.3       678.3              2.8
Zicaceca                                   11             14.2     4 587.6             19.2
Total             100          0 Z 3 6 77.    5 I3 ;
4.  Size of operation
Smal                                       44            57.0      9,621.4             41.6
"odium                                     33            43.0    14 056.1              58.4
Total        7             l7Y.                          100.0
5.  Tpe of i ent
Ietallic                                   30             39.0    12,818.2             54.1
Non-NmtallIc                               47            61.0    10 859.3              45.9
Total           I.TO Z 3.677.5                          100.0
6.  fly P ct-onCapacit
(Toii7Dny)
lip         To            50               30            39.0      4.900.0             18.6
51   To           100               13             16.9     4,247.1              17.7
101   To           250               20             26.0     6,648.5             29.7
251   To           500                a             10.3     2,772.7              10.9
501   To           800                2              2.5     1,262.4               5.5
800           And over                4              5.3     3846.8               17.4
Total      17      0    .         -23,77.5100.0
Source: PECll and Bank recordc.
LCPI2
January 1985



- 58 -
ANNEK 6
T 14
MEXICO
APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements a/
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                        Quarterly                  Cumulative
and Quarter (Ending Date)              Disbursements
1986
September 30, 1985                      -                           -
December 31, 1985                      1.5                         1.5
March 31, 1986                         1.7                         3.2
June 30, 1986                          3.1                         6.3
1987
September 30, 1986                     3.2                         9.5
December 31, 1986                      5.2                        14.7
March 31, 1987                         5.3                        20.0
June 30, 1987                          5.7                        25.7
1988
September 30, 1987                     5.8                        31.5
December 31, 1987                      6.8                        38.3
March 31, 1988                         6.9                        45.2
June 30, 1988                          6.9                        52.1
1989
September 30, 1988                     6.9                        59.0
December 31, 1988                      6.2                        65.2
March 31, 1989                         6.3                        71.5
June 30, 1989 b/                       5.2                        76.7
1990
September 30, 1989                     5.3                       82.0
December 31, 1989                      4.2                        86.2
March 30, 1990                         4.2                        90.4
June 30, 1990                          3.1                        93.5
1991
September 30, 1990                     3.2                       96.7
December 31, 1990                      2.1                        98.8
March 31, 1991                         2.2                       101.0
June 30, 1991                          1.5                       102.5
1992
September 30, 1991                     1.5                       104.0
December 31, 1991 c/                   1.0                       105.0
al  This schedule is based on the average disbursement profiles for IDF projects
in the LAC region, without adjustment for the special account and retroactive
financing.
b/  Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
c/  Closing date.
LCPI2
April 1985



59                                   ANNEX 7
Page 1
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Mining
1. Informe a la XLVII Asamblea General Ordinaria de la Camara Minera de
Mexico 1983-1984. Report on the Mexican Mining Sector published by the
Mexican Mining Chamber.
2. La Mineria, en Auge en Medio del Derrumbe. Article published by the
magazine -Expansion," November 7, 1984. It examines the development of
the mining activity in 1983.
3. Programa Nacional de Mineria 1984-1988. The National Mining Program for
1984-1988 published by the Government in August 1984.
4. Legislacion Minera. Editorial Porrus S.A., 1978. A compendium of the
mining legislation.
5. Ley Reglamentaria del Articulo 27 Constitucional en Materia Minera y su
Reglamento 1981. Published by the Ministry of National Patrimony and
Industrial Development. Legislation regulating tho institutions and the
sector activities.
6.  Anuario Estadistico de la Mineria Mexicans - 1982.  Published by Consejo
de Recursos Minerales. Contains statistical information on the mining
sector up to 1982.
B. Institutions
1. Decreto que crea CFM. Published by the Official Newspaper on August 31,
1934. Government Decree creating CFM.
2.  Reglamento de CFM. Published by the Official Newspaper on January 25,
1939. CFM By-Laws.
3. Ley Sobre El Patrimonio de CFM. Published by the Official Newspaper on
January 25, 1939. Establishes how CFM equity was to be integrated.
4. CFM - Dictamenes de Auditoria Para los anos 1981, 1982 y 1983. Auditors'
reports for. the years 1981, 1982 and 1983.
5.  FNM - Manual de Credito.  A pamphlet descrioing FDN's credit f-clities,
published in 1984.



ANNEX 7
-60-                              Page 2
6. FUK - Dictamenes de Auditoria-para los anos 1981, 1982 y 1983. Auditors'
reports for 1981, 1982 and 1983.
7. CRM - Dictamenes de Auditoria para los anos 1981, 1982 y 1983. Auditors'
reports for 1981, 1982 and 1983.
C. Other
1. Profitability in 1983. Mexico's Leading Firms Turn Lean and Mean.
"Business Latin America," October 17, 1984. A survey of the major Mexican
firms and how they fared 1983.
2. Ley Federal del Trabajo.  Published by the Ministry of Labour. A
compendium of Labour Legislation up to 1978.
3. Codigo Sanitario.  Editorial Porrua, 1979. A compendium of public health
legislation.



*  '~~~~~~~*%.                           U~~~~~~~NITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
*%'   I   I                                                                           ~~~~~MEXICO
DAJA                                                                                                      *          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04UI       Prfrags curies or .e.
CAll, IA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                       -    0 ~~~~~~~~wid   k%6..v
+   PIWW*4 ~ ~ ~ ~ PIJd
9 . 6.                                                                        b utomb rist~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~U C M .  
a., .1Caih        MexicoN
'I    f   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,!                                                                             ,~~~~~~~A II 
~~  ~~~   ~~~    aqe                                                                                          /    4*                         iI*~~~~~~~~~-m 
PA CIFIC  OCEAN ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ UAEML
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~      G
b*.ft* W.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BL
-  - -  -- -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4    inI 0
F'... ~    6                            3                                                                                                                 GU T M L
ir ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ U 



