Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-4048-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USM1D5.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
.
SECOND SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 30, 1985
Thi docment n a re*tbied dItibuio msd nmy be used by recipients only in the perfomance of
tedr omEda dutieL lbs cntents may not otherwise be dtsclosd witbout Wod BDnk autburlutlon.



Curwney Unlt P- so NWS)
On March 31, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1   Mex$208.79; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 - Mex$226.85.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$0.21 per day against
the US dollar.
Piscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WeiEhts and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter tm)           =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)       -    2.20 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (MT)     =    2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)           =    0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF        Index of Average Cost of Short-Term Borrowing to the Banking System
CFM        Comision de Fomento Minero
(Mining Development Commission)
CRM        Consejo de Recursos MKnerales
(Mineral Resources Council)
FNM        Fideicomiso de Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos
(Trust Fund for Non-Metallic Minerals)
GIRA.      General Interest Rate Agreement
NAFINSA    Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PECAM      Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequena y
Mediana Mineria
(Special Complementary Program for SMM)
PEMEX      Petroleos Mexicanos, S.A.
(Mexican Oil Company)
SEMIP      Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal
(Secretariat of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industries)
SHCP       Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
SECOFI     Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
(Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development)
SMMs       Small- and Medium-Scale Xining Enterprises
SPP        Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(Secretariat of Programming and the Budget)



FOR OMCLCL USE ONLY
S"LL- AMD VzD31W-CALX Rm=  D LNT PROJECT
Loan and Proect 
Borroemr:      Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Prodect        Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequena y
4Mediana Mineria (PECAN)
AgENcies:      Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM)
Fideicomiso de Minerales No-Netalicos Mexicanos (FNK)
Comision de Recursos Minerales (CRM)
Amount:        US$105.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Mulending  NAFINSA would pass on US$102 million to CFM, FNM, and CRM, Who
Terms:         would, in turn, relend US$76 million in pesos to SMN enter-
prises, through subloans with terms of up to 12 years, including
a grace period of up to three years, and floating interest rates
based on the average cost of funds to the banking system (ACF),
in accordance with the tervm of the General Interest Rate Agree-
ment (GIRA) between the Government and the Bank. CEM and FNM
would onlend a part of these funds through commercial banks,
which would retain a spread of between 2.5 and 3.0 percentage
points. CFM would also lease equipment to SMs for up to eight
years, including a grace period of one year, with financial
charges as specified in GIRA. CFM, FNM and CRK would repay the
amounts they borrowed under the loan to PECAN, and the Govern-
ment-through NAFINSA--would repay the Bank loan, including
interest, and bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project        The proposed project hae been designed to support the Govern-
Description:   ment's sector development strategy, building and expanding upon
the accomplishments of the first Bank project in Mexico's SM
sector. by means of a comprehensive program of technical and
financial assistance.  It would finance evaluative exploration,
mine development and exploitation; strengthen the capabilities
of the major institutions supporting SNMs; and improve coordina-
tion within the SMM sector. Commercial bank lending to SMMs
would be encouraged under the project, which would help build up
the second-tier credit operations of two key sector agencies-
CIF and FIM.
Thisdocument haanotiesbdistribution and maY beused by fedipbteno in theporfonnuse
o  m offichEd dutas. Its contento maynot otherwu bediscksed whhout WorldBank authofizoWn.



- il 
Prolect lisk: Although the proposed project faces no special risks, lower than
expected commercial bank participation and low mineral prices
might affect its implementation.  However, in view of PM's
satisfactory experience with commercial banks recently and the
adequate spreads allowed, the probability of the first risk is
low, and, given the broad range of minerals mined by SKNs and
the record low international metal prices, which are unlikely to
further drop sharply, the second risk is acceptable.
Estimated Cost:                                 (In US$ Millions Equivalent)
Local    Foreign      Total
Investments by SlOs:                             99.0       60.0      159.0
ITaestuset by CPR, FNW and CM, fort
Equipment Leasing                                 8.0        5.0       13.0
Regional Beneficiation Plants                    14.0       10.0       24.0
Laboratories                                      2.0        4.0        6.0
Exploration Equipment                             1.0        3.0        4.0
SUBTOTAL                                    25.0      22.0        47.0
T.ebnil Assistance:                                         2.0        4.0
TOTAL  .                                   126.0      84.0       210.0
Finacing Plan:
'World Bank                                      21.0       84.0      105.0
Government                                       76.0        -         76.0
PECAM                                             9.0        -          9.0
Sifs                                             20.0       -          20.0
TOTAL                                      126.0      84.0       210.0
Estimated                               (Bank FY/US$ Millions)
Disbursements:_
86     87     88    89       90     91      92
Annual              6.3   19.4   26.4   24.6   16.8    9.0    2.5
Cumulative          6.3   25.7   52.1   76.7   93.5  102.5  105.0
Rate of      All subprojects should have a minimum FRR of 12%.  Calculation of
Return:      ERR would be required only for subprojects that involve Bank
financing in excess of US$0.5 million equivalent; in such cases, a
minimum ERR of 12% would be required.



- ii.i-
Staff
Deport:       No. 5454b-1IE, April 26, 1985.



TNTDJAIONL BAN  FORCOSTUCTION   D 9DRM
REPORT AND RE(XIEHUDhTIOE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO TE EKWECUTLYE DIRECTORS ON
A DRPOSED LOAK TO EACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITD THE GUARANTER OF UNITED LMXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND SHALL- AND NEDIIK-SCALE mDIENG DEVELODKEW  PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
X         Nacional Financiera, S.A., (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Hexican
States for the equivalent of US$105.0 million to help finance a Second Small-
and Medium-Scale Mining (SMM) Development Project. The loan would be repaid
over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. About US$76 million equivalent would be relent in pesos to small- and
medium-scale mining enterprises, through subloans with maturities up to 12
years, including 3 years of grace, and variable interest rates based on the
ACF, in accordance with the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between the
Government and the Bank. Financial intermediaries would earn a margin of
between 2-1/2 and 3 percentage points. The balance of the loan would be for
investments in support services to SMN enterprises and for technical assis-
tance. The Government would repay the Bank loa- through. iAFINSA and bear the
foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECOiy 1/
2.     An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments and
Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 14,
1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.     Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the late
1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the "easy and efficient possibil-
ities for import substitution, and faced a choice between outward-oriented
growth or continued inward-directed growth led by expansion of public sector
expenditures and rising subsidies and protection of inefficient domestic
production. By 1972, the choice was made to pursue the latter course. Public
sector expenditures as a percent of GDP more than doubled between 1970 and
1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report No. 4996-ME, p. 114). By 1976, Mexico expe-
rienced a serious financial and economic crisis, followed by an even more
serious one six years later. The discovery of large oil reserves in the mid-
1970s led Mexico to a quick economic recovery, but it also removed the urgency
of policy reforms. Primary among these was the need to reduce protection and
the anti-export bias of the trade regime to thereby move over time toward
greater efficiency and international competitiveness. Oil revenues also tempo-
rarily helped finance the public sector deficit and reduced the need for
greater fiscal restraint.
1/   Parts I and II of this Report are substantially unchanged from the
corresponding sections in the Presitdent's Report for the Chiapas
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-4023-ME of March 29, 1985).



-2-
Develojmeutm during 1977-1982
4.     The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo
Administration (January 1977-December 1982) to overcome the serious financial
crisis of 1976 and to start working on structural, social, and economic prob-
lems, including poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional
imbalances, and relatively slow agricultural growth.  In the early years of
that Administration (1978-80), GDP growth was high (8.5Z a year), 2.5 million
jobs were created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of investment
and savings in GDP surpassed historical levels; but the economy became
increasingly overheated.
5.     Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to increas-
ing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure was felt to
adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative ease of
obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic situation began to mirror
the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis. The current account
deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2Z of GDP, while the deteriorating
international oil market conditions caused large revenue shortfalls with re-
spect to budget expectations. The public sector deficit rose to just under 15%
of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and the trade deficit reached record levels.
External borrowing was used to finance part of the domestic fiscal deficit and
to defend the exchange rate. Mexico's foreign debt increased rapidly, at a
time of high and rising international interest rates.  A stabilization program
initiated by-the Government in mid-1981 was not sufficient to redress the grow-
ing fiscal imbalance, the high cost of foreign loans, and the increasing pri-
vate capital flight fueled by the public's anxiety over Mexico's financial
troubles.
6.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, vhich then
experienced a 40Z devaluation in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community became reluctant
to commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35Z in August 1982, while the acute shortage of foreign
exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of most of
Mexico's external public debt, pending a broader agreement on its refinancing.
Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by the nation-
alization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion of US
dollar deposits into pesos.  Also put into effect were a generalized system of
exchange controls and quantitative trade restrictions covering an unprecedented
100% of imports.
Recent Developments
7.     The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and external



-3-
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The Govern-
ment's stabilization program, supported by an EFF agreement approved by the
IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and for
the renegotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which amor-
tization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks
agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide US$5
billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between August
23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight-year period
starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an inter-
est rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York
prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year
grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The restruc-
turing exercise included an understanding that the international banks would
maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized. At
the same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private sector
interest arrears and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on such
debt.
8.     A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at MexS95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35Z in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. The free
market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per dollar until September 1983, when
the authorities decided to let it slide as much as the controlled rate. The
differential between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood close to 60%,
is now down to less than 10%. Over the past two years, the peso has gradually
appreciated in real terms as inflation in Mexico remained high. The Government
increased the rate of slide of the peso from 13 centavos a day to 17 centavos
in December 1984, and to 21 centavos early March 1985, in order to bring it
closer to the expected inflation differential between Mexico and its trading
partners. Domestic deposit interest rates were also raised in early March 1985
from an average of about 45% to nearly 50%.
9.     Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a dras-
tic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0% of GDP in 1982 to 8.5%
in 1983, 5.5% in 1984, and 3.5% in 1985. Substantial progress has been made
during the past two years in meeting the program objectives, although the tar-
gets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were strengthened con-
siderably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7% of GDP in 1983 and
an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reason for the higher budget deficit than
the 1984 target was the much higher than expected interest payments on the
domestic debt. Curbs on expenditures were wide ranging. However, recent esti-
mates suggest that real public investment-encompassing states and local
governments--may have been well in excess of the targets for 1984. The author-
ities have given priority to completing projects that were already far advanced
and to those that were important for employment, equity, or foreign exchange
earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures are estimated to have
declined to about 7Z of GDP in 1983-84, well below the 1982 level of 11.7%.



-4-
The fiscal performance was also aided by significant price increases for nearly
all public goods and services, including petroleum products, electricity rates,
food, etc. The Government has committed itself to a substantial reduction and
eventual elimination of most subsidies, including those provided in the form of
low interest rates.
10.    The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with the
current account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the avail-
ability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its international
reserves while paying a large part of the arrears that had accumulated in
1982. The net use of foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion
for the year-below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization pro-
gram. The errors and omissions account of the balance of payments dropped from
US$8 billion in 1982 to an estimated US$1.4 billion in 1983, largely reflecting
the decline in unrecorded capital outflows. The swing in the current account
was mainly the result of a very sharp contraction of merchandise imports, to
US$7.7 billion, representing a decline of about US$7 billion from their 1982
level. The recession, the large devaluation of the peso, and the quantitative
restrictions, all contributed to this. The balance of payments remained strong
in 1984, with a current account surplus of US$3.7 billion; and a further US$2.5
billion were added to the nation's foreign exchange reserves, which at the
year's end are estimated at a-bout 7-1/2 months of imports. Although imports
recovered considerably, a rapid rise in non-oil exports, particularly in the
first quarter of 1984, ensured that the trade surplus remained at the same
level as in 1983, i.e., about US$13 billion. Growth in tourism and in-bond
industry was also strong, and helped in alleviating unemployment. These favor-
able external trends during late 1983 and early 1984 weakened in mid-1984,
owing to an appreciating real exchange rate.
11.    Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the Government's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate of inflation continued to decline through mid-1984.
It declined from a rate of about IOOX in 1982, to 80Z and 59Z in 1983 and
1984, respectively. The main factors in this were restrained fiscal and mone-
tary policies and moderate wage adjustments. The flow of savings into the
banking system continued to rise, reflecting the beneficial influence of the
exchange rate and interest rate policies. The impact of the severe and sudden
cuts in public expenditure and imports on economic growth in 1983 was serious
when GDP declined by over 5Z. However, the economic recovery in 1984 was
stronger than the Government's expectations: GDP is estimated to have risen by
about 3.5Z, compared to the earlier estimate of only 1%. Since the latter half
of 1984, fiscal, monetary, and external trends have signaled a possible
resurgence of inflationary pressures.
12.    The Government also took steps to regain the confidence of both domestic
and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with the prob-
lems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of nationalized
banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment law.   Nego-
tiations with commercial banks and other private creditors have been completed



-5-
for the refinancing of nearly half of the total of US$11.6 billion of private
sector obligations, at stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years,
with 3- to 4-year grace periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the re-
structuring of Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official credit
agencies abroad. The Government has also transferred back to private ownership
most of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks
prior to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have been
beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore the confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importancp, as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.
13.    The general improvement in the Mexican economy has been widely noted,
particularly by the international banking community. Mainly for this reason,
the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from commercial banks carried
much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983 (10 year maturity, 5-3/4
year grace period, and a spread of 1-1/2% over LIBOR or 1-1/8Z over prime).
The negotiations between the Government and foreign commercial banks on the
rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually completed. The draft agree-
ment, covering close to US$50 billion, has been submitted by the Banks' Advi-
sory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders) to some 500 smaller regional
banks for their acceptance. Under the proposed terms, the previously unre-
scheduled debt (amounting to about US$20 billion), which is due for repayment
in 1985-90, will have its maturities stretched over 14 years. The maturities
of the previously rescheduled debt coming due in 1987-90 will be stretched over
11 years. The 1983 syndicate loan of US$5 billion will be restructured, after
prepayment of US$1 billion, to carry terms identical to the 1984 syndicate
loan. In summary, the pending rescheduling agreement will stretch maturities
of US$50 billion public debt in such a way that the debt service remains vir-
tually constant between 1985-1998, in contrast to the present situation, where
75% of the debt service is due in 1986-89. The banks will have the choice of
LIBOR, a domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate. These terms are based on
the understanding that the Government will continue to adhere to prudent eco-
nomic policies. The rescheduling agreement covering US$29 billion of Govern-
ment debt was signed on March 29, 1985. Another US$19 billion in loans to
Mexican Government agencies will be refinanced between now and June. This
followed the approval on March 25 by the IMF of a third-year Extended Fund
Facility.
Nedium-Term Prospects
14.    The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development Plan
(NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present crisis
with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth to over-
come structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the years ahead
include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6% estimated for 1983)
together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a little under 4%),
slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed interpersonal and inter-
regional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent economy with a strong
anti-export bias.



-6-
15.    The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy, including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through basic
needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and decentralization of
economic activity. The basic elements of policies to address structural prob-
lems are mentioned In the NDP, and further details on specific program and
schedules for policy adjustments are provided ln the sectoral plans which were
prepared subsequently.
16.    Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent, pri-
vate sector confidence is restored, and the international environment remains
favorable. Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued efforts to
reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade, and minimize price distortions.
Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial, since only a strong and
dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the present de-
pressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus required for
the resumption of grcwth. As regards the external environment, the commercial
banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real terms, and for-
eign markets, to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. Mexico will benefit
directly from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world financial mar-
kets (a one percentage point drop means a savings of about US$800 million in
overall interest payments, which compares to a loss of US$550 million in gross
export revenues that would result from a one dollar drop in the export price of
oil).
17.    Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year-the post-WW3I average for
Mexico-towards the late 1980s   This growth would materialize through a sus-
tained redirection of the economy toward a more outward-oriented growth pat-
tern. Fiscal discipline, in the absence of improved domestic efficiency and
export development, is likely to entail a prolonged period of slow growth,
characterized by insufficient labor absorption in internationally competitive
activities, domestic price distortions, and a continued need for subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.   Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983, and by about a similar amount in 1984. With an expected net new borrow-
ing of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to GDP
would decline steadily from 41% in 1984, to 33% by 1990. The debt service
ratio, after the proposed rescheduling, is projected to peak at 47Z in 1988;
thereafter, it gradually declines to about 25% in 1995.
19.    At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3% (excluding undisbursed). The Bank share in Mexico's total public external
debt service payments during that year was 4Z. In view of the good medium- and
long-term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued pursuit of
sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for IBBD borrowing.



-7-
PART II- MAN  GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXIO
hunk Operations
20.    As of March 31, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,465.6 million, of which US$1,948.9 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 42Z of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural devel-
opment, 23% for industry, 11X for power, and 13Z for transportation; the re-
maining llX has been for water supply, tourism, urban development, vocational
training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of March 31, 1985.
21.    Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale indus-
trial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather than
credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and Bank
officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater atten-
tion was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these mea-
sures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily
until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78, to US$448
million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again causing delays
in the provision of counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in
early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding con-
straints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are receiving
support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during
1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35% over disbursements in
1983.
IYFC Operations
23.   As of March 31, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27 compa-
nies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$562.5 million had
been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is pre-
sented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in preparing
proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange financing
to private sector companies, for the importation of machinery, equipment and
spare parts required for production of exportable products, for efficient
import substitution, and for improvements in the utilization of their existing
productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility (including funds



mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is providing finance
for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted under the Bank loan
for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.    The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment;
(c) help reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottle-
necks which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to
Mexico's requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close
cooperation with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program
through assistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic
and sector work. As for medium-term prospects, the volume and composition of
Bank lending to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of
policy reforms needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy
conditionality affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it.
Specific policy reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the
Government, conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations,
cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate
policy, energy pricing, subsidy reduction, and export development.
25.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the sec-
tor's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living in
the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lend-
ing. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals: first,
to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general; second,
to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third, to
complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as extension,
marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-generating
investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 14 loans in FYs78-83 totalling
US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-
industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural
development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabilitation
project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4 mil-
lion loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was approved in
early FY83.  A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was approved by
the Executive Directors in April 1983, and a $300 million Eighth Agricultural
Credit Project in June 1984. A US$90 million loan for a Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project, together with a Chiapas Rural Roads Project, was approved
by the Executive Directors on April 30, 1985. Projects for tropical agricul-
ture, irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed multiplication,
and agricultural credit are in various stages of preparation.
26.    Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance of
payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the major,
increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater empleyment. A
steel project, which the Bank helped structure and finance, is now operatiug in



-9-
a previously underdeveloped area on the West coast of Mexico, and the city in
which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new growth pole.
Four loans for industrial projects--to promote the development of small- and
medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion of small- and medium-
scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI)--were ap-
proved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A US$90.0 million loan foz a
vocational training project, which is assisting a program to increase the sup-
ply of skilled workers and technicians, a US$152.3 million loan for the devel-
opment of a capital goods industries project, and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A modifi-
cation in the capital goods project was approved by the Executive Directors in
early 1983, to set up a pilot export development fund to help satisfy the for-
eign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan for an Export
Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small- and Medium-
Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive Directors in
F.83. A follow-up vocational training project is expected to be presented to
the Board in Late May 1985.
27.   Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies.  Two higbvay
sector projects (FY79 and FY84), the fourth railway project (FY81), and an
industrial ports project (FY84) support these goals.  The first and second
med7um-size cities water supply and sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce
the planning, management and finance of specialized water supply and sewerage
institutions at the federal and municipal levels, and contribute to the
establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs; a third project was
approved by che Executive Directors on May 17, 1983. A fifth railway project
is expected to be presented to the Board also in late May 1985.
28.    The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that spells
out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by the
Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
29.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE ("Centro de
Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico' under the Secretariat of Programming and
Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitoring, and
evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional
development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has
also assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.
30.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1985. Over 50% of the total has gone to
agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transportation,
industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure, education,



- 10 -
municipal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank have coordi-
nated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the
national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and live-
stock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel devel-
opment projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in the
state of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank
is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
31.    Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer, and tourism projects in Mexico
have been cofinanced by several bilateral export credit agencies and commercial
banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from commercial banks
to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects where project
specific cofinancing would have been difficult.
pART LII - TEM  ININ  S=OR 2/
background
32.    Mining is an ancient activity in Mexico and has been at the core of the
nation's development throughout most of its history. Endowed with significant
mineral resources,3/ Mexico has a broad human resource base of mine workers
and well trained engineers and managers. Traditionally, mining has played a
dominant role in the Mexican economy, supplying raw materials to local industry
and earning foreign exchange from exports. Until the late 19309, mining was
one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy. It accounted for about 4% of
GDP in the 1930s, but this share declined to 1.3% by the late 1970s, mainly
because of inadequate domestic policies and the country's petroleum boom. The
sector is, however, one among the few that have grown recently in real terms,
despite the country's severe economic crisis: in 1982-1983, mining output grew
by 0.2% and 1.3%, respectively, while the economy as a whole contracted by 0.2%
and 4.7%. Mineral production reached about US$2.5 billion equivalent in 1983,
with metallic minerals accounting for 66% of the total. Foreign exchange earn-
ings from mining amounted to US$980 million, being only third in importance
after oil and tourism, and representing a growth of 13Z over the 1982 level.
33.    At present, over 5,000 mines operate in the country, providing jobs for
about 210,000 persons, or roughly 1X of the labor force.  Ownership and opera-
tion of the mines are classified into three groups:
Parastatal Enterprises: consisting of over 40 medium and large size
companies, fully owned and controlled by the Government, which produce
2/   All statistics and analyses of the mining sector presented in this
report exclude figures for petroleum and related hydrocarbons.
3/  Mexico currently occupies first place in world production of silver,
fluorite and arsenic and is among the top five producers of celestite,
antimony, bismuth, graphite, mercury, sulphur and six other minerals.



- 11 -
35-39Z of Mexico's total mining output. Parastatals were created to
develop strategic minerals4/ or to make investments considered too
large for the private sector.
Large Private Enterprises: comprising six large corporations, either
fully privately-owned or with a minority Government participation. They
account for about 46-49X of the nation's mineral production, and operate
mainly in precious and industrial metals.
Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Enterprises (SMHs): including some 5,000
units, which range from one-family mines to companies that compare in
size and output to a division of large private enterprises. Government
participation in this segment of the sector is not significant.
Mining Legislation and Pblicies
34.    In response to the sector's relative decline after the 1930s, a new
Mining Law was passed in 1975. This Law has: (a) assigned responsibilities to
the various agencies; (b) regulated concessions, exploration, processing and
trading of all minerals; (c) set Mexican majority ownership as a requirement
for all mining enterprises; and (d) defined discretionary powers for the Gov-
ernment, such as declaring certain zones to be state mining reserves. The Law
levied a production tax on the ex-smelter market value of the minerals, estab-
lished tax credits for re-investment in exploration or development, and allowed
import duty exemptions of up to 75X on mining equipment.
35.    To increase the sector's efficiency and to strengthen its competitive
edge internationally, the Government introduced two major tax changes in 1983:
(a) the mineral production tax was eliminated and replaced by a new -right-to-
exploit" payment on the net smelter value, which, in effect, reduced the cost
to miners;5/ and (b) the dividend tax was raised from 21% to 55X. Further-
more, in early 1984, the import tax exemption--the last specific subsidy to the
sector-was also eliminated. In addition, internal prices for metallic miner-
als have been allowed to follow international price levels, while for non-
metallic minerals, the prices are generally determined by domestic supply and
demand.
36.    Mining concessions to SMMs do not hinder their development.  Minerals
underground belong to the state, but surface deposits belong to the landowner.
*        Mining concessions to SMNs for exploration or exploitation are transferable,
and can be now used as collateral for loans. Underground deposits can be
claimed anywhere in Mexico, but require specific authorization of the Ministry
of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industries (SEMIP).  Concessions for explora-
tion are granted for up to three years, covering a maximum of 50,000 hectares;
for mining exploitation, they are granted for 25 years (renewable for another
4/   Iron ore, coal, sulphur, phosphate, fluorspar and potassium are classified
as National Mining Reserves. Radioactive substances are governed by the
Law of the National Institute of Nuclear Energy.
5/   1983 tax reform:  'right-to-exploit- payments of 7% for gold, silver and
sulphur; 2% for coal, iron ore and manganese; and 5 for all others. This
represents a reduction of 2 percentage points in all cases.



- 12 -
25), and up to 500 hectares. The law allows mining enterprlses--whose explora-
tion concession does not exceed 20 hectares-to start exploiting part of their
reserves, while the exploration program is still in progress, thus helping the
small miners to self-finance exploration works.
NatIonal MIning Progra 1984-1988
37.    To strengthen the country's mining sector, the Government issued a
National Mining Program for 1984-1988, which set the following objectives:
(a) exploiting the full potential of the sector to provide raw materials for
other priority programs in the industry, food and energy sectors; (b) spurring
economic growth through increased exports; (c) creating jobs; (d) contributing
to the development of some of the least advanced regions; and (e) strengthening
the coordination between the mining sector and the economy as a whole. High
priority is assigned to SMMs under this program, for which the Special Comple-
mentary Program for SMMs Development (PECAM) provides the required financial
and institutional support. The 1984-1988 National Mining Program is expected
to have a significant impact on the mining industry's growth over the next
several years.
Small- and Mediuw-Scale Mining (SW)
38.    For operational purposes, PECAM and the Bank classify SMMs as small- or
medium-scale mines whose annual production values do not exceed US$3 million
and US$15 million, respectively, provided, however, that their daily production
capacity is less than 200-300 tons a day for small, and 1,000-1,500 tons a day
for medium-sized metallic or non-metallic mines, respectively. SMfs operate
with adequate profitability, and no major subsidies. This is possible because
of special geological and economic factors, such as: (a) tle high quality and
abundance of mineral deposits, and a generally temperate climate with favorable
rainfall conditions; (b) the high grade of narrow vein deposits typically
exploited by SMMs, and their flexibility to adapt to market conditions; (c) low
labor costs; and (d) the long history of small mining "culture' in the coun-
try. SMMs are relatively labor-intensive; the average capital investment cost
per job created in most SNMs is likely to be in the US$10,000-30,000 equivalent
range, as compared to US$100,000-200,000 equivalent in large mines.
Fiancing and Technical hssistance for S s
39.    Mexico has a well developed banking system, comprising some 200 institu-
tions, most of them publicly owned since 1982. While large mining enterprises
are able to cover, to some extent, their financial needs, either through credit
or internal cash generation, the availability of credit to SMMs has been lim-
ited in Mexico. Given the country's industrial and commercial growth, and the
relative difficulty in assessing the viability of SMM investments or related
risks, the banking system has not been interested in lending to SMMs, unless
meaningful collateral is available. Even so, most commercial bank lending has
been for working capital needs, or through PECAM, since 1980. Financial assis-
tance to SMMs from the Mining Development Commission (CFM), the Mexican Trust
Fund for Non-Metallic Minerals (FNM), and the Mineral Resources Council (CRM)-



- 13 -
all supported under the previous Bank loan (1820-ME) for PECAM-has alleviated
the SMMs' shortage of funds.  The assistance from these institutions, however,
while satisfactory in quality, has catered only to a limited number of SMMs.
Rnvironmental Impact and Safety
40.   Mining enterprises operate subject to federal environmental and safety
standards. In processing ores, the beneficiation plants mainly use neutral
materials with no harmful content. For gold concentration, most beneficiation
operations utilize the flotation process where cyanide is used, but in such
small quantities (if at all) that it decomposes naturally in the tailings
ponds and does not cause any adverse environmental consequences. In the small
number of plants where the cyanide process is used, the contaminated wastes are
recycled after settling out the tailings solids, without cyanide discharges to
the environment. Additionally, in most beneficiation operations, tailings
solids are reprocessed for metal recovery. To help ensure that contamination
problems are not caused by SMHs, PECAM would carry out an environmental impact
study of such operations, under the proposed project. SMMs generally do not
present significant safety problems because they work under favorable condi-
tions, such as mining normally vertical and narrow veins that are embedded in
hard rock and can be ventilated adequately by simple methods. Mine safety
regulations are enforced by the Government. Safety is also provided for in the
contracts between the Syndicate of Mine Workers and mining enterprises. Union
representatives frequently cooperate with the mines to ensure careful monitor-
ing of safety standards. Under the previous Bank-supported mining project,
PECAM would carry out a study to improve further the safety coaditions of
SMMs. Its conclusions are expected to be available by mid-1986.
Overall Potential, Viability, and Development Constraints of SMs
41.    About a 1.8 million km2 area shows potential for mining, but to date-
despite the country's longstanding tradition in mining--only about 15,000 km2,
have been designated as mining areas. In exploiting these resources, SMMs have
an important role to play. During the past decade, the SMM sector has grown at
annual average rates of 4-5% in real terms, despite recent economic difficul-
ties and ebbing international metal prices. This performance was possible
because of the sector's comparative advantages (para. 38) and reasonable
returns on investments. Investments by SMMs in 1979-1984 amounted to approxi-
mately US$100 million each year. With stable international prices and a real-
istic exchange rate, it is expected that SMMs would maintain this level of
annual investments, especially as increasing emphasis is being placed by the
Government on exploration, new mining development, and promotional activities
through PECAN, CRM, CFM and FNM. In line with these expectations, the ceiling
for subproject size under the proposed project would be raised, which in itself
would spur credit demand by medium-sized mines.
42.    In addition to a shortage in financing (para. 39) and still insufficient
exploration work, the main constraints for the development of SMMs in Mexico at
present include: (a) lack of nearby mineral concentration facilities, which
increases crude mineral costs on account of long hauling distances; (b) tech-
nical and administrative difficulties of SMMs; and (c) some shortcomings in the



- 14 -
institutions providing support under PECAM, especially in areas of long-term
planning for mine development, and technical and financial assistance. The
various components of the proposed project would address these constraints.
Past Dank Experience and Sector Strat5a
43.    PECAM and its participating institutions generally performed well under
a US$40 million Bank loan (Ln. 1820-HE) made in 1980. The achievements of the
first Bank loan include: (a) inducing the Government tr establish a coordinat-
ed policy for developing the mining sector and SMMs; (b) spurring regional and
mine development through subprojects and creating some 1,800 new jobs; (c) pro-
viding, mainly through CFH and PFM, otherwise scarce term lending to SPM4s; (d)
developing FNM into a financial institution and preparing CPM to become one
gradually; and (e) initiating beneficial institutional upgrading, which would
serve as a basis for further assistance under a follow-up Bank operation.
44.    The Bank's assistance strategy for the mining sector aims at :  (a) sup-
porting Mexico's export drive to earn foreign exchange; (b) promoting regional
development; and (c) generating employment. While the SMiMs have played a cen-
tral role in the Bank's pursuit of these objectives, recent sector work has
identified other investment opportunities suitable for Bank financing, such as
those required for mining sulphur, phosphate rock, and coal, new exploration
work, and efficiency improvements in large private mines. In addition, the
Bank's involvement in mining also lends support to the implementation of the
General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA), helping to reduce progressively the
Government's subsidy outlays.
PART IV - THE PROJCT
45.    In mid-1984, the Government indicated its interest in obtaining further
Bank support for the small- and medium-scale mining sector, in order to build
and expand on the accomplishments of the first Bank loan (1820-ME), assisting
PECAM. A Bank preparation mission visited Mexico in September 1984, followed
by an appraisal and a post-appraisal mission in November 1984 and January 1985,
respectively. The Bank also conducted an overview of the mining sector in
November 1984, which helped complete the sectoral setting of the proposed oper-
ation. Negotiations took place in the Bank in March/April 1985, and the
Mexican negotiating team was headed by Lic. Arturo Galan de la Barreda, Manager
of IBRD Banking Operations in NAFINSA, and included Lics. Luis Willars Andrade,
Antonio Cervera Sandoval, Clemente Licon Avila, and Luis Macedo, representa-
tives of PECAM, CFM, FNM, CRM; and Lics. Luis Nava Hernandez and Federico
Patino of NAFINSA in Washington, D.C. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5454b-ME
of April 26, 1985) is being circulated separately. Annex III provides supple-
mentary data on the project.
Project Desription
46.    The proposed project has been designed to support the Government's sec-
tor development strategy, aimed at building and expanding upon the accomplish-
ments of the first Bank project in this sector. It would also strengthen the



- 15 -
three project implementing agencies and improve coordination within the small-
and medium-scale mining sector. Commercial Bank lending to S?Ms under the
project would be encouraged, and the project would help build up the second-
tier credit operations of two key sector agencies--CFM and FNM. Specifically,
the proposed project would consist of the following major components:
Credit to SiK enterprlses for:
1)     Investments in fixed assets, including beneficiation and concen-
tration facilities, permanent working capital, and technical
assistance; snd
2)     Exploration activities.
Credit to the Participating Institutions for:
1)     Acquisition, by CFM, of mining machinery and equipment, for
leasing to SMMs;
2)     Construction and/or expansion, by CFM, of some six regional bene-
ficiation plants providing service to S4Ms;
3)     Acquisition, by CEM, of mineral exploration machinery and equip-
ment to assist SMMs' exploration activities; and
4)     Expansion and modernization of the regional laboratories of CFM
and CRM, and construction of new laboratories by FNM.
Comprehensive Action Plan:
Carrying out a comprehensive Action Plan for institutional development
and specific studies by PECAM and the three participating institutions,
including the acquisition and utilization of office equipment.
The project would be carried out during the period of July 1985-June 1991.
Project Costs and Financing
47.    The project's costs are estimated at US$210 million, representing about
two-fifths of all SMM investments in Mexico in 1985-1988. The proposed loan of
US$105 million would finance 50% of project costs, extending the Bank's cost-
sharing arrangements under the SAP and financing local costs up to about 10% of
total project costs. Counterpart funds, equivalent to US$105 million, would be
provided by the Government, PECAM, and the three participating institutions, as
well as by the beneficiary enterprises, who would provide about 15% of their
investments. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would make available counterpart resources for carrying out the project
(Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 16 -
48.    NAFINSA would be the Bank's Borrower, and would, on behalf of the
Government, pass on the proceeds of the loan to PECAM and its participating
iustitutions, in accordance with contractual arrangements which would be satis-
factory to the Bank. CFM, FNM and CRM would repay the amounts they borrowed
under the program to PECAM, who would retain the funds for its assistance to
SMN8 (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government-through
NAFINSA--would repay the Bank loan, including interest charges, and bear the
foreign exchange risk. Execution of the contractual arrangements would be a
special condition of the loan's effectiveness (Section 8.01 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Special Complementary Progrm for SHK (P=CAN)
49.    The proposed project would be part of the Government's assistance pro-
gram for the SMM sector. Following adoption of a new Mining Law in 1975, the
Government established PECAM with the Bank's support in 1980, as a second major
step to revive Mexico's mining sector. PECAM's objectives in assisting SMMs
are reflected in the 1984-1988 National Mining Program (para. 37). PECAM
reports to the Secretariat of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industries (SEMIP),
and is overseen by a Coordinating Committee, headed by the Under Secretary. To
carry out its routine work, PECAM set up a Technical Secretariat, comprising a
small, part-time working group. In order to cope with expanding PECAM opera-
tions, SEMIP has taken administrative measures to upgrade the Secretariat's
work force to a full-time staff, headed by an experienced manager. An agree-
ment was reached during negotiations that PECAM would maintain the Technical
Secretariat with adequate staff for carrying out its activities (Section 3.01
(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
i<ning Development Caomission (Cil)
50.    CFM, the largest and oldest of the three project implementing agencies,
was created in 1934, and works mainly with metallic minerals. Its share in
implementing the proposed project would be the largest, accounting for about
one-half of total costs.  Its objectives are: (i) to serve as the Government's
holding company and executing agency for large mining projects; (ii) to own and
operate mines, and beneficiation plants; aad (iii) to provide financial and
technical assistance to SMMs.
51.    Organization.  CFM's overall policymaking body is its Board of Direc-
tors, headed by the Secretary of SEMIP and including representatives from key
State Secretariats, NAFINSA, CRM, FNM, and the private sector. Operations are
managed through 19 regional offices by a permanent staff of 2,553, including
610 professionals. The-staff is generally well qualified, but needs further
training in management, finance, and economic evaluations, to cope with
stepped-up promotion of, and lending and technical assistance to, SMNs.
52.    Operations, Policies. Although keeping its role as a public holding
company, CFM has expanded, in recent years, its credit operations to SMMs.
More than 90X of its credit went to private companies for mine exploration,
develepment, and exploitation. In addition, CFM leased equipment to SMMs, and



- 17 -
invested in regional beneficiation plants. Investments for SMMs reached about
US$14 million a year in 1981-1983, and about US$24 million Ln 1984. Under the
proposed project, CFM would finance SMMs also as a second-tier institution,
and-to achieve this objective--would encourage commercial bank lending to the
sector.
53.    Finance.  The financial standing of CFM is satisfactory, with more than
90% of its assets financed through equity--mainly Government contributions.
Its holding in 39 subsidiaries and affiliates amounted to about US$49 million
equivalent at cost, representing about 53% of total assets at end-1984, down
from 55% in 1981. Given this financial structure, CFM is planning to increase
its lending, which is expected to bring down this percentage to 43% by 1988.
Its loans in arrears declined from 35% of its total outstanding in 1981, to 18%
by the end of 1984. To reduce this arrearage further, supervision responsibil-
ities would be emphasized in CFM's Action Plan (para. 63). After years of
operating losses, the agency made a profit in 1983 and 1984.
54. Regional Beneficlation Plants (fBPs). CFM currently operates some 20
RBPs, with capacity at each ranging from 100-600 tons a day. The installation
of mini-sized plants at each mine is not feasible, but an RBP can process the
ores of several small mines economically. This is the underlying rationale for
CFM's RBP operations. The majority of the plants, 14 in all, serve small
mines, charging a toll to the users. Traditionally, private investors enter
this type of business only when they supply their own mineral, thus having some
control over the capacity utilization of the concentration facilities. Other-
wise, the private sector has been reluctant to invest in this type of business,
mainly because of the lack of control over ore supplies, the difficulties
involved in operating service plants in isolated areas, the need to provide
technical assistance to small miners, and the existence of attractive invest-
ment alternatives in larger mines, including concentration and smelting facili-
ties. Therefore, SMMs will continue to depend upon CFM's regional plants in
the medium term, and the proposed project would provide financial assistance
for some six new plants.
55.    CFM almost breaks even on its RBP operations.  The tolls cover opera-
tional costs, including depreciation, and--in the case of the only plant that
was financed with debt--financial charges too. This practice contains an
element of subsidy, although the small loss of US$170,000 by all RBPs in 1983
was more than offset by the total value of US$20 million of the products traded
by the mines that used those RBPs.  But, this practice is not fully consistent
with CFM's policies to recover the costs of RBPs, and to ensure that the pri-
vate sector is not discouraged by low tolls to invest in RBPs. Therefore, CFM
would, under its Action Plan, by September 30, 1986: (a) carry out a study of
the profitability of existing RBPs as well as of the mines being serviced;
(b) review the RBPs' accounting system; (c) determine what adjustments, if any,
in tolls should be introduced; and (d) furnish to the Bank the studies' recom-
mendations. An agreement was also reached during negotiations that, CFM would:
(i) charge toll rates for plants financed out of the proceeds of the loan, at a
level sufficient to generate, starting in the third full year of operation of



- 18 -
each plant, an annual rate of return on the average current net value of fixed
assets of not less than the interest rate applicable to credits to small miners
on the date when the plant is put into operation, provided, however, that the
above return would not be less than 70X of the above specified level in the
second full year of operation; and (ii) furnish to the Bank for comments the
recommendations of, and proposed follow-up actions based on, a study of tolling
rates for regional beneficiation plants included in CFN's Action Plan, and sub-
sequently take action to improve the tolling rates for the plants (Section 2.01
(c) of the draft CFM Project Agreement).
Trust Fund for Non-Netallic Minerals (FNN)
56.    FNM's share in implementing the proposed project would be the second
largest, accounting for about two-fifths of total costs. This agency was set
up as a trust fund of NAFINSA, to help develop Mexico's non-metallic mineral
resources by providing credit and technical assistance, promoting processing
plants, and opening "ejido" land for exploration and development. Its govern-
ing body is a Technical Committee, presided by a SEMIP official.  FNM operates
from nine regional offices, with a total staff of 139, which is expected to
expand to 212 by end-1985, in order to increase its credit to SMMs. The Fund's
technical staff is qualified, but requires some training in the areas of
management, finance, and economic evaluations.
57.    Finance.  FNM's overall financial position is satisfactory.  About 44%
of its assets were financed through equity in 1984, and the balance, through
debt instruments. Its loan portfolio grew below inflation in 1981-1983, but
current plans call for an annual real growth of about 20% in 1985-1988.
Arrears in its loan portfolio deteriorated in 1982-1983, representing as much
as 17% of its total outstanding. But, as a result of improved recovery and a
growing loan portfolio, the arrears dropped to 3.3% in 1984. FNM showed losses
consistently in 1981-1983, but, for the first time, profits in an amount of
US$670,000 are estimated for 1984. FNM would, by continued reductions in
administrative costs, maintain a profit in 1985-1988, mainly through improved
project processing and portfolio management.
58.    Operations.  FNM channelled one-fourth of its lending through commercial
banks in 1981-1984.  It lent US$19 million to SMMs in 1984.  The Government's
objective is now to increase further the Fund's lending to SMMs through commer-
cial banks, for which its second-tier operations would be strengthened under
this project.
Mineral Resources Council (CDI)
59.    The Council would have a small share in implementing the project, repre-
senting about 4% of total costs. CRM was set up in 1955, to: (a) carry out
geological surveys and exploration; (b) advise the Government in general on the
exploration, exploitation, and preservation of mineral resources; and (c) coor-
dinate geological studies and research by public sector entities. The National
Mining Program 1984-1988 gave CRM a special mandate to explore sites with high
mineral potential and to intensify its support to SMMs through credit, techni-
cal assistance, and field laboratory services.



- 19 -
60.    Organization.  CRM is responsible to a Board of Directors, chaired by
the Secretary of SEMIP. It has deployed nearly two-thirds of its 2,440 employ-
ees in the field offices. While generally well-qualified, ite staff requires
further training in management and finance of exploration projects.
61.    Finance.  CRM's financial position is strong, with about three-quarters
of its assets financed through equity in 1984. Government contributions cur-
rently also cover part of its operating expenditures. A roughly tenfold in-
crease in debt financing--which CRM first undertook in 1981-is expected to
continue, and CRM would, by 1988, finance nearly one-half of its assets through
borrowing.
Comprehensive Action Plan
62.    To address some of their urgent needs discussed above, PECAM and the
three project implementing agencies would undertake a comprehensive Action
Plan. PECAM would have overall responsibility for the Action Plan, and carry
out directly a small but significant part of the project's technical assistance
program, which would acccount for about 2Z of total costs.  More specifically,
to help upgrade its Technical Secretariat, PECAM would: (a) upgrade its review
system for subloans and prepare a manual; (b) prepare an operating document for
the collection, processing and distribution of project informa.ion; (c) design
a technical assistance program for its participating institutions; and
gd) determine its staff requirements, including a review of job descriptions.
In addition, PECAM would, under the Action Plan, carry out studies required to
support SMMs and set sectoral policy.
63.    While the project appraisal and supervision procedures of CFM, FNM, and
CRM are generally satisfactory, improvements are needed to ensure more systema-
tic project evaluation, including cash flow analysis, and a closer monitoring
of subprojects, especially in the period when the investments are being made.
FNM should strengthen the market evaluation, and C1RM should emphasize overall
project feasibility beyond a survey of geological aspects in project apprai-
sals. Given the expected increase in commercial bank participation, their
supervision responsibilities and those of the regional offices should be
spelled out in greater detail, including the monitoring of problem projects,
subloans with payments in arrears, and periodic reporting requirements on proj-
ect and subloan status. Therefore, as part of the Action Plan, CFN, FNM, and
CRM, would prepare revised appraisal/credit processing and supervision manuals.
64.    In addition, to bring about the required improvements in their opera-
tions, the project implementing agencies would:  (a) prepare overall institu-
tional strengthening plans; (b) propose medium-term planning systems to deal
with institutional strategy, and operational and financial targets and resource
financing; (c) modernize their accounting system; and (d) draw up specific
training programs. Training would be provided to the staff of PECAM, partici-
pating institutions, and commercial banks, covering problem areas discussed in
paras. 51, 56 and 60 and, in a larger sense, helping implement the comprehen-
sive Action Plan. In all, some 350 technical staff would be trained under the
project.



- 20 -
65.    During negotiations, an agreement was reached on a list of the activi-
ties that would be covered by the comprehensive Action Plan. Approval by
PECAM, CFM, FNM and CRM of their respective Action Plans, in terms satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a special condition of effectiveness (Section 8.01 (c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). To carry out the Action Plan, the project would
provide consultant services, including Mexican and international specialists,
at a total cost estimated at US$2 million. Computers and equipment would also
be financed, to help improve operations in PECAM's Technical Secretariat, CFM,
FNM, and CRM.
Project Implewentatlon
66.    The project, as a whole, would be carried out in accordance with PECAM's
Operational Guidelines, which has been under review by PECAM and its partici-
pating institutions. Agreement on the substance of the Guidelines was reached
during negotiations, and their formal adoption would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Section 8.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.    The maximum amount of financing for any investment project or RBP, in-
cluding any outstanding amounts, would be limited to US$5 million equivalent,
and the plants would have a capacity of between 100 and 500 tons a day.
Financing for any leasing operation would be limited to US$1 million equiva-
lent; up to US$7 million would be available to finance leasing operations; and
US$12 million, in the aggregate, would be provided for working capital. Prior
Bank approval would be required for all subloan proposals requesting Bank
financing in excess of US$800,000, all subloans to enterprises in which CFM or
FNM have a controlling interest, and all RBPs. On the whole, the Bank is
expected to review roughly one-fifth of all subprojects, representing about
two-fifths of loan resources. All subprojects would have a minimum financial
rate of return of 12%, and those involving Bank finance in excess of US$500,000
would also have to demonstrate a minimum economic rate of return of 12%
(Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement and Sections 2.01 (b) of the draft CFM
and CRM Project Agreements).
Relending and Leasing Terms
68.    Subloans would be denominated in pesos, with a floating interest rate
based on a percentage of the average cost of short-term borrowing by the bank-
ing system (ACF), in accordance with the terms of the General Interest Rate
Agreement (GIRA) between the Government and the Bank. The ACF, which is a
monthly index, has in general followed inflationary expectations in Mexico.
Recent studies confirmed that it is an adequate benchmark for setting interest
rates. The Government is committed to gradually reducing the interest rate
subsidy that is presently extended to SMM enterprises-which is justified by
its contribution to the balance of payments, employment, and regional develop-
ment goals--and to reducing the dispersion between rates charged to various
classes of borrowers. These objectives are reflected in GIRA. In 1985, ini-
tial interest rates would be at a level equivalent to 80% and 90% of the ACF
for small- and medium-scale mines, respectively, currently equivalent to 38%
and 43% p.a. Lessees of equipment would be charged a monthly financing fee



- 21 -
equivalent to 90X of the ACF (Section B, Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Under the framework of GIRA, the rates for small- and medium-sized
mines would gradually be adjusted upwards, to a standard margin of up to 2
percentage points above ACF over 1985-1987, and maintain consistency with those
charged to small- and medium-scale industry.
Disburwements
69.    Loan funds would be disbursed against 65X of disbursements under each
subloan approved or authorized by the Bank, or of expenditures made by partici-
pating institutions, provided, however, that the percentage of disbursements
would be reduced to 45% when the aggregate total of subloans approved, added to
disbursements for the investments of the participating institutions, shall have
reached US$52.5 million (one-half of the loan amount). To speed up disburse-
ments, a Special Account in an amount of US$8 million would be established in
NAFINSA. Disbursements for subloans or investments costing less than US$50,000
would be made against statements of expenditures. The loan would be disbursed
over six-and-one-half years, and the Closing Date would be December 31, 1991.
Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures incurred after April 1, 1985, is
included up to an amount of US$5 million.
Auditing
70.   The accounts of PECAN, FNM, CFM and CRM would be audited once yearly,
according to standards satisfactory to the Bank. The statements of expendi-
tures would be covered by these annual audits (Sections 6.01 (b) and (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement, 3.05 (b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement, and 3.01 (b)
and (c) of the draft CFM and CRM Project Agreements). The Special Account
would be audited separately, in accordance with terms satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 6.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement-
71.    Procurement procedures for goods and services of SMM enterprises would
follow those customary for industrial development finance operations and for
items costing more than US$100,000, three quotations would be required. Goods
and civil works packages procured by PECAM's participating institutions costing
in excess of US$1.5 million, or US$500,000 in the case of single items, would
be procured through international competitive bidding procedures, in accordance
with Bank guidelines, and local suppliers of goods would be entitled to a mar-
gin of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Below these limits, goods and civil works would be procured in accordance with
a          local procedures which are satisfactory.  Consultants financed from the loan
would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 2
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
72.    The proposed project would have a strong impact on Mexico's SMM sector.
Credit and services provided through the project would help some 200 SMN enter-
prises across the country, generating an incremental output valued at US$110



- 22 -
million per year, 40Z of which is expected to be in foreign exchange. Since it
takes about US$20,00  of investment to create a new job in the SKM sector, the
proposed investment outlays would cre&te 5,000-6,000 permanent jobs, mainly
aemon low-income groups, including some in the least developed regions. The
rate of return test--which is mandatory in the Operating Guidelines to be fol-
lowed under the project-would ensure that the project's development impact
materializes. In addition, the project would have a strong institution- baild-
Ing effect, and it would encourage commercial bank lending to SMNs in Mexico.
73.    The proposed project does not face any unusual risk.  However, two un-
certainties may materialize during project execution: first, commercial banks
may not step up lending to SMM enterprises, particularly for metallic minerals;
and second, some mineral prices, especially that of silver, may fall below cur-
rent levels, possibly postponing investments under the project. Given FNM8s
satisfactory experience recently with commercial banks and the adequate spreads
allowed 2nder the project, the probability of the first risk is low. In view
of the broad range of minerals mined by SMM enterprises in Mexico and the al-
ready record low metal prices which are unlikely to show further drastic drops,
the second risk is acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INTUMCENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between NAFINSA and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, the draft Proj-
ect Agreements between CFM and CIRM, and the Bank, and the report of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special condi-
tions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Three special
conditions for loan effectiveness would be that: (a) contractual arrangements
for passing on funds from NAFINSA to the implementing agencies, have been
executed (para. 48); and (b) the Action Plans of the four project implementing
agencies (para. 65) and (c) Operating Guidelines (para. 66), have been formally
adopted.
7s.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
o. gr^emDnt of the Bank.
PART VI-RE I HKENDATIONS
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 30, 1985



-23-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
':'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~"M 'I' .LIn COUii  llW)  
i,@aL      i,7oL1. msuau.          ma.aa^m   ca                  ap
Am, (6*DH3|lI q. *()                                                               -
-OTAL                              1972.5     1972.5   1972.5 
AORZIULIr                           *3.2       97e.a    979.3
Gw m  cai"  Cal)                       360.0      730.0   2270.0             215.6                    2345.3
m  a.uutin M CAIn
(CIORAf 0 OIL 1OlwUAn)              539.0      713.0   1340.               995.5                  uL2.s
NUUAUWO AM VrTL SYTBA27=
IoUrXUOU.uh2-um  (ZUS U5)    37073.0    5107.0  73122.0
on"rB           Ca o  TOTAL)        50.6        59.0      66.0              66.5
PO)UATION PIOJETtORU
POPULATION IV VAl 2000 (HItLL)                         109.4
STArZOMArI ropuAnmo (KELL)                             196.5
UoVULDTIOU WfitU.9
FOAULTtO  D-ITT
FR SQ. a5.                         16.6       25.9      36.1              3.67                      2.9
MR SQ. M. ALIR. LAN                37.7       52.4      72.6              92.4                   1s.9
FOIL&TKO MM sT3           CZ)
0-14 nRS                          45.6       46.5      44.3              39.9                     31.6
15ff4 us                           51.0       50.0      52.2              51.0                     61.1
65 MM ADM                           3.4        3.5       3.4               4.1                      7.1
1OPJIATIOII GROMT RATZ CZ)
TOTAL                               3.0        3.2       3.0               Z.4                      1.6
131Am                               4.6        4.7       4.2               3.6                      3.7
CRUDE Ram aE (MR TONS)               65.4       63.6      33.9              31.3                     23.4
cobs DEAT RATE (Pn  300s5)           12.2        9.7       7.1               *.1                      5.5
GROSs REPRODCTIONI RATE               3.3        3.2       2.2               2.e                      l.6
1A1LLU PLAINKNG
ACCEPTORS. AAL (TUS)                 ..       25.1   11650 1
SERS CZ OF HARRIED   R)              *-         *-      39.0   
INDEX OF rooD PRO. PIC CAPITA
(19W971-100)                         97.0      100.0    104.0              114.3                    114.5
MRI CAPITA SUPPI.! OF
CALORIE  (1 Or p1IENTS)           117.0      112.0    121.0              110.6                    L29.S
POINS (GS PER DAY)                 69.0       6s.0      74.0              67.3                     69.7
OF MIICH ASUA  AND PULJS         29.0       27.0      26.0 Id           34.1                     34.5
0111. (AeS 1-4) DUTR RATE            10.3        6.5       4.0               5.7                      5.2
LIFE ElECT. AT um11 (lEADS)          57.0       61.3      65.4              64.7                     67.4
INANT WI=. RATE (PER TIOS)          91.1        73.6     52.9               60.6                    54.2
ACMsSS TO SAFE HAUl (CPOP)
TOTAL                              23.5       49.0 is  56.0 1.65.6
URBAN                                ..        u.s    6S.4 W              7?.1
RURAL                                .. 71.07    5i.eoT                   46.2
ACCSS TO EBCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OP POLATION)
TOTAL                                ..       37.0 /a  3B.0 la            52.9
UDAN                                 ..       60.0 7   50.1 7m            67.0
AL                                   ..        4.0     13.0 7W            24.5
L
POPULATION MR ?ratICI              1830.0     1510.0        ..            1917.7                  1065.8
POP. FRI NJSN  PERSON              3650.0     1590.0        ..             15.6                    764
POP. M1 HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             590.0      970.0        ..             367.2                    326.3
_3*                               570.0 if  L170.0        .              411.5                    201.5
RULWL                               ..     1370.0        ..            2636.3
AISSIs PIM HOSPITAL MEM                ..         ..        ..              27.3                     20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF 300E1*0
TOTAL                               5.6        5.7
aRSA                                5.7        5.7
lULL                                5.2        5.6
ATERUA   0. OF PERSONSIROM
TOrAL                               2.9        2.5
URN                                 2.6        2.2
RURAL                               3.6        3.2
AcceSS To ELECT. (C OF CS)LIN)
TOML                                 ..       56.9
ua                                   ..       60.7        ..                ..                       .
UL                                   ..       27..



-24-                                                      AMNN  I
?-A I .                                           Page 2 of 5
I~IOSC     -ia~   unuuLk             1.DS!. 1U4  aM 
ADJWUD INRIUJERM! RA!Z0(TIUC                                                     INIMU
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n INOO sim Amsuwsss 
@LOS    -o ?                          We7Q  ANUC A2St  GS IB U  XSoR
-                 WV~~~~AJUSXD UIIJUXISN II^SS
FaMA11Yi  TOTAL                      80.0        104.0     121.0               105.4                     11.1
KAU                       52.0        l06.0     111.0              106.2                      105.5
FEMLE                     1710       1020       12 0.0             104.5                       s6.
SiOIIMAYTO MAL                       11.0         22.0      51.0               63.2                       56.1
KM&.LS                    L4.0         24.0      54.0               42.2                       66-9                         A
luwE                       1.0         17.0      43.0                44.5                       a.o,
VOCATIONAL (2 or SECom)                23.6         20.7      11.6               33.6                       21.6
PUPze1-T&ACNKZ RATIO
71528AY                              44.0         46.0      37.0               30.1                       25.1
UE0ONfLAY                            13.0         14.0      15.0               16.6                       20.5
ADULT LSTERAa  RATE (2)                62.4         74.2      82.7               79.5                       75.4
FAISENUN  CAMB/ITUSAND PO               12.-        24.1      41-3               46.0                       54.7
RADIO IRRCSII111TOUSAIX  pop           89.0        272.7    265.4                225.6                     164-9
TV UCKZWRUITROU5AND P0P                 17.2        56.5     106.1               107.2                     1232.
NVs?AIER (D0AILY GENERAL
INR3S") CIRDlUATZON
PE  TMOUISND tO"FULA!ZO              73.3           ..      64. 5              63.5                       96.3
CINA ANNUAL ATNDMECAnITA                9.S         4*.       '*.4                 2.6                       2.9
LABO FORCE
TOTALA.=  FORCE Z(TROV)              11191.0    14722.0  21398.0 
rAL3 Z 3   P(RCEST)                  15.2         17.4      20.0               23.2                       34.5
A*OICULTUR  (FERCEfT)                55.1         42.2      33.6               31.5                       40.7
INDUSTRI (PERCENT)                   19.5         22.9      23d8               23.9                       2353
PARTICIPATION RAE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2        25.6      29.3               32.Z                       42.3
MALE                                 51.1         47.4      46.7               49.3                       54.7
FImALE                                9.2         10.1      11.7               15.2                       31.0
ECNONIIC DCPENDRNCT RTIO                 1.6         1.7       1.6                 1.4                       0.9
INC DEDISRIBUTION
PERCENT OF RIUVATE IlNCtM
RECEVED UT
HIIflEST  E 0W EOE                      ..          ..        ..L..
EIGHEST 20S or IOUSEOILDS            61.1  h      60.7      37:.7 Id
LWIT 20S OF IOIS LDS                   3.4         3.3       2.9
LONESS 401 OP HOUSEHOLDS              9.5    h    9.9        9.9
ES2TIEDS    AUOLUE POVEITI INCOM
LZVZL (USS PER CAPITA)
0361                                    ..          ..        ..              288.2                         .
&URAL                                   ..          ..        ..              184.0
ESTIKATD ULATVE POERTY INCME
LMEL (C5  PER CAPITA)
URUA                                   ..           ..     471.0 /c           522. 
RIURL                                   ..          ..     471.O V            372.4
EITDLATED POP. 3BELO  AISOLOTE
POVETY INICONE LEVEL (Z)
URUAN                                  ..           ..        .                   ..
RUAl .. .. . ..
NOT AVAIXAE
NOS APPLICABLE
NOTE S
/a Tbe srou  averaqs for each indicator are populatlou-v.ibtad arithmtic _m. CDare  of countrie   eou  thi
Sndicator  deped. on availability of data and to not unifom.
b   Unless otbhrwe e noted. Dut, fDr 1950' refar to  ny yer  between 1959 and 1961; 'Data ftr 1970' beteen 1969 and
1971; and data for Neat Recent ZMt5uete" beten  190 and 1962.
/c   1979; /d 1977; /a Served frm water supply and  evw.;  /f 1962; /L 1976; lb 1963.
JNE* 1984



-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
33 :. -- m3 -.                               i
*33           .3.- 5333w33 33-31 
.933-3 -   a.1 --w= anw,   POW3-W .                           -x -J
-    '  -            W P          39 - -   P .133  33w   -             -4-
33-                -          -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.3                                                                3~~            - _. 3u-t -  -  9333- -' * 3 a. .mJ-_
1 l^    -33 P-   - lI,                     e -3- 3 w Mt J -
-.       Mm" 3 a- 3M-0,       33        333        313       33-
W- M - J. -W - 3-W   3-33 -   .                        33:   3 -  =
NWt.1 MANNANO        .-P.-  1-n u-  bg-to "IV         1- &1T4I- A3  3-3 1   -(3     h
mul ~     Mt.                                                                       3-31343  33-                   343-__d3   3   33_ _.
-t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N ou - fti19so-                                                                                             z - S
3*3-~l3- 3-131.33 s*33*1 - 3      1-M--Nw                                                   -     339 P  "  As P3-   .V- 33    p  O 3-4  am.   33933*3   4343 3- a
Po313  *13 A    - 13--- "NW-)                -   W1                                                             PsJ-                       -       1 -  -     - -
-|-^-     ~         ~        ~~~ -P. P-  -         -   rp     P    )-.9m   ~ A   l-P-   m"l
r- _ __ wr ; l 4 -~~~~64~~8 1_3-_3t13.1  i
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~p   *-l  I"1 -_ a  p-  _-  MO n`w    1.J. -e -Wv of-  I -- X
-J3 53 M,-  333 A.13 pM3--33 ,-               VT -j -  .3
M. swam  a 3-Put pw                                                     ~~~~~~-W-     W* P-no   a1 OWN  M       -     D           a 1id"11   N-43
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 01                                                                                        IM4 OIL     _ _*.*=1 __
M-*  *1N-     !l 'OWT  1     -.I             P   TMM     W I~-   WN
_ -; AM_pS -MW_a_w nW lr *-* .  -                                           J-  - MM    _| W  -  od    1--M Om
*_  _                                                                                                                        _D  a. _|., ~~~~a. a. 
_w-_- *_s  * _ -   *-       WWM '     3"       . --  1-                             .--qw S -n .,,,  _ F        -M--V  P"19t  =   9p       ;i
v@ -W-V m   J1-1                   -0 a--        w   -1t 1WR&O                 I         NW    "-w    INOMON "mm-.... __w  W_ a > 
m                  P.   *W  _ft   --    19_ 9- -w& -mg                            -1 'O"                         _                              -w
-*X-$1 NAa-N Ar a._*-* _IwT*_ Nw  -w-N M. _ -  11-M  Ps a _8_&&
a -_ 1 _ _ ebhA_ I :R__ 2 . 6r 1X-                                                       F4'2-*-"t1 -                                      '             ;
_-d                                 - J     id
.-  -3333331333 3333      W3 MA3 v-     -u3p3  los333353s.33l  "t    -d-MWM -    m-                                                           -
-aft$  3-31 _3             1  wou                          _                                     5?   93- 333 _N .  _   ._ ._     .3133-333   -3 33*_  _1-
t--  _.                                                                                  3,13  --9      Wg-   "     m       w    " - v.   P W-WI
- j.3   p  I p--(.3"    4431 8133  -333  .3-"     MNu--94333u P3333311                  Z3-3 .r-I                             --I--      33)3 33333  W -I 3-3 33
p-~~~~~ WIN_ 12 *"-a M -= b_
* W - ,               3 ,  -         t                                                            3       r*  -                 6 1t3 " =  t
-      -_331.            _                 -- -.-p t~ -1       _                                           _      m   3-   344    3-       e 5)33411         i
--Wd  _x-, All                      3      3                                    _  3  34         , _4 _     POW   3  3-.33 - -  _ft  141-t-"  r
_  3- .33331 3513.48 33 5*.         3                         sw-*_ 1- 3331-5. 3-= P   i a.-1M-                                         I -J A- B"
Awl3 _W a265P31 3 134 *
_     r..1 - P W66      p - ...-. .5 3u.q3--'- *- W                                                                      u   S4   IWd
v  .1- AL, itemi    .3wn            333 aEE.1= 3 .-          k     ta                        m    -    --a--"fi   I.33         p a- 3.333            3     33
.m.  BWA.s M-egu  -                  t-;-  -                                                        soeu  P  a 33 3 -14 *3 -3W 3         *3          3
bwt_0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AT                        -"W                                                     .Z  tob _PlPM    Mot_  .R;             - W_
_4_ . _ .   *333M       33      313-1- p33 _t_33 39 tw_           4                  .4 .3-_ 4  _3         1 __            ud *l W,                 3. 13
-W13    -3 f333  gm                                  333  43NA3                        3-1  33  -M  q~   I.."  a.             33                    *3u3.3 1
.3.331343333334 ~333-"a  '3E33  33333 - 413.) 3533 333  131.4                                                                           W-
I. 3u 35.-3 - SZ- --- --
P..9"1131 3-BiN   3-so 3POP33 43333" 3333 a. 3-1    M P 331333              1 39333 45333.34 Ia  --W.M ,,*    .               33       u--
0.1-  p-                 339 131  - W    3433   3331a    --                                                                             leur-..l 0-   I -..- a
u-3 133933333 ~~~~~~~..334 ..u33. 43333.3.331~~be)  .~. -                                                             O3a.3  -   m    1.. -r - 13339
-t                                                                                                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   u   931333*u- a   3  3-331 'W-3
Ms -                                      ~~~ ~~~~~-17 .  :433   ,SW    33us.u          MW3 AAN-10934  -. m
M=     -*-a-11o-3WN 4-1 43 PNA 31l                          33.3 M1   q N19  - IMNa   -.3  a..4           " 33.33  133     .-.j13
a. .3mm  3133 93~3 -  3.3 4- ...~  -  .-.u-   3.... -u133.31 -333- 1                         9S-   .-3PI
"W I  - TOWNS   433  1-MN  33333333 .4"339. 3131                          3=3-433-33 .33--3-W  -
3333933 gm 333- A3      , ...4mI-a-u   3-M -. 4539.    .P.3313-                                           -I3315  311- aM. .S..0 "S 4.333 g"4   u 4314I3    v33-5
_I       333lu   Alm    P               .u -ANOO .l 1  -s  -qWW u                            -      MNvquN.m m. 3           "- 1    33134 
*ua.3 NM-WdM   a4.3 3-133M o33                                                     &V333-33Im  3  343  13m . 343-  a 1m W             UU33 -3
333.3.33 43 M 3333 u3m  u33 333a3--W .1            1m3-                                                          I33   1533        33m- -
NNp_j P. -tM                   313333t3113-  .313W                                                          333-11 33o .   W- .3431I53533
u-.-3333-4343 -u- -Iewo  1433.1.3.3333    333-M                               3343 4.331 '"D31 -M      W- -w 31"   5% NNONNMI   .46            -
33931494.33.33333 a. 3-La 133   3333.3  -~   3-3 313333343 33933                          *3.4393 3- ~3.          33.03j5   j 33333 
333333333333            93  53M  a."= In331   mm-              3-                        3
33 Q5 39 1.4 N- AM         3393 33I1333*3 - 3.3111333 133   lajS. 3539                                                    33S9  331 3   '343I33)   3333A331
NAN3MP'll,-3 M3353 -1 3. 19333  333331   R533  .3(3TTa                                                                                       333313  39133
-WIMPI&3 19333  a. 33311.. .311 owsPitt  .343935                     14331   31-  M 31333    " SP3 J.33-  133,13-3  3533.3
.u1431-  31)341333   l31                     *333         3   13                    3  ---P%   MA33335  3. -331333*    ...I343  433333  3
ow O3 Na 333133                           334NNO P53  3-31313 33I-I 1- 333.1-33    3133-
33u-33 53333933 9333W  - 333T-1 93333113ftMI)   ov "t Pt" W   MV-343                                                                          I
135533in33 1.334 a  333-33333159 .3  -33(93- -33 3133                   3-.mm d PqN   WNIANO S.3 -13u33        .4.   - 35    d 3.31 33331133
333343-Il .3  333134 333333  3133  3  a             , 133_                       Nbu3'3  33333it-M- -333   '333-4d33- *.  
AN   -!-   -  - I I  -          - -   I                                                                      I--33333113  3 l  1333I  -  333 .Wm.333.3
0: &Nwlpl 0- ml   ~     ~     43 333  33-PA MIIM 3M33    ifA    "a331-31M5"   3  e MOP3   333
44P So d-W = =                      51m3343          3                           433135   -43333.4 '3 3- O 3333- 3
3% =.3-.MNI W"   um                      M  101 a   It 4.333    PM 33         3-i "   MP POW  All"3- -33131          was3 353   WM3.1NOo                   .w
'm       -e.s.o                                          33 m
33.314353333-931m   3    *333333-343  3353313   13



- 26 -
* ~  ~        ~       ~        ~       m  m-_  m mma                                                                    _l I
cit                                     mai    mW m      M."  En                                    steM-  M Msl   
in                       IN1.4-   mu tw sn   i am          sum m    hi   -Li  IRA    gumD  a,;a smit  954gULii   ISN  o*  I
u~13. Utos. Wm            _             Ium mm, a us-m
ipm   mW                          Le  arn11  No.3  3.n   a 3.12   m a mo   349  auo                 Los  IT&    m0   ma%            ?At    "    VAn  IL.
arm 01001                        4.I1, .4.   4631   LU6   UR  41.11  .8114.3  O1A8                   .             .     ..1    LUn  LI.1  'L1
aiin                             WMu   Mgn  sIn   i116.i  5.3  iMN.   SLIPUN 11.                     . ROU    1.35    Um           3.    "JO3  30L   16.3b
mm  earn.. n              9.5~~~~~~~N   11.511  4461   MA   a..   mu,l 3u.n   141  UP4     31.   1.   .0.5   SA0           9.4  314*   9.18  212
SIPS It.M                    NA   54.   3*   3.1  51611  ii.          MIS  u.s  41.             1O   I%*   L.5   4Am           1W$  3*,6  so."        6
IClMI  mm                        '4.i  4.2.   -kw   .1.1  9.123-1 .1.3  spa      .13  -LI 12NA   IL".              .     .m        .4.11  tW    ti   4.5
01= _t Wm                                                                                                                                     "%VW
331165                           31.3  21.31   3.29  l      am 6.3    .1  .810  U1.S  3189          LU    LUI  tIN    LU            21.321  46 L 19. 249
-     I Rem                      3_6   104   H." M          11A t .1.31  IL.11  3.4   43            Me   9.3   Lb    4w .3            I   U.N   21.3 W.n
exL~~9.   3                       wa   am   am   am   mm             a   an            iii   9.3   ' ea u.             it    ba    ma..  Tnsa
maim_ii.,  ILk   511                               Me   35   ILK   "L.2  I1s11  I,                LU    LoU  2.3   tu            12.21   LbImu   tat
1SU M IS                      251?  40.64m    1.3   1          1.u  1.1?    .  .2                .    Ia    L3bn
10101  limmt    Iaw It. mulNy  ts ar m m                              >     mm   IG  am
lU?9 iM                            41   W1E   M.           2Ul 1M?       35M To   9 Jl   1
_tm  a                              _   me  im    aw    M11  *IN    im    an   on
Wilt. 5_IJ 132    -    li   lblt   33                               lIb 22W      il -bt 43t*11
544911 1INt                       ri    212   13      -     11    K*m    M    OR   loo
OM3. iNk 6.93.                     su1t  am   mpa   tIe   vim   fIoA  M1   Rai   we
H     h at                       3111   44   PS IMs? m       M 1911 Elm           il  30111*
mims mum.IK                      4I   14ui SIN      [mm K    stix  m1i0  1m    31511   1*52b
WCt M" la "M  t.n                3.1   a1l  OL    I".  i    91    I.V1  6.3  PLO YZ.29
11     P Is 144  3.11 1D.3  It0 _                           0.29ll  ..1    3   U4 12 .1*
Sm ILES                           19-,  1.5I 13.   14.7 59.6  60.3  6.2
fltS  alt 3113 10 t  It In
_t as                         u.n   n.    as   n.   S.    tie   am                  l
01E?1 WiculI                     14.49  9.11  it?    9.  3Z2?   5.3G  N
mm eNCE                           4.23   LIN   LO3  -LR   46    1.31   tie
It M~                              I.2U   3    9.4I  1[a   tWJt   LU    1.            1
Wl  am                           -.   -li5  -1.    1.11  -31.4*   4.1  .lm
siem ve ns On lSll? lS l
1nitEs  -,.tm  ax                                                                                                     El OLi tt
=  mis -  aeu.                                                                                                           36
at m                               2' uaT tt101    25  v      W.
l S  SiUU            .   ~~~~~~~~~~4.10  5.61   S2.   US                                                  Ie
-St IliElt                         .? 5.1  140413    32.11                                                             11.0b
.J                              LO9  ILK  114.10 32.12                                                         i.e
JI1Is  mat Kmass,                   *    "    1.9?  min."  21244                                                       1.4
m.m M.   sits                 . I.e  mass  at..  aM                                                               am
isLIs Kr.                                1 tte  .u    LWA   IW                                                         IT.
I_aRlE U?             n            .   nJle.a2 n 1 Lt?  I.tS  ?lI                          t19
mamas                                   mmS  03.3  51.1  ML3                                                          UIL
3I.9  IL4.  12.3  3012t                                                       1.12
mmn                                 . 1 12.19 1401.30 2WL.  33113?
W_ n w_   Le  -  u   bs s. -- ama
mm*a atM                                                   nto  a                 a mm    36 aI121 tEK m114 _tC  PIe *?Q  11 
9u   "M                   Ka    a                 s11                    a    "W                         "a    no
Li    LU                 16.311 _3                   La L.3   LoI                                          t .1   nm
-miYt                             2.12   4.? W.1?   5.40                               0E"1 12.C ILtl   1..1  I 
MN=                               Lo?   Lis                 64.   41.41 L.                                9.41  11.32                     14    3.6
am                                a&   am                  3J   ULM                    Lo                 1.0*   9.91                            "L .e
i     AL0 -   sm-.
21~ ~  ~ Pim, nV   YK                                 V                                                          ...  om      mqus;s
moo mt sains U.: same                              tl am a
-~~ mam mu., Ut. muss
. 1110 .M   OWAI  Off   wsf   UHL
sooit V. WA*."IMV1111 .g?1   t F SIM
FA   . M            ir, u_                        sc.
am. a                                     w     "    l?v t?



- 27 -
aml   am    1m   aim   awn   'W        mu    a1    a
_F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  5 F 3
mm teau reslt,
caw; m m im  un        *           uati  em     -n   ano    mm    Mma   unm    e    mm
mm  011111D .311tJ2111' 2>         Ml   MO3M 3IY   M   XIN"                  J MIV
nmaMm                              -1W   -t1  -ma  -c   na               ue  aCes  nm   ma
UT MEE am                          41    tW    411   -M   -ama   0        -IMi -w9  1 1-aB
*n_rm  MMt                        -21  -112  -M      12   -11    -      -_am11-1  -1st  -ama
St IIX IUSIC                      *12-   -M    -M   -13    -WI    Mli  m1    41   0M
mmc mama aunts,                    am            o    Ia" 1          ma    ma    me    cx
Re    mm a  ma tM  m, ut           ab    Da   419    wa       u    21i    us    M    UN
"mmm                              m:   me   am    gt    MN2  1ma    we sn41a1
naur                                --    -    -m    -1a     Zn    111     3    3191   -m
mData slie   -aI  Ia-                    -te  -em    -I    1   -M    -mn -Wm    *a111
cam S                               a     0 a1M    10 _             -n-          _  _ _ _ 1
-  a lTs   a   s
air 0. *  LT. Law!
33                       4a~~~~~MA   33Lm  amL  ten.m1  n11.11  imie
MAm
win aTRA                         tat.a.m  as.  Me t,,e  W.3
019 IIILTU^T19.6DIL   93Z a.            .3  SiLS itt    30.1
_KM                               79.s11 11XW  VMS1   671.60 117L1C  ZI
1111,.31        U         L         o   0.0        M     2JT111.1   7.2D 31.1
W sit raiaCIL aIIITiTlm          110.46m 31r.*   mm   M1e Kate19.30 D2t
m3 mee KImeaM
vII 0Tnet 5mailma   cAl  se  1 1:1. am-fie zwa.m eam  eeLs aatLtS                                                          DUt  fT
w ur mam
Imamm  3mmx mD   I               male lMe1e 7n11.m0 n 11 MeAs, mak.1                                                      aML-I.m ase
aIrN  nlet       UD I   Im  a1            e l  I   .so n.11  mm.e ns.a                                                    m m. :1, a
_s sw  a   lr Ca NNsts                                                                                    -  we. 7i                    1n   11.39
. aWSEST S I O RaP   si          7.4t  team   J1.s   atm    a 14.35 MM                                 gmi ImnaE                     SW    LIs
a. l| rass min we S  ia           -    LU      .3   5.1    *3    .3*
am cai 1n.
&  amem U. aE                   gem    9.0   LiZ   s7.4   LS    4.21
_ZX L  L
a. m  5sWManNs e.ts .I 7.I tZ   inm Sc   Losa
oI              toe mam  1m t  M Ma   aaLIC staM  gma.
... o  maiUm  gmmyar M  aa   m to TMi..
= . _m UKrm  3 C, A     -  anSmt.
-1 21tM



- 28 ;
ANNEX II
Page 1 oP 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan                                                             Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                Purpose             Cancellations   bursed
58 loans fully disbursed                   3,495.2
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                 Agriculture              56.0          0.5
1643-5    1979      NAPINSA                 Small-scale Agri.        60.0          3.3
1706-5    1979      NAPINSA                 Irrigation               92.0         46.7
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Industry                175.0         31.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0         18.9
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Irrigation              160.0        147.9
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          1.5
1908      1981      NAFINSA                 Irrigation               23.0          4.6
1913      1981      BANOBRAS                Water Supply            125.0         72.7
1929      1981     BANOBRAS                 Railways                150.0         48.3
1945      1981     NAFINSA                  Rainfed Agriculture    264.6         104.3
1964      1981     BANPESCA                 Port Development         10.0          6.5
1990      1981     BANOBRAS                 Urban Development II   164.0         119.6
2042      1982      NAFINSA                 Technical Training       90.0          6.2
2043      1982      NAFINSA                 Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        111.9
2100      1982      NAPINSA                 Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0          61.7
2142      1982      NAPINSA                 Capital Goods
Industry              152.3       117.4
2154      1982      NAFINSA                 Pollution Control        60.0         49.4
2191      1983      NAFINSA                 San Fernando Agri.       48.4         41.8
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                Urban Engineering         9.2          6.3
2262      1983      NAFINSA                 Agri. Marketing         115.0         92.8
2281      1983      BANOBRAS                Third Water Supply      100.3         88.0
2325      1983     NAFINSA                  Third Small Medium
Industry              175.0       134.2
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT               Export Development      350.0        294.5
2428      1984      BANOBRAS                Highways                200.0        164.4
2450      1984      BANPESCA                Ports                    76.3         76.1
2454      1984      NAFINSA                 Agricultural Credit    300.0          97.6
TOTAL                                          6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank            1 365.7
Total now outstanding                           5,465.6
Amount sold                  92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                    0.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                       5,465.6
Total undisbursed                                            1,948.9
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed proJects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
Ansx II
Page 2 of 2
B.  Statement of IFC Xnvestments (as of March 31, 1985)
F1 secal                                                                        mi is llion
Year           ObliRor                     Type of Business           Loan  Baulty  Total
*         1958/59  Industrlas Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1               Industril Equipment           0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1    A.C. Engine Overhaul             0.5     -      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1             Twist Drills                  0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                            2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tuboas de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. 1I                       Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1         Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment           -       2.0    2.0
1970     MInera del Norte, S.A. /1        Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./1       Textiles                      12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                   /2      /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                       15.9    -      15"V
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Nexinox, S.A.                    Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper                10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                  19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cenentos Tolteca, S.A. 13        Cement                      168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Casino Re&l Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                          -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -           18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                   25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. 13                       Flat Glass                  114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               Mining                      110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                  59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  13                      Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                   Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility           Industrial Equlpment        100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                        Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
*         1985     Primex 13                                                     16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                     705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                   540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                           164.2   26.1  190.3
-                - 
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                  150.9    6.5  157.4
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
-3    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO: SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:                 8 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                           PECAM
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:                July 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                November 1984
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                    April 26, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  NAFINSA to pass on loan funds, according to contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank; execution of such arrangements would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 48);
(b)  CFM to:  (i) charge toll rates in RBPs financed with loan funds to
generate, as of the third year of operation, a rate of return on
fixed assets of not less than the applicable interest rate on
subloans to small-scale miners; and (ii) furnish to the Bank for
comments the recommendations of a study and proposed action on
tolling rates of RBPs in CFM's Action Plan, and subsequently improve
the rates (para. 55);
(c)  Formal adoption of Operating Guidelines by PECAM (para. 66), and
approval by PECAM, CFM, FNM and CRM of their respective Action Plans
(para. 65) would be conditions of effectiveness; and
(d)  Interest rates to be charged for beneficiaries to comply with the
terms of the General Interest Rate Agreement between the Government
and the Bank (para. 68).



8  %  k                    ~~~~~~~~~\ UNITED STATES oF AMEAICA
U A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
MEXICO
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y .~d -I
SW-    . *r_
L-= m mu a. uI
-- rn 'i                                                                                              EUAA h
a~.anaa+ nflkm



