Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25265
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23974; IDA-27400; IDA-27401; TF-20011; TF-20013; TF-20718)
ON
TWO CREDITS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$164.1 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
December 26, 2002
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa, AFTR1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit =  Birr
US$ 1 =   6.29 (1995)
6.36 (1996)
6.71 (1997)
7.12 (1998)
7.95 (1999)
8.22 (2000)
8.44 (2001)
8.51 (2002)
FISCAL YEAR
8 July to 7 July
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AISCO                Agricultural Input Supply Corporation
CBE                  Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CIF                  Cost, Insurance and Freight
DAP                  Di-Ammonium Phosphate
EARO                 Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization
EPA                  Environmental Protection Agency
EQSA                 Ethiopia Quality and Standards Authority
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
ICU                  Input Coordination Unit
IDA                  International Development Association
NBE                  National Bank of Ethiopia
NBF                  Non-Bank Financed
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NFIA                 National Fertilizer Industry Agency
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
SNNP                 Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples
TF                   Trust Fund
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager/Director:  Karen M. Brooks
Task Team LeaderFTask Manager:    Eustacius N. Betubiza



ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               30
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR                                                  31






Project ID: P000753                                     Project Name: National Fertilizer Sector Project
Team Leader: Eustacius N. Betubiza                      TL Unit: AFTR1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: December 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: National Fertilizer Sector Project           L/C/TF Number. TF-23974; IDA-27400;
IDA-27401; TF-2001 1;
TF-20013; TF-20718
Country/Department: ETHIOPIA                                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Petrochemicals and fertilizers (92%); Agncultural
extension and research (5%); Central government
administration (3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/31/1991                            Effective: 12/28/1995        02/16/1996
Appraisal.  06/05/1993                              MTR: 01/15/1998           09/22/1998
Approval: 06/13/1995                              Closing: 12/30/2000         06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/NATIONAL FERTILIZER INDUSTRY AGENCY
Other Partners:  Ethiopia Quality and Standards Authonty, National Soils Laboratory,
Environmental Protection Agency
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Edward Jaycox
Country Manager.'   Ishac Diwan                               Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:      Karen M. Brooks                          Sushrna Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:  Eustacius N. Betubiza                    Amar Jit S. Sodhi
ICR Primary Author:  Eustacius N. Betubiza
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Ldkely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negliglble)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objective was to help achieve accelerated and sustainable growth in agricultural production
and productivity with a view to improving food security and reducing poverty. The project was expected to
achieve this objective by: (a) supporting policy reforms to create an enabling environment for the growth of
a competitive fertilizer sector; (b) supporting institutional strengthening and human resource development;
(c) promoting increased, efficient and environmentally safe fertilizer use by an increasing number of
farmers; (d) addressing fertilizer supply-side constraints; and (e) promoting initiatives to maintain and
improve the long-term fertility of Ethiopian soils and ensuring environmental conservation.
Formulated in the wake of a series of devastating famines and the growing dependency on food aid, the
project's objective to achieve accelerated and sustainable growth in agricultural output and productivity
was timely and pertinent. The activities supported were appropriate: e.g., the policy reforms sought to
correct the distortions and monopolistic structures created under the previous Marxist regime; the capacity
building focus recognized the new skill requirements required to accomplish the intended change in applied
agricultural technology; fertilizer promotion and increased fertilizer supply would spread more widely the
expected benefits over a wider cross-section of the rural population; sustainability of the expected gains
would be assured by accomplishing the changes in policies and institutions to create a dynamic private
market in fertilizer and by adoption of long-term soil fertility management and appropriate handling of
fertilizer. Although comprehensive in its approach, the project maintained its focus on a few strategic
areas, thus making it easy to implement by the country's fledgling institutions, the number of which was
kept to a minimum to maximize coordination. The project's objectives were consistent with the new
Government's market-oriented economic policy of 1991, its equally-market oriented national fertilizer
policy of 1993, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
Although the project's objectives were consistent with the Government's policy goals, features of project
design served to dilute its effectiveness in achieving the objectives, particularly with regard to
sustainability. The bulk of the financing under the project was for importation of fertilizer, and the
retention of a separate mechanism for allocating foreign exchange under the project did not serve to
integrate the fertilizer sector more fully into a gradually liberalizing market economy. Moreover, key
elements of the institutional agenda affecting sustainability of fertilizer use, such as management of
agricultural credit and the role of the extension service, were not articulated as part of the program
supported by the project, even though the project generated very substantial local currency equivalent of the
financing for fertilizer.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
Component I: Capacity Building (US$5.87 million). This component would support institutional
strengthening (US$2.01 million) and human resource development (US$3.86 million). Institutional
strengthening of fertilizer-related institutions (the newly created National Fertilizer Industry Agency,
Ministry of Agriculture, National Soils Service, and Ethiopia Quality and Standards Authority) would
consist of office and other equipment, machinery, vehicles, and civil works. It would also support
management information/accounting systems for the National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA). Human
- 2 -



resource development of various stakeholders in bio-fertilizers, soil testing and fertility management,
fertilizer supply chain and quality control management, biogas technology, and cooperative management
was to be achieved through short-term technical assistance, in-country training programs and overseas
study tours and fellowships.
Component II: Fertilizer Demand and Supply (US$216.25 million). This component would finance
fertilizer use promotion (US$ 2.03 million) and fertilizer supply management (US$ 214.22 million).
Efficient, balanced and greater nutrient use by farmers would be promoted through a number of initiatives
including: (i) a sharper focus by, and training to, the agricultural extension staff on fertilizer and soil
management related activities; (ii) providing promotional fertilizer mini kits to selected farmers; (iii)
organizing annual stakeholder workshops to review experiences and strategize for the future; and (iv)
widening and deepening the fertilizer retail network through dealer training and cooperative promotion.
Under the fertilizer supply management sub-component, mechanisms would be put in place to ensure
adequate and timely importation of fertilizer. The Intemational Development Association (IDA) would also
finance about two-thirds of projected incremental fertilizer imports during the project's life.
Component III: Soil Fertility Management and Environment Conservation (US$8.30 million).
Activities would include: (i) supporting a number of initiatives to help Ethiopia develop, over the medium
to long term, indigenous nutrient resources, both organic and inorganic; (ii) installing 10,000 family size
biogas units in rural areas; (iii) developing biofertilizers for fixation of atmospheric nitrogen on
leguminous crops; (iv) establishing 8 simple soil testing field laboratories to assist individual farmers; (v)
supporting environmental monitoring to detect possible deleterious effects of fertilizer use, and (vi)
supporting pilot initiatives to develop or more efficiently utilize indigenous resources for the supply of
nutrients.
Component IV: Fertilizer Policy Reform. The project provided for: (i) the decontrol of fertilizer retail
prices by December 31, 1996, wholesale prices by December 31, 1997, and distributor prices by
September 30, 1998; (ii) the elimination of across-the-board fertilizer price subsidies by September 30,
1996 and targeted fertilizer subsidies, if introduced, by September 30, 1998; (iii) the promulgation of a
fertilizer quality control law and its enforcement; (iv) institutional mechanisms to ensure that both the
public and the private sector importers would have equal access to IDA and Government funds for
importing fertilizers; and (v) a level playing field between fertilizer distributors by eliminating special
access to Government owned warehouses by the state-owned Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
(AISCO).
The four components were intended to achieve the project objectives, with the policy changes designed to
lay a foundation for a competitive system responsive to market signals; a comprehensive capacity building
program for all levels of the fertilizer industry and its associated institutions; a menu of natural resource
management initiatives; and financial resources sufficient to meet the expected increase in fertilizer
demand. These planned activities were manageable by the implementing partners, which themselves were
beneficiaries of the capacity building program to address their own managerial and institutional deficiencies
assessed during project preparation, including management information and accounting systems. Project
design drew heavily from past experiences from Ethiopia as well as elsewhere in Africa and Asia.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not formally revised during implementation, except for the following slight
modifications: (i) the small biogas promotion activity, the detailed feasibility of which was completed after
project appraisal, was dropped since the unit cost tumed out to be beyond the average farmer's reach; (ii)
- 3 -



instead of continuing to run them separately, the planned promotional mini-kit activities were later
subsumed into the Government's newly developed massive extension intervention program, for which the
project continued to provide the planned support; and (iii) the number of field/rural soil testing laboratories
was increased from 8 to 17 as the need for additional such laboratories in different parts of the country
became evident. These were minor revisions that did not amount to a restructuring.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project design was generally consistent with prevailing thinking about interventions appropriate for
economies in transition at the time, and preparation for implementation was good. The project supported
policy and institutional reforms and provided financing for incremental imports within a design simple
enough to facilitate good implementation. As a consequence quality at entry is judged to have been
satisfactory.  The project development objective was fully consistent with the government's rural
development strategy as well as the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Project content and design evolved
from a highly participatory process buttressed on a wealth of analytical work, and characterized by high
level Government involvement. It was also consistent with Bank safeguard policies.
Project assessment of risks was satisfactory. Two developments that subsequently affected the growth of a
network of private fertilizer retailers and wholesalers in the countryside were not foreseen. One was the
emergence of party affiliated, although technically private, regional trading houses engaged in fertilizer
trade and other sectors, which have occasionally attracted allegations of privileged market access and other
uncompetitive behavior. The second was the launching of an extension intervention program, through
which public extension officers or staff of cooperatives delivered physical inputs (seeds and fertilizers) to
the participating farmers. This brought the government into the business of input distribution, contrary to
its own national fertilizer policy. This program expanded greatly in later project years, at the same time
that the number of private retailers dropped sharply. Institutional innovations taken outside the purview of
the project thus undercut one of the central objectives of the project; i.e., the development of a resilient and
private trade in fertilizer.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project supported many positive interventions that contributed to agricultural growth and improved
management of the fertilizer sector. In the present formal review of project performnance, however, it must
be judged literally according to the stated objectives included in the project documents and development
credit agreement. Judged in this light, the project did not achieve its objectives, since the institutional
developments that would have underpinned sustainable growth in more intensive agriculture, and
specifically the creation of a viable private fertilizer sector, cannot be judged to have taken place. For this
reason the achievement of objectives of the project must be judged to have been unsatisfactory, despite the
positive accomplishments. Annual fertilizer use increased (from 247,000 tons in 1995 to 298,000 in 2000)
and this increase contributed to increased food production, particularly in moisture-reliable areas of the
country. According to Government statistics, fertilized area increased by 1 million hectares between 1995
and 2000. The incremental yield estimate of 0.60 tons/hectare on fertilized land was more than double the
conservative 0.32 tons/hectare appraisal projection.  Consequently, cumulative incremental grain
production reached 3.0 million tons, over and above the appraisal projection of 2.6 million tons. Although
the increment is positive and laudable, not all can be attributed to the interventions of the project, and the
sustainability of this gain is not yet assured.
Government figures suggest that the proportion of the population experiencing food poverty declined from
-4 -



47 percent in 1995/96 to 42 percent in 1999/2000, but the situation is likely to have worsened in the
difficult present year. The reevaluated net present value of the project is positive and substantial, and the
policy reforns and institutional development carried out under the project were, and continue to be,
important elements in the country assistance and poverty reduction strategies. However, although all
agreed market reforms were fully implemented, a new set of market distorting phenomena emerged and
prevailed throughout project implementation.  These hindered the establishment and growth of a
competitive fertilizer market, and countered the measures supported under the project. These included the
manner in which the rapidly growing input credit and agricultural extension programs were implemented
and uncompetitive tendencies in the input distribution market (discussed in later sections). Consequently,
the sustainability of the project's outcome is not assured.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Capacity Building
Institutional Strengthening. This activity's execution was satisfactory. The National Fertilizer Industry
Agency, several departments of the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Soil Research Center, the
Ethiopian Quality and Standards Authority (EQSA) and regional agricultural and cooperative bureaus
were provided with critically needed vehicles, motor cycles, bicycles and office equipment.
Human Resource Development. Similarly, this activity was satisfactorily implemented. These same
institutions' human resource capacity, and that of other stakeholders (including scientists, policy makers,
and fertilizer importers and marketers), was strengthened through technical assistance, study tours, as well
as external and local training. Based on needs assessments, 84 percent of the projected 89 staff months of
technical assistance was found necessary, and was therefore provided. Similarly, 5 of the 8 planned study
tours were deemed adequate and were thus undertaken. A total of 25 participants were sent to eight
countries under 16 extemal training programs, and 151 local training programs were conducted. In
addition to focused human resource development, the National Fertilizer Industry Agency, a nascent
institution at the beginning of the project, received significant support by way of procurement and financial
management systems and manuals, and streamlined work procedures. Cumulatively, a total of 6,153
participants were trained in 13 disciplines. According to a study of institutional aspects in 2001, the
beneficiaries are reported to have found these programs useful, pertinent and practical (see Section 4.5 for
Institutional Development Impact).
Component 2: Fertilizer Demand and Supply
This component carried the substantial share of financing under the project and sought to finance imports
and to support growth of sustainable institutions on the supply and demand sides of the fertilizer sector.
Overall, this component's execution must be judged to have been unsatisfactory, even though fertilizer
importation took place as planned. On the one hand, major gains were registered in, among other things: (i)
providing the planned support to the agricultural extension service; (ii) ensuring adequate and timely
availability of fertilizer to meet the growing demand, (iii) institutionalizing the fertilizer sector's dialogue,
coordination and monitoring mechanisms; and (iv) strengthening the reenergized cooperative movement. On
the other hand, the: (i) multi-channel approach to fertilizer marketing as envisaged under the project only
partially materialized; (ii) extension service's increased involvement in facilitating input delivery and credit
administration distracted them from their advisory function; (iii) uncompetitive tendencies in fertilizer
distribution were not fully resolved; and (iv) the concentration of the industry appears to have increased,
with resulting reduction in competition and decrease in the number of private retailers.
- 5 -



(a) Fertilizer Promotion Sub-Component
Agricultural Extension. The project successfully provided the planned support to regional extension
activities for additional mobility and training. The extension agents were trained in the technical aspects of
fertilizer use and soil fertility maintenance. The project had envisaged a catalytic approach whereby these
extension agents would provide small promotional fertilizer mini-kits to selected fanners (some 75,000 in
total) while also providing advisory services to many more farmers countrywide in order accelerate the
adoption and/or more balanced use of fertilizer. In areas already using fertilizer (which, at the time, was
predominantly Di-Ammonium Phosphate), the mini-kits would consist of a 5 kg bag of urea, sufficient for a
0.1 hectare demonstration plot, in order to promote balanced nutrient use (for a total of 50,000 farmers
over the project's life). In war-affected areas, where fertilizer use was still relatively low, a 10 kg bag of
Di-Ammonium Phosphate, and later a 5 kg bag of urea, the combination of which was also sufficient for a
0.1 hectare demonstration plot, would be provided to a total of 25,000 farmers over the life of the project.
Except for providing the promotional mini-kits (whose total weight over the whole project period was less
than 1 percent of total annual fertilizer consumption), the extension service was not meant to get involved
in the distribution of fertilizer at all, which was expected to be sold to farmers by private retailers and
cooperatives.
However, almost concurrently with the project's effectiveness, Government launched a new national
agricultural extension intervention program in which efficient and adequate fertilizer use was a key
component of the technology package to be provided to farmers in different agro-ecological situations.
Inspired by, and modeled along the lines of, the Sasakawa-Global 2000 program, Government's extension
intervention program set the size of the demonstration plots at 0.5 hectares (on which the fertilizer used
would be fully paid for by the farmers under credit arranged through the program), and significantly
increased the number of demonstrations. The target number of on-farm demonstrations by extension staff
rapidly increased from some 32,000 in 1995 to about three million in the year 2000. This sharp increase in
numbers meant a change in the character of the 'demonstration' program; it virtually became a
'production' program by 1998. However, Government still retained the program's original feature of
extension agents making available the needed inputs to each participating farmer. Thus, huge quantities of
fertilizer started being distributed by the extension service. As the program expanded, technology was
promoted in areas of high potential, where returns were good, and in areas of lower potential, where the
economics of intensive production were questionable, and participating farmers did not realize net benefits
on a regular basis.
At the same time, the program's original requirement that every farmer must graduate in two years was, by
and large, not respected, and the work load of extension agents in assessing input needs, and organizing
their supply kept growing. As a result, extension agents started spending between 50 to 70 percent of their
time in fertilizer related activities, organizing and distributing inputs, either directly or through the
cooperatives, and assisting woreda (district) administrations in the disbursement and recovery of input
credit. The deleterious effects of this development on the all-important advisory function of the extension
agents have now been recognized and Government has made a policy decision of progressively withdrawing
its agents from input distribution management in a non-disruptive manner. For example, agricultural
extension service's share of the fertilizer distribution market has been gradually shrinking (currently at 34
percent) in favor of cooperatives (49 percent).
Annual Fertilizer Stakeholder Workshop. An annual, three-day national fertilizer workshop that brings
together all major stakeholders (donors, fertilizer importers and distributors, non-governmental
organizations, federal and regional governments, research establishments) was successfully institutionalized
under the project. These well-prepared and well-perceived workshops provided an excellent opportunity to
- 6 -



take complete stock of the progress made and problems encountered in the preceding crop year, and identify
possible corrective actions needed to move the fertilizer industry forward, as well as review fertilizer
demand estimates for the coming year. Six such workshops have been held so far. Lately, some regional
administrations hold their own stakeholders workshops prior to participating in the national workshop. The
stakeholder workshops provide significant benefits to the industry, but the estimates of demand emanating
from the process appear to be on the high side. Had the objectives of deepening development of a
competitive industry been achieved, the tendency toward high estimates of demand might have been
tempered by commercial considerations of the private market.
Widening/deepening the retail network. A total of 20 training programs were successfully organized in
which 438 dealers participated. In addition, 60 training programs were organized for 4097 cooperative
society staff and their office bearers as well as staff of the cooperative promotion departments in the
regions.
Fertilizer consumption increased from approximately 247,000 tons in 1995 to 290,000 in 1999, peaked in
298,000 tons in 2000 but fell to 280,000 tons in 2001, and further down to 232,000 tons in 2002. Even at
its peak, fertilizer consumption fell short of the 360,000 tons annual consumption projected for 1999. The
underlying causes include unfavorable developments in the input and credit distribution systems (discussed
further in the next section), insufficient precipitation in some years (e.g., 1997, and 2000 and the
devastating 2002 drought), diversion of extension staff time from advisory services and training to input
and credit management activities, and most recently, very low cereal prices. In addition, fertilizer
consumption was also affected by the very low use of improved seed, which could have diminished the
benefits from, and therefore the demand for, fertilizer (a mere 35 percent of fertilizer users use improved
seed).
(b) Fertilizer Supply Management
Overall, the execution of this sub-component was only partially successful. On the one hand, NFIA carried
out a commendable job coordinating the fertilizer sector: judiciously managing donor and government funds
to ensure adequate fertilizer supply, and coordinating procurement to ensure timely delivery. As a result,
the country never suffered fertilizer shortages during the project's life. According to a 2001 survey,
farmers complaining of untimely fertilizer delivery at the farm level had dropped to 30 percent, down from
67 - 81 percent reported in the 1995 survey. NFIA's initiatives for minimizing these delays including
standardizing bidding documents, providing support in procurement planning, and training for
woreda/zonal/cooperative officials are already under way. On the other hand, however, the task of
developing a competitive fertilizer importation and distribution system faced major challenges. For the
importation market segment, these included: (i) access to import credit, (ii) limitations to promoting a
vibrant fertilizer importation system in an environment of administered foreign exchange allocation, and
(iii) excessive carryover stocks. For the distribution market segment, they included: (i) externalities of the
Government's input credit administration and input distribution programs, and (ii) imperfections in the
fertilizer distribution market.
Fertilizer Importation System
Fertilizer importation, hitherto a government monopoly, was liberalized in 1992, and the first private
importer entered the scene in 1993. In order to encourage more importers, the project provided for equal
access to foreign exchange for all fertilizer importers. The National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) introduced a
competitive process under which it invites bids for the importation of the needed fertilizer, generally in lots
of 25,000 tons each, and all registered importers, who in turn obtain quotes from international suppliers,
-7-



are eligible to file bids. Foreign exchange for that particular lot is then allocated to the finm quoting the
lowest CIF price. Under this arrangement, the number of registered importers had risen to six, with their
respective market share varying from year to year. Between 1996 and 2001, AISCO's aggregate market
share averaged 52 percent, the regional trading houses a combined 30 percent, and purely private firms 20
percent. Lately, however, the number of active importers is down to two: one parastatal and one regional
trading house. This is attributed to several factors, including: (i) difficulties in securing import credit; (ii)
limitations of promoting competition in fertilizer importation in an environment of restricted foreign
exchange allocation; (iii) growing fertilizer demand uncertainties resulting in large and costly carryover
stocks. There are also allegations by importers of an uneven playing field in the fertilizer distribution
segment of the market, since importers are also distributors (this is discussed in the next section on
"Fertilizer Wholesale and Retail").
Access to Import Credit. Importing one ship load of fertilizers requires a very large capital outlay (US$ 4
- 7 million equivalent, including handling and distribution costs). Moreover, banking requirements by the
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE, the dominant bank in the country) are considered stringent. For
example, the amount of down payment in local currency required before issuing a letter of credit and the
collateral requirements thereof, are perceived as excessively high and have varied from importer to importer
(some requested to pay as high as 100 percent and others as low as 30 percent), probably due to differences
in the perceived risk. Nevertheless, they have attracted charges of discrimination. The Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia has expressed openness to examine ways of making fertilizer importation less financially
burdensome to importers through a system whereby fertilizer in bonded warehouses would be treated as
collateral.
Lengthy Procurement and Rigid Foreign Exchange Allocation Processes. First, because of lengthy
procurement approval processes under donor-financed imports, the time between procurement initiation and
final fertilizer delivery at retail outlets was very high, estimated at 220 days. Direct purchase of foreign
exchange outside an administered system could result in reducing this time less than 100 days. Since
importers have to commit to a price well in advance of the actual purchase in a very volatile market,
suppliers quote higher prices to protect themselves, a cost that is eventually bom by consumers in higher
retail prices. Second, because of the administered foreign exchange allocation process, importers are
unable to swiftly enter the highly volatile world fertilizer market to buy when prices are favorable. Third,
with quantities and product type administratively determined, importers cannot decide on the optimal
quantities and product mix in response to market signals. Fourth, an importer who fails to win any bid in a
single year (albeit by narrow margins) can suffer very heavy losses, because of idle fixed investments in
infrastructure and staff. Importers are also constrained in developing longer term business and credit
relationships with foreign suppliers. Fifth, two importers can end up (and they have indeed ended up) with
one product type each and thus become virtual monopolists for country-wide distribution.
Excessive Carryover Stocks. The fertilizer importation system has been beset by costly, unsold stocks due
to: (a) the need for at least 20 percent pipeline stocks normally considered reasonable for a landlocked
country; (b) the simmering border conflict and eventual two year war with a neighbor, which favored
stockpiling of a strategic commodity; (c) persistent over-estimation of fertilizer demand; (d) eagemess to
utilize bilateral donor funds which are generally available on an annual basis; and (e) lower than
anticipated demand due to weather aberrations and poor output prices. In addition, the process of
importation is highly time consuming, with significant last minute adjustments impractical. It is also a
politically sensitive commodity, where its shortage can generate serious resentment in rural areas. Between
1996 and 2000, carryover stocks averaged 36 percent of imports, ranging from 26 to 42 percent. At
10.5% interest on inventory credit, such stocks could have cost importers an estimated US$ 24 million in
interest charges alone (without adding storage and handling charges), making fertilizer importation an
- 8-



extremely risky and costly business. This year's stocks might cost some US$ 3.5 million in interest
charges. Such stocks cause liquidity problems for the importer (particularly the smaller, struggling ones),
and result in higher retail prices, when these costs are finally incorporated into the retail price.
Fertilizer Wholesale and Retail System
A system of private fertilizer wholesalers and retailers, which was initially developed in 1992 and was
endorsed by the National Fertilizer Policy (1993) grew to some 67 private wholesalers and over 2300
retailers by 1996. However, this system began to falter and the number started to decline (currently around
100) largely due to two major Government initiatives, the input credit and the extension intervention
programs. These initiatives were bom out of Government's concerted effort to radically improve the
country's food security in the face of chronic food shortfalls, by enabling the largest number of farmers
possible to use fertilizers, thus rapidly to increase agricultural productivity. These two programs, which
evolved to their present form well after the project had been negotiated, exercised a profound influence on
the developments in the fertilizer sector. Other factors include the rise of party affiliated trading houses.
The Input Credit Program. This initiative sought to make fertilizer credit available to farmers countrywide
in the belief that this would trigger widespread fertilizer use. The credit is provided by the Commercial
Bank of Ethiopia (about US$ 60 million per year, on average). The regional governments, which are
technically the borrowers, and which in turn relend the money to farmers facilitated by their woreda
(mainly agricultural) offices do so at their own risk, and are responsible for credit approval, disbursement
and recovery. The credit is dispensed to farmers only in kind and never in cash, and administered
exclusively through cooperatives and the extension intervention program. In the face of ready availability
of credit, many farmers simply substituted cash purchases with credit purchases, and as cash sales
plummeted, so did the fortunes of private retailers, whose market share fell from 68 percent in 1993 to 11
percent in 2000. With the passage of time, the inadequacies of the system began to manifest themselves.
Credit recoveries, despite the heavy mobilization of woreda staff at the cost of their normal work, were
beginning to fall and regional governments were obliged to make good on the un-recovered portion from
their budgets. Cumulative losses over the past three years are estimated to be about 234.3 million Birr,
equivalent of US$ 28 million. This figure does not include the cost of collection incurred by regions, which
is thought to exceed proceeds from the 2.5% interest margin retained by regions on CBE loans. Up to 2000,
loan recovery stood at 85%.  The unsustainability of this approach is now fully recognized, and
Government is exploring other possible options.
Extension Intervention Program. The emergence of the extension intervention program as a major player
in fertilizer distribution, and how it supplanted private retailers, was discussed above. To the extent that
private retailers could have complemented the nascent cooperative movement, particularly by serving areas
that are not covered by these institutions, and by offering greater flexibility to farmers in well served areas
with regard to timing, adjusting quantities and product mix as need arose, their marginalization
considerably undercut the development of a competitive marketing network.
The Rise of Regional Trading Houses and Charges of Unfair Competition. As noted above, the mid
1990s saw the emergence of largely regionally based, general purpose trading houses that are thought to
have close links with the governing political parties. There have been some allegations of privileged market
access reportedly enjoyed by these trading houses. This has been compounded by the fact that different
regions employ different fertilizer procurement methods: some directly negotiating with the supplier(s) of
their choice, with others using public tenders. There are indications that retail prices are higher by some 70
Birrf/ton in uncompetitive markets.
-9-



Image Problem. There is a pervasive feeling among some farmers that private retailers are less reliable,
fair and with a penchant for quality adulteration than public/para public distribution agencies. In a 2001
survey, 42 percent of the farmers preferred cooperatives and public sources to private retailers, only
marginally below the 1994 survey results.
Potential Impact on Vulnerability. There is anecdotal evidence that in moisture stressed areas, increased
fertilizer use could increase farmers' financial vulnerability in the event of adverse weather. In a recent
survey, 10 percent of the respondents indicated that they had had to sell some of their livestock to repay
fertilizer loans. Whereas the survey did not associate this with marginal areas, there is need to pay greater
attention to the potential for increased destitution in such areas.
Component 3: Soil Fertlity Management and Environment Conservation
This component's implementation was clearly satisfactory: production of indigenous industrial organic
fertilizer came on stream, rizhobium based biofertilizer is on the verge of commercial production; soil
testing laboratories for use by individual farmers were put in place; and water quality monitoring was
institutionalized.
Developing Indigenous Nutrient Resources. With the favorable environment created under the project, a
local firm, National Fertilizer Manufacturing (Pvt) Ltd., was established in 1998 to produce organic
fertilizers from animal bones and other wastes. The firm's initial production of 150 tons to test the market
acceptance of the product, through trials on various (mostly cash) crops, has given good results. It has an
installed capacity of 10,000 tons and is well on its way to full commercial production. According to the
firm's management, there is adequate demand for this product, particularly from specialty crop producers
like coffee, tea and vegetables.
Biogas Development. As indicated earlier, this sub-component was dropped as the total cost, upon
completion of the feasibility study, was considered unaffordable by an average farmer.
Biofertilizer. The program has successfully overcome initial hurdles in strain selection, procurement of
carrier material, and inoculant production. Field tests began in 1998 and are ongoing at more than 37 sites.
Simultaneously, a program of demonstrations is also being implemented at 314 sites. Adequate knowledge,
necessary for a commercial operation, has been gathered and the national laboratory is poised to launch
pilot commercial production. The current challenge is to attract a private entrepreneur in this endeavor.
Guidelines for investors have been finalized.
Soil Testing Laboratories. All the 17 laboratories have been completed and have been staffed by regional
governments who have also started providing budget support. The challenge is to deeply involve the
extension service in the command area of each laboratory, and organize to get a steady stream of soil
samples for testing and interpretation. These soil tests should also result in a database to help pursue
correlation studies and prepare soil maps.
Environmental Protection. Since 1998, monitoring to detect possible deleterious effects of fertilizer use on
soil and water bodies is carried out by the Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) at 36 sites. The
findings to date indicate that all values are far below the maximnum tolerable limits set by the World Health
Organization. The EPA will create and maintain a database on the impact of fertilizers.
Other Pilot Initiatives. The project has also done some work on integrated plant nutrient management
systems using both organic and inorganic nutrients. Workshops and training were conducted, and 38 trial
- 10 -



sites have been established in various parts of the country. Further support is still needed in this area.
Component 4: Fertilizer Policy Reforms
On the whole, this component is rated unsatisfactory. All agreed policy reforms were fully carried out, but
the objective of the reforms; i.e., creation of a functioning and competitive industry, was not accomplished.
Fertilizer pricing was totally liberalized, and fertilizer subsidies abolished.  A fertilizer trade and
manufacturing proclamation was issued in 1998, which set fertilizer standards and enabled the government
to start enforcement of fertilizer quality standards from port to retail. Further, in order not to have an
unfair advantage over its competitors, the government parastatal AISCO withdrew from marketing centers
supported by Ministry of Agriculture staff, and ceased to have preferential access to the ministry's
warehouses. Finally, foreign exchange for fertilizer importation was allocated amongst importers in a fair
and transparent manner throughout the life of the project. However, Government introduced programs
(already discussed under Component 2 above), although well-meaning in their intentions, had a design that
was deleterious to competitive market development. Furthermore, more could have been done to address
the persistent allegations of privileged market access by some regional trading houses.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Overall, economic performance is satisfactory. At appraisal, the project's net present value was estimated
at Birr 2,363 million, which has now been re-evaluated at 2,686 million. Similarly, the benefit-cost ratio,
which had been estimated at 3.4 was reevaluated at 3.6. Benefits and costs were not adjusted for price
distortions as these were not found to be significant. Costs include fertilizer and other production costs.
Only quantifiable benefits are utilized in the analysis. The economic analysis does not include a
counterfactual. For example, no attempt has been made to estimate what level of fertilizer use would have
been obtained in the absence of the project. The NPV calculations for both the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) and Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) use 10 percent opportunity cost of capital. Fertilizer
retail prices increased by a weighted average of 16 percent over SAR projected price. Long term cereal
price projections were revised down by 20 percent compared to SAR projections, because of the expected
softening in grain prices as production increases. On the other hand, incremental yields of 0.6 tons/hectare
were considerably higher than the projected 0.32 tons/hectare.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The re-evaluated Value-Cost Ratios dropped because of falling cereal prices since 2000, and rising input
costs. The average Value-Cost Ratio for teff fell from 3.0 to 2.25; from 3.0 to 2.4 for barley; from 4.0 to
1.8 for maize; and from 2.2 to 1.6 for sorghum. However, cereal prices are rebounding.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is judged to be modest. There is more effective industry coordination and
monitoring, enhanced monitoring of the effect of fertilizer related activities on the environment, improved
framework for enforcing fertilizer standards, stronger foundation for more efficient nutrient management,
significant contribution to farmer empowerment.
Better Industry Coordination and Monitoring. The then newly set up National Fertilizer Industry Agency
created to serve as a focal point for fertilizer sector development in Ethiopia has since gained many insights
into the intricacies of the world fertilizer market as well as the multi-faceted challenges of the domestic
marketing system. The agency, now part of the Agricultural Inputs Authority, has been endowed with the
institutional structure, including management, financing and accounting systems, and technical capacity to
- 1 1 -



deal with fertilizer sector issues. It gathers and analyses industry data, and brings together all major
stakeholders through structured periodic meetings, including the popular annual fertilizer workshop. In
order to consolidate these gains and position itself for future challenges, the agency will need further
support and greater autonomy, particularly with regard to the recruitment of specialists from the open
market.
The regional input coordination units (ICUs) recommended by the project have become a key feature of
industry coordination. These ICUs are now regarded as the epitome of effective inter-institutional
coordination in the region, overseeing fertilizer demand estimation, fertilizer supply planning and
positioning, credit and sales. In recognition of the usefulness of this new institution, regional governments
have set up similar ICUs at the zonal and woreda (district) levels.
Improved Environmental Protection Awareness. There is now elevated awareness about the need for
environmental conservation and to monitor the environmental impact of fertilizer use. With the involvement
of the Environmental Protection Agency to periodically test the impact of fertilizer effluents on surface and
ground water quality, there is clearly a greater appreciation for the need to protect the country's water
resources from potential contamination from agricultural inputs. The setting up of an organic fertilizer
manufacturing facility with private initiative (from bones and other animal wastes), the heightened
appreciation for and imminent exploitation of biofertilizers, and promotion of integrated plant nutrient
systems - all these steps have contributed to institutionalizing environmental conservation and protection.
Improved Consumer Protection Awareness. Quality standards and their enforcement protect the consumer
and facilitate trade, thus paving the way for a healthy fertilizer marketing system. The strengthened
Ethiopian Quality and Standards Authority has been vigorously enforcing bagging, handling, storage and
fertilizer quality standards, both at import level in Djibouti as well as within the country.
Better Foundation for Efficient Nutrient Management. The setting up of 17 rural soil testing laboratories,
and their ownership and management by the regional governments is an important institutional development
in efficient nutrient management. Currently, farmers receive a "one-size-fits-all" blanket recommendation
on fertilizer application, as per their agro-ecological zone and crop type. However, there is tremendous
variability in nutrient needs from location to location, and from farm to farm. With the new rural soil
testing laboratories, it is now possible for farmers to receive tailor-made recommendations on nutrient mix
and dosage that would respond optimally to their particular crop and soil situations. This would lead to
more efficient nutrient management and greater productivity. The data generated would also be useful for
producing national soil maps that would guide soil resource management and agricultural extension
programs.
Farmer Empowerment. With the training received under the project, and support from the NFIA in
preparing standard bidding documents, some cooperatives are already organizing their own tender for
supplying their members with fertilizer instead of depending on the zonal or woreda offices to do so on their
behalf By doing so, they've been able to generate competition among different suppliers, thus getting a
good price. It has put them in the driver's seat and has also improved the transparency of their fertilizer
procurement operation. This will also reinforce the cooperative spirit which could spill over into
cooperative grain marketing, etc.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Drought Conditions. Although the period 1996-2001 received relatively adequate precipitation, some
- 12 -



areas were hard hit, particularly in 1997 and 2000, and 2002's devastating drought, leading to reduced
fertilizer consumption, and less than anticipated agricultural production.
Import Credit Access. Some private importers reported difficulty in acquiring import credit from CBE.
This unequal access could have affected the establishment of unfettered competition among potential
importers.
International Fertilizer Market. Intemational market conditions exercise profound influence on the
fertilizer prices which the Ethiopian farmers pay. During the past few years, intemational fertilizer prices
declined, somewhat more precipitously in the case of urea. This helped moderate the upward pressure on
local fertilizer prices due to the significant depreciation of the Birr and the increase in inland transportation
costs exacerbated by the border conflict. A significant increase in world prices of fertilizers in coming
years cannot be ruled out, which could seriously affect the profitability of fertilizer use, unless matching
cost reduction strategies are adopted in the country.
Collapse in Domestic Grain Markets. Whereas nominal grain prices went up by 37 between 1996 and
2000, they took a deep plunge in 2001 of close to 50 percent from the year before, dragging down fertilizer
consumption by 26 percent, and creating severe credit repayment difficulties for many a farmer. For
example, the DAP to maize price ratio dropped from 2.7 in 2000 to 8.8 in 2001, implying that three times
as much maize was needed to buy the same amount of DAP (the most commonly used fertilizer) compared
to a year before. While less dramatic for other crops, it went up from 1.8 to 3.9 for wheat, 1.4 to 1.9 for
teff, and 2.2 to 4.6 for barley. This has highlighted the need for a more holistic approach to input and
output markets.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Currency Depreciation. There was a 35% depreciation of the local currency, from 6.29 Birr/US$ in
1995, to 8.51 Birr/USS  in 2002. Although the benefits to the country's export sector cannot be
overemphasized, it unfortunately washed away the potential gains by the farmers from falling intemational
fertilizer prices. Intemational DAP prices went down by 31 percent, and Urea prices by 33 percent over
the same period. However, local DAP prices went up by 33 percent, with Urea prices declining by a
modest 8 percent. Whereas rising grain prices during 1996-2000 helped farmers absorb these increases,
their collapse during the past two years has led to a sharp decline in fertilizer consumption.
Input Credit Program. To the extent that the credit program has not been market neutral, it could have
indeed affected market structure seriously compromising Government's own private sector promotion
strategy, as discussed in Section 4.2.
Regional Trading Houses. The persistent charges of uncompetitive behaviors allegedly exercised by the
party-affiliated regional trading houses could have received much more attention from both the central
govemment, and most particularly the regional govemments.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Fertilizer Demand Projections. As discussed in Section 4.2, one of the key factors affecting large
carryover stocks is unrealistically high demand projections. The NFIA could have been effective in
moderating the fertilizer demand projections, which were finalized in the annual national fertilizer
workshops attended by all stakeholders.
- 13 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$230.4 million, of which IDA would contribute
US$120.1 million, other donors US$90 million, and Government US$20.4. The bulk of this money i.e.,
US$214.2 (including contingencies, or US$176.6 without contingencies) would finance incremental
fertilizer imports over and above the assumed base of 160,000 tons per year. This base, valued annually at
about US$ 32.0 million (at a CIF price of US$ 200/ton) or US$ 160.0 million over five years, would
continue to be financed with foreign exchange provided by Government and other donors. In addition, IDA
approved a supplemental credit of US$ 44.0 million, which became effective on July 27, 2001. Thus, the
total financial outlay for the base (not funded by the project), the incremental fertilizer imports envisaged
under the project (including the supplemental credit), and other project activities, was about US$ 471.6
million, sufficient to import 2.3 million tons of fertilizer.
At project completion, a total of US$413.1 million had been mobilized for both incremental and base
imports, and other project activities, to which IDA had contributed US$145.4 million. Some US$ 4.5
million remained undisbursed on the IDA credits and was cancelled (with the rest of the difference between
credit amounts and disbursements being due to SDRIUS$ exchange rate fluctuations). A total of 2.1
million tons was imported.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Although some of the activities supported by the project are clearly sustainable, the project's overall
contribution to increased use of fertilizer and associated improvement in productivity is probably not
sustainable due to the lack of development of a viable competitive sector. The sustainable activities include
price deregulation, reversal of which is highly unlikely, and the institutional processes and practices
initiated at the different agencies involved in the project which have been intemalized, including being
funded from their own budgets. However, the establishment of a competitive input market, which is a key
factor for sustained growth in fertilizer consumption, was unsuccessful.
Price Deregulation and Institutional Strengthening. The policy changes introduced under the project are
in line with the country's long-term strategic framework of free markets, principals of which are at the core
of Government's recently issued poverty reduction and rural development strategies. Thus, any policy
reversals are highly unlikely. On institutional strengthening, the National Fertilizer Industry Agency's role
has recently been further buttressed by merging it with the National Seed Industry Agency, to form the
Agricultural Inputs Authority. The authority has a clear mandate, and is staffed with competent people,
whose salaries and operating costs are fully paid by the Government (anid so do not depend on projects for
their survival and effective performance). Regarding the 17 soil testing laboratories constructed under the
project, there is evidence of strong ownership by the regional govermments as demonstrated by the
significant budget allocations already provided for running them. These laboratories have been integrated
into the national agricultural research system. It is expected that the regional governments will continue to
monitor and support these nascent institutions and ensure fullest benefit to the farmers. Fertilizer related
activities of the EPA and EQSA have been intemalized into these institutions. These are simple tasks
whose sustainability is highly likely. The Govemment has definite plans to support the cooperatives, as is
evident from the latest cooperative laws and the creation of a separate cooperative promotion department in
each region.
Fertilizer Promotion, Importation and Distribution. Fertilizer use promotion efforts will continue, given
- 14 -



that in addition to the ongoing agricultural extension program, Government is embarking upon a new and
massive training program for farmers in new technologies, including fertilizer. Already, the training of the
first cohort of trainers is underway. And Government has in the past demonstrated full commitment to the
availability of adequate fertilizer in the country, to the point of using its own money when donor funds
weren't available or sufficient to import the required quantities of fertilizer. Fertilizer is indeed at the core
of its rural transformation strategy. However, the efficacy of these promotional efforts will continue to be
undermined by the extension agents' involvement in input distribution and credit management. The
continued exclusive channeling of credit sales through the cooperatives and the extension intervention
program will continue to put private retailers at an unfair advantage. Unresolved allegations of privileged
market access by some firms will demoralize independent dealers, who might eventually quit the market.
However, there are some initiatives with promising prospects. As stated earlier, the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia has expressed openness to examine ways of making fertilizer importation less financially
burdensome to importers through a system whereby fertilizer in bonded warehouses would be treated as
collateral, the mechanics of which still need to be worked out. There is a growing preeminence of
cooperatives in the distribution market, which are increasingly procuring inputs through public tender, thus
eliminating some of the issues surrounding privileged market access. Already, the public tender based
distribution market in Oromia Region (42 percent of total market share) is deemed fairly competitive.
Moreover, Government has made clear its intentions to gradually withdraw (in a non-disruptive manner)
from input distribution, leaving the door open for other players. Indeed, the agricultural extension
program's market share is down to 34 percent. Competition could be further enhanced by designing the
input credit system in such a way that beneficiary farmers have the option of purchasing their supplies from
any source, including private retailers (e.g., by using vouchers). Considering the uncertainties surrounding
these initiatives, the sustainability of the establishment of a truly competitive fertilizer market for now
appears unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Project implementation had been mainstreamed into Government institutions, whose staffing and other
operating costs were already an integral part of Government budget. This includes sector coordination,
promotion and monitoring by the former NFIA (which is now part of the Agricultural Inputs Authority);
environmental monitoring by the EPA; and quality and standards enforcement by the EQSA. Fertilizer use
promotion has always been under the ongoing agricultural extension program and will continue to be so.
Soil testing laboratories belong to regional govemments, which provide budget support and are responsible
for ensuring the laboratories' close coordination with the agricultural extension staff and other agencies.
The laboratories are, however, technically backstopped by the Ethiopian Agricultural Research
Organization (EARO). These laboratories will inevitably have some teething problems. They need to be
closely monitored and supported by regional authorities and EARO. Issues relating to improving input and
output market efficiency and competitiveness will continue to need attention, and are to be addressed in the
Rural Capacity Building and Market Development Project currently under preparation (FY04).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending is satisfactory. The Bank provided adequate support in project preparation, particularly with
regard to integrating cross-country experiences into the project's design. In addition, the Bank's
involvement in the project acted as a catalyst that saw up to 8 other donors getting involved in the industry.
- 15 -



7.2 Supervision:
The project was regularly supervised, mission teams had adequate skill mix, and their aide memoires were
thorough and comprehensive. Country office staff were in close contact with the implementing agency,
trouble shooting on procurement, financial management and other matters as they arose. And when market
distortions associated with the otherwise well-intentioned Government programs in input credit and
agricultural extension began to emerge during the course of project implementation, World Bank
supervision missions were quick to sound the alarm. For example, as early as May 1997, the World Bank
started supporting (and later pushing for) the idea of using input credit coupons that farmers could then
redeem at retail outlets of their choice. The purpose was to break down the emerging input distribution
monopoly of the agricultural extension service and the cooperatives through which input credit was
exclusively channeled at the expense of private retailers. However, the proposed innovative system was
never adopted by Government. According to the aide-memoires, calls for "a phased program for
Government withdrawal" from input distribution were made starting from October 1998. Indeed, the
Government agricultural extension service started decreasing its involvement in input distribution in favor
of the emerging cooperatives. Government share in input distribution has since dropped from its peak of 68
percent to the current 34 percent. Similarly, complaints related to discriminatory treatment of some private
distributors in certain regions seem to have been investigated by mission teams, and Government action
requested. According to the June 1999 aide-memoire, for example, one such anomaly seems to have been
thus resolved. World Bank supervision missions also advised against carrying excessive fertilizer inventory
(November 2000 aide-memoire).
But it was not until October 2000 that an agreement was reached with the Government to hold a high level
workshop (attended by World Bank management and senior Government officials) at which it was decided
to use the four planned studies (Fertilizer Marketing and Credit, Fertilizer Supply Chain Management,
Agronomic and Environmental Aspects, and Institutional Issues in the Fertilizer Sector) to deal much more
comprehensively with these issues. It was further agreed that based on the studies' findings, corrective
action would be taken as appropriate. These studies by independent consultants were completed in 2002.
Their findings confirmed IDA missions' earlier observations, and their recommendations will inform the
ongoing dialogue in the context of the Rural Capacity Building and Market Development Project currently
under preparation.
Despite these problems under Component II, overall project performance continued to be rated satisfactory
in the Project Status Reports. This could have been motivated by the relatively good performance on other
project activities under Components I, HI and IV. Considering the importance of Component II in the
overall project, this overall "satisfactory" rating did not seem to fully reflect the uncertainly of overall
project sustainability caused by weaknesses in Component II. It can, therefore, be argued that Bank
supervision was not fully satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory, due to the failure to downgrade ratings during supervision,
which would have triggered the kind of concerted attention normally reserved for projects in need of greater
institutional focus and support. The Bank also failed to restructure or revise the objectives in light of the
Government's decisions with regard to extension and credit programs.
- 16-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. There was a clear sense of ownership,
commitment and institutional involvement.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
On the whole, the Government's performance in implementing the project was unsatisfactory. The
Goverrment moved swiftly to undertake all the agreed policy reforms, complied with all legal covenants
and the centrality of fertilizer in its rural development strategy and programs was self-evident. However,
public decisions with regard to management of the extension'and credit compromised declared objectives of
private sector promotion, which in turn seems to have slowed down the pace of fertilizer uptake.
Moreover, Government could have been more vigorous in investigating and acting upon charges of alleged
uncompetitive practices attributed to party-affiliated enterprises in the fertilizer distribution market.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, NFIA rapidly built up competence and exhibited satisfactory performance in implementing the
project. Project management tasks were generally carried out on a timely basis and project progress
reports were sufficiently prepared and submitted to IDA in a timely manner. Procurement of goods and
services was, for the most part, carried out in conformity with Bank procedures, except for one case of
misprocurement (US$ 76,000). Audit reports were generally produced on time (aside from some delay
experienced in preparing audits for, Bank-administered Dutch and Italian trust funds). NFIA has
institutionalized coordination mechanisms with all stakeholders, and has become a focal point for the
fertilizer sector development.
7.7 Overall Borrower perforrmance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Involvement of agricultural extension agents in input distribution and credit administration impeded
development of the private sector and undermined the longer term function of extension. With the bulk
(50-70 percent) of their time spent on input and credit administration, the agricultural extension agents
seem to have had little time to focus on advisory services. Moreover, the need for close rapport and trust
between agent and farmer could have been undermined by the occasional adversarial encounters that
characterized some of the loan recovery exercises. They need to shed these functions which could be taken
up by the cooperative movement and private retailers.
Financingfertilizer imports through separately administered mechanisms offoreign exchange allocation
introduces inefficiencies in the fertilizer industry. The rigid, project-financed, (lengthy) public tender
based foreign exchange allocation system denies the importer any latitude regarding making judicious
decisions on optimal timing of entering the market, as well as on the quantity and product mix to procure.
There are also high risk premia occasioned by lengthy bid processes. There is a need to move away from
project based fertilizer imports, in favor of general foreign exchange management. In addition, there does
not seem to be sufficient reason why importers should not be encouraged to directly purchase foreign
exchange at the time and in the amounts of their choosing, for the purposes of importing the quantities and
product mix of their choosing.
- 17-



Agricultural intensification and increased use offertilizer on a sustainable basis will require attention to
management of risk and variability. In a country that is highly susceptible to drought like Ethiopia, use of
fertilizer can accentuate the hardship caused by insufficient precipitation, putting in peril large numbers of
farmers and financial institutions that serve them. This calls for more work on weather based, and other
forms of insurance.
It is important to adopt a holistic approach to agricultural input market development. It is important to
adopt a holistic approach to input market development and seek convergence in the availability of seeds and
fertilizers as one without the other cannot give optimal returns; this has been the recent experience of
running two separate projects on seeds and fertilizers. Most of the issues to be addressed for these two
inputs are common. For instance, ensuring timely and adequate availability, their quality, marketing
practices, input credit, problems of remote locations and semi-arid areas - all are common to both. In fact,
seeds and fertilizer constitute a package and generally the same retailers sell both, In recognition of this,
Government recently merged the national seed and fertilizer promotion agencies into a single agency
(Agricultural Inputs Authority), and is preparing a Rural Capacity Building and Market Development
Project that will deal with all agricultural input markets in a holistic manner.
It is equally important to treat both input and output markets holistically. The grain market crash of
2001, and the resulting hardship in credit repayments and precipitous drop in fertilizer consumption in
2002, clearly illustrate the importance of focusing as much on agricultural input markets as on output
markets.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The draft ICR has been shared with the Borrower for comments, but no comments have been received to
date. However, a summary of the Borrower's ICR is attached as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR has been shared with Dutch and Italian co-financiers for comments, but none have been
received to date.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None
- 18-



Annex r   . ]Key Peirforrmance EIndicators/Log lFrame Matrfix
Outcome/ Impact Indicators
___________________________       Pwjeoted SAR Target IndicatorI   Actua!LWest estimate
Increase in annual food grain     2.6 million tons of incremental grain  3.0 million tons incremental grain
production                        by last project year
Increase in agricultural productivity  0.32 tons/hectare incremental grain  0.60 tons incremental grain per ha.
(yield/hectare)                 I_I
Decrease in food poverty level    Not quanbfied in SAR             Proportion of population under food
poverty down from 47 percent in
.____ _____ _____ _____ _____   __________ _________1995/96  to  42  percent in.1999/2000
1. No log frame formally presented in SAR. Target performance indicators reconstructed from SAR text.
Output Indicators
A. Capacity Building
Activity                          Projected SAR Target Indicatorl  ActualLatest estimate
1. Insttutional Strengthening     Number of office and other       32 vehicles, 100 motorcycles, 500
equipment, machinery, and vehicles  bicycles, 21 computers with printers,
provided to fertilizer related    17 photocopiers and 11 overhead
institutions, namely: National    projectors
Fertilizer Industry Agency, Ministry of
Agriculture, National Soils Service,
Ethiopian Quality and Standards
Authority
2. Conducting local training sessions  60 training sessions for nabional,  151 training sessions, with 6,153
_ regional and woreda level staff  participants
3. Conductng foreign study tours  8 study tours                    5 study tours to Asian and African
countries, 25 participants
4. Overseas fellowships           30 short-term fellowships in: (i)  38 fellowships in these disciplines
fertilizer quality control, (ii)
bio-fertilizer production, (iii) soil
testing, and (iv) cooperative
I development
5. Technical Assistance          89 staff-months                   74.5 staff months in soil test
correlation and biofertilizer
production
1. No log frame formally presented in SAR. Target performance indicators reconstructed from SAR text.
-19 -



Output Indicators (continued)
B. Fertilizer Demand and Supply
Activity                         Projected SAR Target Indicatorl  ActuaULatest estimate
1. Expanding fertilized area     Area affected by incremental    incremental 1 million ha, between
fertilizer: 2.8 million hectares  1996 and 2001 for new users. Could
(includes both the old users who  not easily determine the area for the
would increase the amount applied,  old users where incremental fertlizer
and the new users)               was applied.
2. Expanding fertilizer consumption  From 160,000 tons in 1993/94 to  Note: project actually started in
about 360,000 tons in 1999       1996, thus immediate pre-project
year is 1995 (although it pre-financed
fertilizer purchases in 1995).
Fertilizer consumption increased
from 247,000 tons in 1995 to
290,000 tons in 1999; 298,000 tons
in 2000; 279,000 in 2001; 232,000 in
2002 (drought, low cereal prices).
3. Conductng national fertilizer  1 workshop per year            Workshops held every year as
workshops ____                                                   planned
4. Distributing promotional mini-kit  - 10,000 packets of urea per year,  This activity was subsumed into
packets to initiate more subsistence  5kg each packet            Government's extension program, in
farmers into fertilizer use      - 5,000 packets of DAP per year, 10  which a reported 3 million
kg each packet                   participated in 2000.
5. Training private dealers      1 training session per year     20 training programs were organized
in which some 438 dealers
participated.
C. Soil Fertility Management and Environmental Conservation
Activity                         Projected SAR Target Indicatorl  ActuaULatest estimate
1. Installing Biogas Units       10,000 units by project's end   Activity cancelled as financially not
viable for rural households.
2. Producing and distrbuting     Conduct promotional tnals and    Promotional trials and
rhizobium (biofertilizer) packets  demonstrations by 1st and 2nd  demonstrations canied out but took
project year; make commercial   longer than anticipated; commercial
arrangements for sale of rhizobium  arrangements not yet in place, but
packets to farmers by 3rd year   almost ready
3. Establishing soil testing     8 laboratories planned           17 laboratories established and
laboratories                                                     operabonal
4. Promoting development of      Not quantified in SAR            1 local firm established, producing
indigenous soil nutient sources                                  organic fertilizer from animal bones
and organic wastes (capacity 10,000
tons)
5. Promoting environmental       Not quanbfied in SAR            Monitoring ongoing at 36 sites by
monitoring                                                        EPA
6. Promoting Integrated Plant    Not quantified in SAR           38 trial sites established - work in
Nutrient System                                                  progress
1. No log frame formally presented in SAR. Target performance indicators reconstructed from SAR text.
- 20 -



Output Indicators (continued)
2
D. Fertilizer Policy Reform
Activity                          Projected SAR Target 'ndicaorl   ActuaULatest estimate
1. Deregulatng fertilizer prices  Deregulate:
.      retail prices by Dec. 31,  .     retail prices deregulated in
1996;                            January 1997
*      wholesale prices by Dec.  *      Wholesale and distributor
31, 1997;                        prices deregulated effective January
*      distributor prices by Sep.  1, 998 - well ahead of the stipulated
30,1998                          date.
2. Eliminabing across-the-board   Eliminate by Sep. 30, 1996       Eliminated in January 1997
fertilizer subsidies
3. Elimination of targeted fertilizer  Eliminate by Sep. 30, 1988  Targeted fertilizer subsidy never
subsidy                                                            introduced
4 Establishing and enforcing fertilizer Promulgate quality control legislation  Law promulgated in 1998 and
quality controls                  and enforcement measures         enforcement powers delegated to
regions Quality control enforcement
started.
5. Leveling playing field between  Eliminate preferential access to  Preferential access eliminated
state-owned and private fertilizer  Ministry of Agriculture warehouses
importers and distibutors         by the state-owned Agricultural
Inputs Supply Corporabon
1. No log frame formally presented in SAR. Target performance indicators reconstructed from SAR text.
2. Since there were no costs associated with 'Fertilizer Policy Reform" activibes, they had not been treated as a separate
component in the SAR.
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
1. Capacity Building                                 5.30           8.60            163
2. Fertilizer Demand and Supply*                   178.30         404.03            227
3. Soil Fertility Management and Environmental       7.40           0.48              7
Conservation
Total Baseline Cost                                191.00         413.11
Physical Contingencies                             18.60           0.00
Price Contingencies                                20.70           0.00
Total Project Costs            230.30         413.11
Total Financing Required            230.30         413.11
*Latest estmate includes Supplementary Credit of US$ 44.0 million which became effective on July 27, 2001.
*Funds allocated by co-financiers for fertilizer are: Germany - US$ 54.0 million; African Development Bank -
48.2 million; Italy - US$ 34.9 million; Netherlands - US$ 21.8 million; European Union - US$ 21.8 million;
Japan - 14.1 million; Sweden - US$ 4.0 million; and Norwegian - US$ 3.7 million.
Note: Numbers do not necessarily add up to the total because of rounding.
ProjectCosts by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB          Oh2          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          1.50         0.00          0.00        1.50
(0.00)        (0.90)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.90)
2. Goods                     108.60        2.10         5.60         52.00        168.30
(107.90)       (1.40)       (4.50)       (0.00)      (113.80)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         4.30          0.00        4.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (4.30)       (0.00)       (4.30)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          1.90        54.40        56.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.00)       (1.10)
Total                     108.60        3.60          11.80       106.40       230.40
(107.90)       (2.30)       (9.90)       (0.00)      (120.10)
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Expenditure Category      ICB       Procurement Method 2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
Expeditreat yICB  NCB     Other        N.B.F.    Total_Cost
1. Works                     0.00          1.77         0.00         0.00         1.77
(0.00)       (0.73)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.73)
2. Goods                     146.14        0.44         0.00         32.58       179.16
(143.18)       (0.35)       (0.00)         0        (143.53)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.92         0.00         0.92
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.14)       (0.00)      (1.14)
- 22 -



4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         146.14          2.21           0.92          32.58         181.85
(143.18)        (1.08)         (1.14)         (0.00)       (145.40)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component * (in US$ million equivalent)
[Percentage of Appraisal
Component *             Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate   . |
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Capacity Building      4.90       1.00      0.00      5.80       2.80      0.00     118.4  280.0   0.0
2. Fertilizer Demand and  109.80    16.60      89.80     125.40     76.20    202.40    114.2  459.0   225.4
Supply"*
3. Soil Fertility         5.50       2.80      0.00       0.40      0.10      0.00      7.3    3.6     0.0
Management and
Environmental
Conservation
* Numbers do not necessarily add up to the total because of rounding.
**Includes Supplementary Credit of USD 44.0 million which became effective on July 27, 2001.
NOTE: As per the SAR, the others (CoF.) include the fertilizer importers, distributors, wholesalers and retailers;
foreign exchange for part of these imports may be provided by other donors, and the balance by NBE.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows (Ethiopian Birr, Millions)  -_             _      _     _
Economic Analy sis              EFinadeiaAiiali
Appraisal       Latest          A_priial       ^tatest'Estimates
.___________________             Estim ates
Benefits             3,366           8,357
Costs                1,003           2,650
Net Benefits         2,363           5,707
IRHR/PV (10%)        2,363           2,686
Benefit-Cost Ratio   3.4             3.6
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Pre-Appraisal:               6   Senior Management Specialist/
March 1993                       Team Leader (1); Economist (1);
Agricultural Economist (1);
Policy and Institutional Specialist
(1); Marketing Specialist (1);
Agronomist & Soil Test and
Quality Control Specialist (1).
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal: June-             7   Senior Management
July 1993                        Specialist/TTL (1);
Economist & Financial
Analyst (1); Policy and
Institutional Specialist (1);
Soil Test and Quality
Control Specialist (1); Senior
Economist (1); Agricultural
Economist (1); Poverty and
Gender Issues Specialist (1)
Negotiations:                8   Senior Management Specialist/
January 1995                     TTL (1); Financial Analyst (1);
Senior Counsel (1);
Disbursement Officer (1);
Principle Country Officer (1);
Regional Procurement Advisor
(1); Procurement Officer (1);
Operations Analyst (1)
Supervision
May - June 1996              3   Senior Management                  HS            HS
Specialist/TTL (1); Policy
and Institutional Specialist
(1); Agricultural Operations
Officer (1)
October 1996                 5   Senior Management Specialist/      S             U
TTL (1); Agricultural Economist
(1); Policy and Institutional
Specialist (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1);
Operations Analyst (1)
April - May 1997             5   Senior Management Specialist/      S              S
TTL (1); Agricultural Economist
(1); Policy and Institutional
Specialist (1), Agricultural
Operations Officer (1);
Operations Analyst (1)
- 25 -



October 1997                  4    Senior Management Specialist/       S             S
TTL (1); Agricultural Economist
(1); Policy and Institutional
Specialist (1); Operations
Analyst (1)
June - July 1998              9   Agricultural Operations Officer      S             S
(1); Policy and Institutional
Specialist (1); Procurement
Specialist (I); Marketing
Specialist (1); Economist (1);
Input Credit Specialist (1); MIS
Specialist (1); Soil Fertility
Specialist (1); Research Analyst
(I)
September -                   7    Senior Management Specialist/      HS             S
October 1998                      TTL (1); Principle Operations
(MTR)                             Officer (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1);
Disbursement Officer (1);
Finance and Accounts Officer
(1); Marketing Specialist (1);
Operations Analyst (I)
June 1999                     8    Senior Management Specialist/       S              S
TTL (1); Principle Operations
Officer (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1); Finance
and Accounts Officer (1);
Procurement Analyst (1); Policy
and Institutional Specialist (1);
Informatics Specialist (1);
Operations Analyst (1)
December -                    7    Senior Management Specialist/       S              S
January 2000                       TTL (1); Principle Operations
Officer (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1); Finance
and Accounts Officer (1);
Procurement Analyst (1); Policy
and Institutional Specialist (1);
Operations Analyst (1)
October -                    10    Senior Management Specialist!       S              S
November 2000                      TTL (1); Principle Operations
Officer (1); Senior Agricultural
Specialist (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1);
Informatics Specialist (1);
Procurement Analyst (2);
Finance and Accounts Officer
(1); Policy and Institutional
Specialist (1); Operations
Analyst (1)
June 2001                     7    Senior Management Specialist!       S              S
TTL (1); Principle Operations
Officer (1); Senior Agricultural
- 26 -



Specialist (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1);
Procurement Analyst (1); Policy
and Institutional Specialist (1);
Operations Analyst (1)
January 2002                  4    Agricultural Operations Officer     S             S
(1); Procurement Specialist (1);
Financial Management Specialist
(1); Project Management
Specialist (1)
June 2002                     8    Senior Agricultural Specialist/     S             S
TTL (1); Senior Management
Specialist (1); Agricultural
Operations Officer (1);
Procurement Specialist (1);
Financial Management Specialist
(1); Agricultural Economist (1);
Operations Specialist (2)
ICR
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 56.9                        147.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                      87.8                        254.9
Supervision                               242.7                        730.9
ICR                                         7.0                         35.0
Total                                     394.4                      1,168.6
-27 -



Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                      O H OSUOM       O N * NA
Sector Policies                      O H OSU*M       O N O NA
Physical                             OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
Financial                            OH   OSU-M      ON   ONA
F Institutional Development           0 H O SU * M    0 N 0 NA
Environmental                        O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Gender                        OH   OSUOM      ON * NA
rI Other (Please specify)       OH   OSUOM      ON * NA
F Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
El Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specif)               O H OSUOM       O N O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsat3sfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     OHU
? Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
z Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
z Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
z Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       OU     O HU
3 Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. National Fertilizer Policy 1993.
2. Proclamation no 106/1994 on the establishment of National Fertilizer Industry Agency dated October
26, 1994
3. Proclamation no. 137/1998 on Fertilizer Manufacturing and Trade Proclamation, Dated - November
24, 1998
4. Federal Negarit Gazeta 5th Year No. 25 Addis Ababa - December 15, 1998
5. Staff Appraisal Report - National Fertilizer Sector Project, Ethiopia, April 1995
6. Development Credit Agreement between Government of Ethiopia and Intemational Development
Association - National Fertilizer Sector Project, Ethiopia
7. Development Credit Agreement between Government of Ethiopia and Government of Netherlands -
National Fertilizer Sector Project, Ethiopia
8. Project Implementation Manual, NFSP
9. Aide-memoires of IDA Supervision Missions I to 12, NFSP
10. Benchmark Survey for 1997 crop season prepared in collaboration with CSA
11. Mid-term Progress Report - NFSP, May 1998
12. Proceedings of six annual National Fertilizer Workshops
13. Study report on Agronomic and Environmental use of Fertilizer in Ethiopia, 2001
14. Study report on Fertilizer Marketing and Credit, 2001
15. Study report on Fertilizer Supply Chain Management, 2001
16. Study report on Institutional Analysis of fertilizer related institutions, 2001
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA: NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT (NFSP)
CREDIT No. 2740- ET
1; Principal Performance Rating
*  Outcome                                  Satisfactory
*  Sustainability                         : Very likely
*  Institutional Development Impact         Substantial
*  Bank Performance                       : Satisfactory
*  Borrower Performance                   : Satisfactory
2. Assessment of Development Objective, Design, and Quality at Entry
2.1 Original Objective
The development objective of NFSP, viz. to increase food gain production and productivity with the
object of improving food security and reducing poverty through ensuring that there would be timely and
adequate supply of fertilizers to small farmers dovetails with government development strategies and
priorities. These are based on the Agricultural Development-Led Industrialization (ADLI), in which
productivity gains in smallholder agriculture are at the core.
2.2 Revised Objective
The project development objective was not revised.
2.3 Original Components
The Project had three components: (i) capacity building involving institutional strengthening and human
resource development; (ii) addressing major fertilizer demand and supply constraints; and, (iii) improving
soil fertility management and environmental conservation. The Project also included policy reforms
aimed at the creation of a competitive fertilizer marketing system. These components designed to meet
the specific needs of the country. At the time of project design, fertilizer-related institutions were either
absent or lacked capacity. Ethiopia was emerging from a command economy with heavy government
intervention, weak domestic markets and weak private sector. Also, before the Project, issues of soil
fertility and development of indigenous plant nutrient sources had not been addressed. Thus, the NFSP
components are considered appropriate to achieve the Project's development objective.
2.4 Revised Component
There was no revision of components.
2.5 Quality at Entry
The NFSP built on the economic reforms introduced prior to its inception; it aimed at promoting
competitive fertilizer marketing in Ethiopia, which would limit price spreads and improve price incentives
to stimulate fertilizer demand especially among small farmers. The capacity building interventions were
- 31 -



particularly timely. NFSP implementing agencies, especially the then newly created NFIA would not have
been in a position to implement the NFSP at the level they did without such well thought out
interventions. Thus, the quality at entry was satisfactory and the project design, by and large, adequate.
However, given that inputs market was very weak; the private sector lacked experience and capital, and
Government dominated the sector, the realization of project objectives could have come only slowly.
3.0    Achievements of Objectives and Outputs
The Central Statistical Authority (CSA) estimated food grain production in 2000/01 at 10.6 million tons;
FAO estimates are higher at 12.6 million tons. CSA agricultural sample surveys also reveal that food
production increased in all project years except in 1997/98 when there was a serious rainfall shortage in
the country. The increasing trend of almost continuous increase food grain production shows that the
Project succeeded in achieving its objective.
4.0 Outputs by Component
Fertilizer Policy Reform
Fertilizer policy reforms sought to decontrol fertilizer prices, withdraw fertilizer subsidies, provide fertilizer
importers equitable access to foreign exchange, promote competitive fertilizer markets, disengage
Government from direct marketing of fertilizer, promote greater private and cooperative sector
involvement, and introduce and enforce fertilizer quality control. Most of the above were achieved and
consequently, there is now considerably less govemment intervention in the fertilizer market as a result of
the Project. Nevertheless, establishment of a fully competitive fertilizer market with a vibrant private
sector would take some more time.
Capacity Building
The overall implementation of the capacity building component of the NFSP is rated satisfactory, as
substantial results have been achieved under both subcomponents:
(i) The key interventions under institutional strengthening were the purchase and distribution of
office and other equipment, machinery, vehicles, construction of civil works and the establishment
and strengthening of institutions, committees and various structures that supported and facilitated the
implementation of the NFSP. NFIA was one of the main beneficiaries; others included Agricultural
Extension and Crop Production and Protection Technology and Regulatory Departments of the
Ministry of Agriculture, National Soil Research Center, Ethiopian Quality and Standards Authority,
and the four major fertilizer consuming regions.
(ii) The human resources development (HRD) interventions focused on building staff capacity in key
implementing organizations. These included technical assistance, external and local training and
study tours. Technical assistance was provided in the area of project implementation advice,
management information systems (MIS), fertilizer marketing, monitoring and evaluation (all to NFIA),
bio-fertilizer, and soil testing correlation (to NSRC), and also in cooperative management. The
recipients of technical assistance acknowledge that it has helped them to improve their
organizational and management skills, increase knowledge on substantive issues relating to fertilizer
sector development, and brought about greater appreciation of the usefulness of information sharing
and networking.
(iii) Six short duration study tours for 25 policy makers and subject-mater specialists from different
implementing agencies were carried out covering ten countries. The experiences gained and
lessons learned from the study tours have been highly valued by the recipient agencies. Further, 41
participants were sent to eight countries under 16 external training programs in fertilizer demand
forecast; international fertilizer marketing; agriculture input marketing; production and distribution of
SSP and organic fertilizer; commercial production and promotion of bio-fertilizer; operation of soil
testing laboratories; and networking. According to the implementing agencies the knowledge and
skills obtained from these foreign training programs were very useful, pertinent and practical.
- 32 -



(iv) Finally, the NFSP organized a total of 162 local training programs in a variety of subjects from
1996/97 to 2001 in which 6,368 persons from the regions participated.
(v) As part of the NFSP, NFIA has established a system for the collection of data related to fertilizer
demand, imports, prices, credit and cash sales, etc. It has been decided to further upgrade the
system to get more detailed grassroots information from woredas and local levels and to establish a
Local Area Network (LAN) to operate a new computerized MIS system
Fertilizer Demand and SuDPlY Management
At the time of designing NFSP (1995/96), fertilizer use was concentrated in a few regions, and within
these regions a few zones and woredas. Of the 22 zones in the Oromia and Amhara regions, eight of
them had a share of about 85% of the fertilizer use.. Further, the intensity of fertilizer use was very low,
about 7.0 kg. of nutrients/ha against 48 kg/ha in Kenya and 60 kg/ha in Zimbabwe. Therefore, the
Project successfully implemented several activities to promote fertilizer use and to improve fertilizer
availability. For instance:
(i) The amount and timing of fertilizers supply remarkably improved during the Project period.
According to a consultant study (KUAWAB and DSA, 1994) fertilizer shortages was one of the most
important problems both in high and low consuming areas. The recent Fertilizer Marketing and Credit
Study (DSA, 2001), reported that the extent of shortage was minimal.
(ii) The project enforced rigorous monitoring of the process of fertilizer import to ensure adequate
and timely supply to users, set up institutional arrangement to provide all importers equal access to
foreign exchange, and ensure efficient and cost effective inland transportation of fertilizers with the
help of a 'Fertilizer Logistics Committee'.
(iii) Strengthened extension system has considerably advanced the fertilizer use promotion and
laying of field trials on alternative sources of plant nutrients. In addition, the recent establishment of
17 regional soil laboratories through NFSP would further promote efficient and appropriate fertilizer
use in the country.
(iv) The project has created a huge awareness, at the regional as well as the national levels, about
the critical role of fertilizers in agriculture. Two examples: (i) the regional governments now make an
in-house assessment every August, together with stakeholders, about the fertilizer use success in the
outgoing agricultural year, and prepare a tentative action plan for the following year; (ii) the NFIA
conducts a three day annual National Fertilizer Workshop with wide participation from stakeholders,
including regional governments, to review, share experiences and strategize for the next year. Six
such workshops were held in the project life.
Soil Fertility Manaaement and Environmental Conservation
The project has successfully initiated the necessary groundwork for improving the long-term fertility
status of Ethiopian soils in an environmentally friendly manner and the project performance is rated as
satisfactory. The major NFSP interventions in this area included (i) development of indigenous nutrient
resources (bio-fertilizer and others); (ii) bio-gas development subject to an acceptable proposal on its
technical, financial and economic justification; (iii) promotional trials and demonstrations on
bio-fertilizers, and the production/ distribution of rhizobium packets including commercial arrangements
for the sale of the latter to farmers; (iv) pilot initiatives and studies relating to integrated plant nutrient
supply systems; (v) establishment of rural soil testing laboratories and, (vi) monitoring the environmental
impact of increased fertilizer use. The outputs of this component are noteworthy.
(i) The project has increased awareness as well as capacity at the policy and technical levels,
notably in the regions, about. (a) Ethiopia's potential for developing indigenous plant nutrient
- 33 -



resources; and (b) the need to change the blanket recommendation of fertilizers types and rates
through soil test data, and make them location specific
(ii) Fertilizer rate trials had been initiated in five regions (27 locations) with the objective to establish
yield responses to N and P fertilizers on major soils and crops in different areas and also to assess
the impact of different land husbandry practices. Data are being collected from trials to assist in
developing precise fertilizer use recommendations.
(iii) The NFSP has also been engaged in promoting Integrated Plant Nutrition System (IPNS) Trials,
using both organic and inorganic nutrient sources. This is a longer term path breaking initiative and
work is in progress.
4.0 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
Relevant data to compute the Project NPV at its completion are available only for the period 1996 to
2000, even so they are not complete. However, based on reasonable assumptions and considering the
various price variables, the NPV of the Project is Birr 2,425 million compared to Birr 2,362 million, using
foreign exchange rate of one dollar is equal to Birr 8.56.
ERR could not be calculated for lack of data.
4.1 Financial Rate of Return
Value Cost Ratios (VCR) have been computed by the recently carried out NFIA study on Fertilizer
Marketing and Credit. The comparison with similar calculations by the SAR for a few zones shows that
the profitability of some crops like teff has declined while that of wheat and barley improved markedly
during the life of the project. This could be because of relatively lower teff response to fertilizer
application.
5.0 Institutional Development Impact
The project had a strong institutional impact. Strengthening of NFIA as the main national level
coordinating and responsible body in the fertilizer sector is a major achievement. Additionally, the
institutionalization of the national and regional level stake holder consultative process, the creation of
high level committees in support of fertilizer import, domestic distribution, and appropriate use (the
foreign exchange committee, the logistics committee, ICUs, etc.); and, the establishment of STLs in
most regions of the country are important institutional outcomes of the Project. Further, the project
helped strengthen several existing institutions, including MoA, Cooperatives, EPA, QSAE.
6.0 Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
The international prices of fertilizers continued to decline, with some exceptions, during the project
period. However, the benefits could not be passed on at all (for DAP), or partially passed on (for urea) to
farmers, because of the almost continuous depreciation of the Birr, increased transportation costs and
higher cost of borrowing for the importers. This increase in the retail price of fertilizer also outstripped
that of grain prices
6.2 Factors Subject to Government Control
(i) Government direct involvement in the fertilizer market continues despite significant economic
reforms. This needs to be reduced.
(ii) Government intervention in the credit market is of particular importance as imports (given the
- 34 -



capital intensity of such operations) and domestic sales are largely tied to the availability of credit.
Availability of credit is a key constraint in the import of fertilizers given the lack of access to
suppliers' credit and high collateral requirements for obtaining loans within the country. Further, with
regard to farmers' access to credit, in the provision of which the regional governments are heavily
involved, there has been criticism in National Fertilizer Workshops and elsewhere that regional
governments tend to tilt in favor of certain (party-affiliated) importers and distributors, and even use
administrative measures against other companies. This strong perception, largely based on
anecdotal evidence, has eroded market competitiveness and discouraged new entrants.
6.3 Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
(i) Follow-on action on identified constraints during the national/regional workshops and other
forums has been weak. There appears to be a need to develop institutional arrangements to
effectively monitor and follow-up on the implementation of the recommendations made by various
stakeholders on identified constraints and proposed actions.
(ii) The Project's interventions need to be supported by complementary investments by
implementing agencies. For example, ICUs have had logistical difficulties and budgetary shortages
for covering operational costs, particularly at woreda and PA levels. Mechanisms need to be
developed to follow up on these constraints.
6.4 Cost and Financing
The total cost of the Project was US$230.42 million of which US$ 216.25 or 93.85% was for the demand
and supply management component, while 2.55% and 3.60% was allocated for the capacity building and
the soil fertility management and environmental conservation components, respectively. As at December
31, 2001 US$ 188.60 million was actually utilized, 95.56% on fertilizer demand and supply, 2.96% on
capacity building and the remaining 1.48% on soil fertility management. More recent estimates indicate
that nearly 93% of the IDA fund has been used. The proportionate change in the allocation among the
components is mainly because of the depreciation of value of the Ethiopian Birr vis-a-vis the US Dollar.
In the project period alone the value of the local currency decreased by almost 50% (from Birr 5.5 to Birr
8.56 to one US Dollar).
7.0 Sustainability
7.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating
(i) The Project is rated 'very likely to be sustained'. There is a high level of government
commitment to the fertilizer sector and to the initiatives of the Project both in terms of policy reforms
as well as institutional building. The latter is indicated by the fact that the governments fully
budgeted and released its contribution to the project. Similarly, key staff needed to operate STLs are
already budgeted, in place and trained. There is ownership of STLs by regional governments.
(ii) Important institutional processes introduced under the project are likely to be maintained. For
example, the annual national and regional held regularly throughout the project life, and funded
under NFSP, are now committed to be funded by government.
7.2 Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations
Most initiatives started by the Project have already been transferred to regular operations. For example,
NFIA has assumed the responsibility for future national workshops, the regional governments have
assumed operation and maintenance responsibility for STLs. The STLs are furthermore members of the
Soil and Plant Analysis Laboratories Network of Ethiopia (SPALNE) for continued technical backstopping
and upgrading. Allocation of foreign exchange for the import of fertilizer through regular operations
could, in the short run, put a significant strain on Ethiopia's balance of payments position. It is therefore
expected that external assistance for fertilizer imports (or more generally for balance of payments
- 35 -



support) will continue until economic reforms (both macro and sectoral) result in economic performances
that support a stronger foreign trade position. This is a long-term issue.
8.0 Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
8.1 Lending
The activities proposed in the SAR addressed priority agricultural development needs of Ethiopia; the
financial provisions for proposed activities were sufficient and the flow of funds reasonably smooth.
Moreover, the socio-economic benefits anticipated from the outputs have been realized. The appraisal
was sufficiently sensitive to the implementability of NFSP under the then political, social and economic
environment of the country. Adequate assurances were obtained from the Government, as considered
necessary. The project also made provisions to monitor and address possible adverse impacts, like
environment. Nevertheless, a possible gap was that the credit issues were not comprehensively
addressed in the project.
8.2 Supervision
The supervision of the mission was regular and effective. During the NFSP there were 12 World Bank
Supervision Missions. On average there was about 2.6 staff months of input in each mission with the
required mix of expertise. Each mission met with all actors in the fertilizer sector, including government
officials at policy level to discuss results, constraints, emerging challenges and suggested measures to
correct constraints or unfolding issues. Furthermore, there is evidence of rigorous follow-up on the
implementation of the agreed action plan of each supervision mission. Flexibility, where necessary, was
allowed and this has contributed to the successful implementation of the Project. Business transactions
in each mission were carried out in an environment of understanding.
8.3 Overall Bank Performance
This ICR concludes that the overall performance of the Bank has been satisfactory.
Borrower
8.4 Preparation
The Project was prepared with the full participation of the borrower (Government).
8.5 Government Implementation Performance
The Government implementation is rated between satisfactory and very satisfactory. Optimism,
commitment to economic growth in general and the fertilizer sector in particular, as well as openness,
and realism, characterized the actions of the borrower especially pertaining to policy reforms, institutional
changes, and other key issues that needed attention both during the design and implementation of the
Project.
8.6 Implementing Agency
The National Fertilizer Industry Agency has been at the center of the NFSP implementation. It was
assisted by 12 national and regional government agencies with each of which it has had a Memorandum
of Understanding. NFIA has at all times been proactive, readily accessible, participatory, sensitive to
operational matters, and result-oriented. It has been particularly pushy on human resource development
programs of the Project. It unfailingly organized and led the annual national workshops. It annually
reviewed, in collaboration with the Regional Bureaus of Agriculture, factors that influenced demand for
- 36 -



and supply of fertilizer in that particular year and adequately facilitated World Bank missions. The
implementation performance of the NFIA and its implementing agencies is rated satisfactory to very
satisfactory.
8.7 Overall Borrower Performance
The overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.
9.0 Lessons Learned
(i) Policy reforms included in the SAR aimed at creating an enabling environment for the growth of
a competitive fertilizer sector. Yet, competitive fertilizer marketing has not yet fully emerged. In
particular, the number of private dealers has declined at the import, distribution/wholesale and retail
levels.  Interventions under the NFSP were insufficient to achieve a competitive fertilizer sector.
Clearly, greater attention needs to be given to the following two key issues: (i) strengthening the legal
and regulatory framework; and, (ii) extension of farmer (smallholder) credit and its effect on market
competition. Also, it has been found that market liberalization has been accompanied by increased
relative prices. Thus the greater reliance on the market (through removal of subsidies, withdrawal of
government, etc.) as envisaged by the Project needs to be considered in terms of promoting fertilizer
use and the profitability of fertilizer application.
(ii) Fertilizer is considered a strategic commodity in Ethiopia, and its demand has repeatedly been
over-estimated. This has negatively impacted on the importers' profitability due to costs of excessive
carry over stocks. There is therefore an issue as to who should carry the cost of maintaining excess
stocks in order to preserve the efficiency of the marketing system. Possibly a third party should do it.
(iii) The NFSP strategy of project implementation through building local capacity and delegation of
authority from NFIA to other agencies particularly at the regional level allowed the sharing of
responsibility for the sector and extended the project impact. This is an example of good practice.
(iv) The annual national and regional workshops have been one of the most effective mechanisms
for facilitating the implementations of the NFSP and generally supporting the fertilizer sector. Such
workshops contributed to experience and information sharing, promoted networking, created a forum
of understanding through discussion of challenges and implementation problems. Issues such as
shrinking competition in retail and wholesale markets, emergence of monopolistic trends, were
detected early through workshops, IDA supervision mission reports, and other means, but not fully
resolved. An important lesson: there is need to take measures to address unfolding issues as quickly
as possible.
(v) The positive role of credit in the intensification and expansion of the use of technological inputs
such us fertilizer among smallholders cannot be questioned. Experience reveals however that input
credit administration was over-stretched and became unsustainable. There is a need to maintain the
dynamism of development policies and strategies on a sustained basis.
- 37 -






34-         36-         38  /
ETHIOPIA
.v-NATIONAL FERTILIZER SECTOR PROJECT
,J Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise(AISCO)
)           \  - =--  RED        I         Sales and Disrribut;on Centres
16-                            ERITREA   -     ' SA                    *   .INCITR' 
! I  ~   Sk                            U :  -  - |   * A'UiN CEIITERS
SU CENqTERS
(     t '               \          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS
i     /@#\s          -A; - .. -     \         O   NflCNONAL CAPITAL
\   /   |  7  -   | -s  1 ~~~~~~~~~ t  \   - ~~ ZONES IL.noh.c.al i 99-1 bc-ndar.cs)
CTATES (LUnoflic.aI   9-  oria,
14-SUDAN                   T,IGRAY    \     >                    .s ';  S X -  INTERNATIONAL BOLINPARIES'!.-
t_ _   <~~~~~~~m tEELE  V}\     XLF                           J
12*                                                AFA   / 
BEN,'A GU     FINOTE SELAM                                 --
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
('GAMBELLAi J             -' SSN>BEKOJIO>ROMI8-
~~~NA!L4$.OkeZ;YHA!RA.1
'%~~~ 1a, -NEEMPI                            0 s   ,.
S.>  A                E-\ 'v O5  / fSS               SOMALI /BOMSAL
The                            SINors,cir,.   E R   R A O -
denominations and any      ARBA
6- other nformoton shown  Jw  MINCH,
on  this  map  do  not
imply, on the port of
The World  Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal
status of any territoryK
or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundories   .  .   /k                      \A         \/ 
boundories  ./    5  .                    /KILOMETERS 0                     50  100 150 200 250 300 350 400
I    ...N..KE.                                                            MILES  0  50  100  150  200  250  0.
so UGANDA 31-       (,6>34.                 40-                     44-         46l         48'       0
NDA  TURKANA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N









Report N\o.:      25265
Type.:    CR



