CREDIT NUMBER 2740 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(National Fertilizer Sector Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  b       , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2740 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1995, between FEDERAL
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower's Council of Ministers having adopted on
November 5, 1993 the Borrower's National Fertilizer Policy describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to develop a competitive and broad-based
fertilizer sector;
(B)    the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires- the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Project Year" or "PY" means each period of twelve months, beginning
from the Effective Date and ending twelve (12) months thereafter; provided, however, that
for the purpose of paragraph 2 (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the first Project Year
shall start on the date specified therein;
(b)    "NFIA" means the National Fertilizer Industry Agency, established
pursuant to the Borrower's Proclamation No.106/1994 of October 26, 1994;


﻿-2-
(c)    "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d)    "AED" means the MOA's Agricultural Extension Division;
(e)    "ADD" means the MOA's Agricultural Development Division;
(f)    "NSS" means the Borrower's National Soils Service;
(g)    "AISCO" means the Agricultural Inputs Supply Enterprise established
pursuant to the Borrower's Council of Ministers' Regulation No.177/94 of February 20,
1994;
(h)    "DAP" means Di-ammonium Phosphate;
(i)    "ES A" means the Ethiopian Standards Authority;
(j)    "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan described in the Borrower's
letter dated January 27, 1995;
(k)    "Regional Bureaus" means the departments of agriculture established in
each of the Borrower's Regional Governments;
(1)    "CPD" means the Cooperative Promotion Department of MOA; and
(in)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eighty two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 82,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
US Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August I commencing August 1, 2005 and ending February 1, 2035. Each


﻿-4-
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise &Jch modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project, through MOA, Regional Bureaus, NFIA, AISCO, ESA, NSS, and private sector
fertilizer traders, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, managerial, financial, agricultural, and environmental practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for such Parts of the Project; and


﻿-5-
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Bc-rower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project, in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, eliminate all its fertilizer
price subsidies; (b) refrain from extending any direct or indirect subsidy to AISCO; (c)
not later than December 31, 1996, deregulate retail prices; (d) not later than December
31, 1997, deregulate wholesale prices; and (e) not later than September 30, 1998,
complete the process of deregulating fertilizer prices.
Section 3.04. The Borrowel shall ensure that: (a) public and private sector
importers shall have, at all times, equal access to: (i) any foreign exchange made available
by the Borrower for fertilizer imports, and (ii) any credit for fertilizer importation and
domestic marketing; and (b) the private sector shall be represented, in a manner
acceptable to the Association, in all committees to be established for the implementation
and coordination of Pe Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause NFIA to: (a) by December 31, 1995,
establish a financial qianagement and accounting system, acceptable to the Association,
for the implementation of the Project; (b) immediately following the midterm review
referred to in SectiA  3.08. of this Agreement, finalize commercial arrangements,
acceptable to the Association, for the sale of rhizobium packets to farmers; (c) by the end
of the third Project Year, start implementing cost recovery mechanisms, acceptable to the
Association, for soil testing services; and (d) not later than December 31, 1996, establish
a system, acceptable to the Association, for the compilation and maintenance of a data
base on the impact of fertilizer on the environment, including monitoring and testing
activities at strategic locations for the purpose of environmental protection.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to
facilitate the licensing of private clearing and forwarding agents at the ports through
which fertilizers are imported.
Section 3.07. the Borrower shall cause AISCO to implement the action plan
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿-6-
Section 3.08. (a) Not later than six (6) months after the end of the second Project
Year, the Borrower shall conduct, jointly with the Association, a comprehensive review
of the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the review shall,
inter alia, cover the implementation and management aspects of the Project, including
procedures, progress made in the carrying out of the Project including policy reforms, the
privatization of AISCO's wholesale and retail operations, the performance and use of
technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart staff, the status and results
of training, reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement and procurement
procedures and the overall sustainability of the Project.
(b)    Not later than thirty days prior to the review referred to in (a) above, the
Borrower shall, through NFIA, furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in implementing the various components of the Project, and a draft
action plan containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
(c)    The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, cause NFIA to: (i) prepare an
action plan satisfactory to the Association based on the recommendation stemming from
the aforementioned review, and (ii) adopt and implement said action plan for the
remainder of the Project period.
Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives
of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments,
agencies and Regional Bureaus of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association.shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
reords, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    AISCO has furnished to the Association: (i) a business plan for 1995,
acceptable to the Association; (ii) guidelines on fertilizer pricing, acceptable to the
Association, for distributors, wholesalers, and retailers; and (iii) an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association, designed to achieve the privatization of AISCO's retail and
wholesale marketing operations by December 31, 1997;
(b)    NFIA has: (i) furnished to the Association its annual work program for
1995-96, acceptable to the Association; and (ii) recruited, in accordance with Section II
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Project Implementation Adviser and the two
specialists referred to in paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association;


﻿-9-
(c)    The Association has received evidence, satisfactory to the Association,
showing that the Project Coordination and Monitoring Office has been made fully
operational; and
(d)    Fertilizers/inputs units have been established in each of the Borrower's
Regional Bureaus o/ agriculture to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the
Project at the regional level.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Telex: 21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By/                      9J7$1t  - - X7V
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 4lurl~~
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
S.The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
gategory                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                     500,000          60%
(2)   Goods:
(a)  Fertilizers                65,600,000       100% of foreign
Imports                                    expenditures
(b)  Vehicles                      830,000       100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(c)  Equipment                   2,830,000       100% of foreign
and Machinery                              expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(d)  Fertilizer                     70,000       80%
Mini-kits


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                                       100%
Services:
(a)   Technical                 1,600,000
Assistance
(b)   Training                  1,200,000
(c)   Workshops                   200,000
(4)  Operating Costs                   690,000          90% for payments made
in PY1 and PY2 and
50% for payments
made in PY3, PY4
and PY5
(5)  Unallocated                      9,380,000
TOTAL                     82,900,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided
however that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditure in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
(c)    the term  "operating costs" means incremental recurrent expenditures
incurred for the implementation of the Project for staff salaries and allowances, office


﻿- 14-
supplies, office communications services, minor office equipment, utilities, fuel,
maintenance and insurance of vehicles used for the Project;
(d)    the terms "PY 1", "PY2", "PY3", "PY4" and "PY5" mean the first Project
Year, the second Project Year, the third Project Year, the fourth Project Year and the fifth
Project Year, respectively; and
(e)    notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 8,300,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after September 29, 1994.
3.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works
and services not exceeding $100,000 equivaleit, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to achieve accelerated and sustainable growth in
agricultural production with a view to improving food security and reducing poverty,
through: (a) support to policy reforms aimed at creating an enabling environment for a
competitive fertilizer sector; (b) assistance to institutional strengthening and human
resource development; (c) promotion of efficient and environmentally safe use of
fertilizers; (d) removal of main fertilizer supply constraints; and (e) promotion of
initiatives aiming at the improvement of long-term fertility of the Borrower's soil and
environmental conservation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:        CaRacity Building
1.     Strengthening of the Borrower's departments, agencies and institutions involved
in the fertilizer sector, including MOA, ESA, NFIA, and the NSS's microbiological
laboratory through: (a) provision of technical expertise, equipment, machinery, and
vehicles; (b) organization of workshops; and (c) establishment of soil testing facilities.
2.     Human resource development through provision of short-term technical assistance,
and study tours and fellowships to strengthen the Borrower's capacity in: (a) project
implementation, and (b) fertilizer-related disciplines, and management information
systems.
3.      In-country training in areas including fertilizer importation and domestic
marketing, port handling and logistics, integrated plant nutrient supply systems, quality
control, soil testing, inventory control and warehouse management, environmentally safe
storage, transportation and fertilizer application techniques, cooperative management,
biogas technology, and biofertilizers production, storage and transportation.
Part B:        Fertilizer Demand and Supply
1.     Promotion of fertilizer use through support to initiatives to promote efficient,
balanced and greater nutrient use by farmers, including: (a) training of extension staff,
farmers and fertilizer traders in fertilizer use; and (b) implementation of annual mini-kit
programs to initiate farmers into fertilizer and balanced nutrient use.


﻿- 16 -
2.     Strengthening of regional extension and farm advisory services in fertilizer use
promotion and use technology, through provision of equipment, technical assistance and
training.
3.     Development of integrated plant nutrient supply systems through, inter alia: (a)
promotion of biogas technologies, recycling of organic wastes, and use of tiofertilizers,
and (b) implementation of a trial/demonstration program on biofertilizer.
4.     Strengthening fertilizer retail network to improve the farmers' access to fertilizers
through training and provision of technical expertise.
5.     Production and commercialization by AISCO and the private sector, of 25 and 10
kilogram fertilizer bags.
6.     Strengthening NFIA's capacity to monitor the availability of input loans to
farmers and traders to enhance the demand for fertilizers.
7.     Strengthening CPD's capacity to accelerate formation and registration procedures
for agricultural cooperatives, through training and provision of technical advisory services.
8.     Incremental fertilizer imports.
Part C:        Soil Fertility Management and Environment Conservation
1.     Development of indigenous nutrient resources, both organic and inorganic, to
sustain and improve soil fertility and reduce the Borrower's dependence on fertilizer
imports.
2.     Promotion of biogas technology in rural areas, through provision of extension
services and training.
3.     Production of biofertilizers in the NSS's microbiological laboratory.
4.     Carrying out of pilot initiatives and studies to develop indigenous resources for
supply of nutrients.
5.     Establishment and operation of eight regional soil testing field laboratories to test
soil samples and to advise farmers on crop and fertilizer use as a first step towards the
establishment of a countrywide soil testing service.


﻿- 17 -
6.     Training of: (a) farmers and extension personnel in the efficient and balanced use
of nutrients to minimize losses of nutrients and other polluting elements into the
environment, and (b) fertilizer traders in safe storage and handling techniques.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect
to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review in.accordance with the
provisions of Part D. 1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension shall exceed
sixty days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:       Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 19 -
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Fertilizer imports under Part B.8 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000, and
specialized equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from a list of qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
and acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.     Items, or groups of items, for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
3.     Fertilizer mini-kits required under Part B.1 of the Project, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.     Items, or groups of items, for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, and for
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 20 -
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15%  is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     Under the supervision of the National Fertilizer Industry Board (NFIB), the
National Fertilizer Industry Agency (NFIA) will be in charge of the overall
implementation and coordination of the Project implementation. NFIA will establish and
maintain for the duration of the Project implementation, a Project Coordination and
Monitoring Office (PCMO) which shall be headed by a Project Coordinator, whose
qualifications and experience shall be at all times satisfactory to the Association.
2.     (a)    NFIA shall, in addition to its coordination responsibilities, be responsible
for the implementation of Parts A, and B.6 of the Project; (b) MOA shall be responsible
for the implementation of Parts B.2, B.3, and B.7 of the Project, with the assistance of
regional bureaus of agriculture; (c) AISCO shall be responsible for the implementation
of Parts B.4, B.5 and B.8 of the Project, in cooperation with the private sector under
arrangements acceptable to the Association; and (d) MOA, NFIA and AISCO will be
jointly responsible for the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project.
3.     The Borrower shall: (a) promptly after the Effective Date, cause NFIA to take all
measures necessary on its part to organize a Project Launch Workshop with the
participation of all departments and agencies responsible for the implementation of the
Project, to finalize: (i) Project start-up arrangements, and (ii) adopt a work program for
the first Project Year; (b) by the end of each annual fertilizer consumption season, cause
NFIA to: (i) carry out, in close consultation with all institutions, departments and
operators involved in the fertilizer sector, a review of the past season's experience in
fertilizer use by farmers, (ii) based on the findings of said review, prepare an action plan
designed to expand fertilizer use during the following consumption season, and (iii) by
September of each year, organize a national fertilizer workshop, including representatives
of all institutions, departments, entities, and private sector operators involved in the
fertilizer sector, to review and adopt the said action plan; (c) during the months of
December and January of each year, cause NFIA to implement training programs in
fertilizer use promotion for its extension staff; (d) not later than December 31, 1996,
cause ESA to: (i) update and develop quality standards for fertilizer products and
packaging, and (i) in accordance with the Program, establish enforcement mechanisms
for fertilizer quality control; and (e) for the implementation of Part B. 1 (b), cause MOA
to initiate, in each Project Year, at least: (i) 5,000 subsistence farmers into DAP and urea
use, and (ii) 10,000 DAP-using farmers into balanced nutrient use through the additional
application of urea as top dressing.


﻿- 22 -
4.     The Borrower shall cause NFIA and AISCO to carry on their operations and
conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural,
commercial and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
5.     The Borrower shall cause NFIA to: (a) ensure that PMCO's positions of
disbursement officer, operations officers, and management information system officer are
at all times filled with staff whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment shall be acceptable to the Association; and (b) recruit and maintain: (i) for
not less than one Project Year, a Project Implementation Adviser to assist NFIA's General
Manager, and (ii) for not less than six months, a specialist in fertilizer management
information systems and a specialist in fertilizer marketing, to assist NFIA in the
implementation of the Project.
6.     The Borrower shall cause NFIA to: (a) establish and maintain a Fertilizer
Logistics Committee which shall be chaired by NFIA's General Manager, and shall
comprise representatives from: (i) the Borrower's ministries in charge of transport,
finance, and agriculture, and (ii) the fertilizer private sector; (b) establish and maintain a
Fertilizer Credit Committee which shall be chaired by NFIA's General Manager, and shall
comprise representatives from the banking sector, agricultural extension services, and
fertilizers traders from the public and private sector; (c) implement, each Project Year,
training programs, acceptable to the Association, to: (i) improve. the management of
fertilizer importation and distribution, (ii) enhance involvement of private entrepreneurs
in the sector, (iii) increase knowledge and skills related to the development and
application of domestic nutrient resources, and (iv) improve farmers' knowledge and skills
in fertilizer use; (d) at the beginning of each Project Year, prepare and furnish to the
Association, for review and comments, a program for production and distribution of
rhizobium packets to be carried out under the Project during the concerned year, and
thereafter, implement said program taking into account the Association's comments
thereon; (e) for each Project Year, prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to
the Association, designed to ensure the adequate and timely importation of fertilizers by
the private and public sectors; (f) implement annual training programs in quality control
enforcement, safe handling and transportation of fertilizer products for fertilizer inspectors
and traders; and (g) by June 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to the Association, for
review and comments, a Project impact evaluation survey report, for the previous year,
which shall cover, inter alia, fertilizer use and impact on production.


﻿- 23 -
7.     The Borrower shall cause AISCO to: (a) implement a restructuring plan,
acceptable to the Association, including the action plan referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement; (b) by March of each year, prepaie and furnish to the Association, for
review and comments, its business plan for its following fiscal year; and (c) thereafter,
implement said business plan, taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
8.     The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
Project Implementation Plan, subject to such modifications as may be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association from time to time.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Sectioi 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 'he
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 25 -
(ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower .out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Stction 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 26 -
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further Jeposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


