Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10507-TA  Type: (PCR)                      R        N  10507
MACKIE, T / X31752 / T9053/ OEDDI                      eportNo.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
(CREDIT 1229-TA)
MARCH 31, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
South Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit                     Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal:       US$ 1.00   = Tsh 8.25
Exchange Rate at Completion:      US$ 1.00   = Tsh 200.00
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Tanzania                1 July to 30 June
World Bank                            I July to 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP    FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FBD        Forestry and Beekeeping Division
GOT        Government of Tanzania
PCR        Project Completion Report
SHS        Sao Hill Sawmill
SPM        Southern Paper Mills



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offce of DOrectoq-Ceneral
Operations Evaluatign
March 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on TANZANIA
Sao Hill Forestry Project - Phase II (Credit 1229-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Tanzania - Sao Hill Forestry Project - Phase I
(Credit 1229-TA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. This project has not been audited
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE II
CREDIT 1229-TA
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .........................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................                                               iii
PART I                PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity ..............................  1
2.  Background ...............................                                                  1
3.    Project Objectives and Description .............................. 2
4.    Project Design and Organization  .............................   2
5.    Project Implementation .............................  3
6.  Project Results .............................                                              4
7.    Project Sustanability .............................                                      5
8.  Bank Performance .............................                                             6
9.    Borrower Performance ..........                     ................... 7
10.   Project Relationship .............................                                       8
11.   Consulting Services and Studies  .............................   8
12.   Project Documentation and Data .............................    9
PART II                PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
13.   General Remarks .............................                                            11
14.   Project Design and Organization .............................   11
15.   Project Sustainability ..............................                                   12
16.   Borrower Performance ..............................                                     13
17.   Project Completion Report ...............................                                13
18.   Economic Impact ........................................ 13
PART III               STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................                            15
Table 2: Project Timetable ........................                                     15
Table 3: Credit Disbursements ..........................                                16
Table 4: Project Implementation ........................                                16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclos,_ without World Bank authorization.



Table 5: Project Costs and Financing .......................... . 17
A. Project Cousi
B. Financing
Table 6: Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
A. Economic Impact .................................. 18
B. Financial Impact .................................. 18
C. Studies ........................................ 19
Table 7: Status of Covenants ................................. 20
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources ............................... 21
A. Staff Inputs   ..................................... 21
B. Missions ....................................... 22
Annexes
Annex  1: Total Area Planted and  Replanted  (ha)  ..................... 23
Annex  2: Pine Plantations (sawlog circle). One ha model  ................ 24
Annex  3: Pine Plantations (pulpwood circle). One ha model  .............. 2s
Annex 4: Eucalyptus Plantations (pulpwood). One ha model ............  26
Annex 5: Funds Requested and Approved/Released during the
Project Period ................................. 27
Annex 6: Project Costs by Year ............................... 28
Annex 7: Stumpage Fees .................................... 29
Map: IBRD #15896



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT. PHASE II
(CREDIT 1229-TA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase II,
for which Credit 1229-TA (US$ 12.0 million) was approved on April 13, 1982. The Credit tbecame
effective on March 16, 1983. The Credit closing date was extended three times from December 31, 1987
to December 31, 1990.
The PCk was jointly prepared by the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Coopera:ive Program, FAU/f'P, (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part
11).
Preparation of tWs PK.R was started during FAO/CP's field visit to the project in September
1990. The report is based inter-al} n the findings of the FAO/CP mission during its field visit, and the
information gathered from the SLaff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports.
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
(Credit 1229-TA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.         The primary objective of the Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase II was to increase the supply
of wood for industrial purposes by establishing new plantations, maintain.ng the plantations estabiishe,
under Phase I, and developing infrastructure and forestry services within the plantations. The project -  -
sought to consolidate and strengthen the project imriementation and management capacity estabi...;
under Phase I. Major project components included: the maintenance of about 18,00 ha of Pha;e I
plantations, establishment of about 10,000 ha of new plantations and the construction of forest roads,
tracks, fire breaks, fire towers and other buildings. The plantations were established mainly to provide
supplies to the Southern Paper Mills (SPM) which was commissioned in 1985 and is currently the largest
mill in the country with a capacity of 60,000 tons of finished paper. The project was to be executed by
the Forestry and Beekeeping Division (FBD) with the assistance of three long-term consultants.
Implementation Experience
2.         The country faced many economic difficulties during the implementation period and the
consequent shortages of Government funds caused serious delays in implementation. For most of the
project years, less than half of the funds requested were approved. Under these circumstances, project
management decided to speed up the afforestation program at the expense of silvicultural practices and
infrastructure development. This decision was also prompted by the fire in September 1983 that destroyed
about 5,000 ha of plantations established under Phase 1. The fires were not fought effectively due to lack
of suitable fire fighting equipment. Smooth implementation of the project was also hampered by the
unsatisfactory performance of the consultants and the strained relationship between the consultants and
project management. During the early stages of implementation, the project was plagued with serious
problems of managemeni, lack of funds, delayed procurement of equipment and machinery, a poor
relationship between consultants and management, and deteriorating staff morale. In 1984/1985, the
problems became so serious that the Bank's supervision missions recommended that the Gov- ment
transfer the management of the plantations to other institutions. This recommendation .   not
implemented.
3.         Project performance improved markedly from 1986 onwards, mainly due to staff dedication
and project management's efforts to respond to staff needs and to provide some non-monetary incentives.
Staff morale was also raised by the establishment of new plantations following project management's
decision to g ve priority to afforestation. The change in performance induced the Bank to extend the credit
closing date by three years, thus enabling the project to achieve some of its non-afforestation components
and to exceed its afforestation targets. At completion, project costs amounted to about Tsh 432.6 million
(US$ 9.9 million) against the appraisal estimate of Tsh 123.6 million (US$ 15.0 million).



iv
Results
4.         The main objective of establishing resources necessary to supply the emerging wood-based
industry has been achieved by the project. The planting and replanting targets of pine and eucalyptus have
been exceeded: 22,500 ha against 10,760 ha ervisaged at appraisal. The achievements in silvicultural
activities were, however, below target. The plantations are of good quality and are expected to produce
high quality timber and paper products. As a result of the quality of the plantations and the increase in
stumpage fees, the financial rate of return is 18%, which is higher than what was anticipated at appraisal.
The economic rate of return is also higher than what was calculated at appraisal: 33% against 30%.
5.         The project has had a positive impact on the forestry sub-sector by enabling the country to
be self-sufficient in industrial wood. The project has also had a positive impact on the environment in
general as the availability of the plantation wood will reduce the pressure on the natural forests. In the
project area, the project's environmental impact, particularly in the reduction of wind movement and the
return of wildlife, is widely acknowledged.
Sustainability
6.         The project can provide a sustainable supply of high quality raw material to the wood-based
industry. The project management and staff are capable of managing this resource. The sustainability of
production will greatly depend on continued government support, availability of funds for operation,
maintenance and replacement of equipment, the retention of high quality staff, and careful protection of
the resource. It would be difficult to achieve the above if the project were to be managed under a normal
Government department subject to lengthy bureaucratic procedures. A management system with an
autonomous body and an assured source of finance is vital for the long-term sustainability of the project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.         The main lessons to be learned -roin the project are:
-      care needs to be taken to ensure that an item designated to become a condition of
project effectiveness is, in fact, of such importance that project implementation
cannot commence without it;
-      selection and recruitment of consultants should not be rushed e en if project start-
up is delayed;
-      where the provision of monetary incentives to project staff (working in remote
areas) is not possible, the provision of other non-monetary incentives may be
equally appreciated and contribute to staff morale and continuity;
-      careful assessment of Government capability to allocate sufficient funding is
necessary during project appraisal;
-      staff continuity is an essential ingredient to successful project implementation;
-      the management of industrial plantations, such as Sao Hill, cannot be successfully
carried out under normal Government bureaucracy; and
-      projects of this nature should work in harmony with the local authorities and
population. Linkages should be established from the onset.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE 11
(Credit 1229-TA)
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name             Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase II
Credit No.                1229-TA
RVP Unit                 AF6AG
Country                  Tanzania
Sector              :   Agriculture
Sub-sector               Forestry
2. Background
2.1    One of the Government of Tanzania's long-term objectives in the forestry sub-sector has been to
develop its forest resources *o meet the country's needs for wood and wood products and to earn foreign
exchange through exports. To this end, Tanzania explored the possibility of establishing large-scale
industrial plantations for both pulp and timber production. A number of studies carried out in the mid-
1960s and observations of existing plantations indicated the feasibility of establishing successful industrial
plantations of pine and eucalyptus at Sao Hill.
2.2    Based on these findings, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) requested World Bank assistance
in establishing plantations. Hence the Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan 1307-TA) was initiated in 1976
with World Bank support. This project, which was considered the first phase of a long-term industrial
forest development program, was completed in 1982 after successfully establishing about 17,800 ha of
plantations, besides undertaking maintenance of existing plantations and extending/maintaining roads.
During this period, the Government obtained assistance from several donors (including the World Bank)
to establish a pulp and paper mill. The mill, Southern Paper Mills (SPM), with a capacity of 60,000 tons
of finished paper, was commissioned in 1985. The SPM is located close to the Sao Hill plantations and
is the largest mill in tte country, currently operating for the domestic and foreign markets. The
Government also established within the plantations the Sao Hill Sawmill (SHS) which is now producing
timber from mature plantations.
2.3   In pursuance of its long-term development policy in the forestry sub-sector, and given the planned
development of the wood-based industry in the area, it was considered necessary to expand the plantations
to ensure a sustainable supply of logs. The Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase II, was therefore initiated
in 1982 with the assistance of the World Bank. The project was identified and prepared by the CP in
1980 and appraised by the Bank in 1981.



- 2-
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The main objective of the Sao Hill Forestry Project, Phase II was to hicrease the supply of
inutistrial wood by establishing new plantations, maintaining the plantations developed under Phase 1, and
developing infrastructure and forestry services within the plantations.  In addition, it proposed to
consolidate and strengthen the project implementation and management capacity established under Phase
I.
3.2   Specific project components consisted of the following:
(a)    The maintenance of about 18,000 ha of Phase I fore;t plantations for the production of
sawlogs and pulpwood;
(b)    Establishment and development of about 10,000 ha of new forest plantations for
production of sawlogs and pulpwood;
(c)    Construction oi about 160 km of forest secondary roads and 725 km of tracks, the
upgradin- of some 120 km of secondary forest roads to primary forest roads, and the
maintenance of existing and new roads and tracks;
(d)    Construction of 58 staff houses and other buildings and structures and the maintenance
of existing and new houses and buildings;
(e)    Strengthening of the mechanical engineering services and financial and management
information systems of the project, and the provision of short study tours for selected
project staff;
(f)    Short-term consultancies and studies to review the project's fire protection system; the
die-back problem of pine trees in the Sao Hill; stumpage fees and pricing of forestry
products in the country; and existing and planned programs for national village
afforestation.
3.3    The project, to be implemented over five years, was to be executed by the Forestry and
Beekeeping Division (FBD) of the Ministry of Land, Natural Resources and Tourism. Total project costs
were estimated at Tsh 123.6 million (US$ 15.0 million) with a foreign exchange component of 41%
(US$6.2 million equivalent).
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project was designed in light of the lessons learned in Phase I. The objectives were simple
and clear and all the componeats were relevant, designed along classical forestry lines, and
straightforward to implement. Responsibility for implementation and management was placed on the FBD,
thus simplifying project execution. Responsibilities for project management were clearly demarcated
between the FBD and the Ministry, but no formal link was established between the project and the local
authorities. The simplicity of design and the clearly defined physical units upon which progress could be
monitored allowed timely intervention and contributed to the success of the project.



-3-
4.2   In retrospect, it can be -aid that the omission of an applied research component for tree
improvsment w-as a flaw in project design, considering the potential benefits likely to come from the
supply of gi.netically improved seed and the likelihood of increased wood production and quality In
addition, the exclusion of local community participation in the planting and supply of wood was short-
sighted, as this activity would have generated an important additional source of raw material (para. 8.2).
It can also be said that project design underestimated the difficulties involved in securing adequate
Government funds and labor for the project.
5. Project Implementation
5.1    The project was ,   ied 'vith problems during its early stages of implementation. Credit
effectiveness had to be extended i .ce from the original date of August 19, 1982 to March 16, 1983, until
the recruitment of the long-term consultants had taken place, this being a condition for project/credit
effectiveness. Although the deterred credit effectiveness did not affect the afforestation program because
of the provision for retroactive financing, tne issue of consultant recruitment occupied a great deal of
project management time and there was considerable urgency to settle this i3sue. Realizing its delay, and
responding to pressure exerted on it, the project management rushed through the recruitment of
con'sultants whose performance proved :o be less than satisfactory (paras 11.1-11.2).
5.2    The project faced one of its most serious difficulties in September 1983 when about 5,000 ha of
plantations established under Phase I were destroyed by fire. Not having procured suitable fire fighting
equipment or having put in place sufficient protection measures, the project was not able to fight the fires
effectively. This incident was a shock both to the project management and to the staff, and badly affected
their morale. Staff morale was further affected by the continuous Government underfunding of the
project.
5.3    Project start-up and implementation coincided with a period of poor economic performance in
Tanzania which had started during the implementation of Phase I. Therefore, difficulties with fundir.g
should have been ?.-+icipated and remedies incorporated. The most outstanding constraint to project
implementation remained shortage of funds throughout. For most of the project years, funds approved
by Government were less than 50% of what was requested (Annex 5). Project Management reacted by
giving priority to the afforestation program at the expense of silvicultural practices and construction of
roads and buildings. This approach paid off because, not only did the increased afforestation improve staff
morale, it also succeeded in achieving the plantation targets and the replanting of the areas damaged by
fire within the envisaged implementation peciod of five years. On the other hand, execution of the other
components (i.e., silviculture and the construction of roads and buildings) and the studies required the
extension of the credit closing date three times from December 31, 1987 to December 31, 1990.
5.4    Procurement of equipment was slow due to lengthy Government procedures and a lack of strong
administrative support from the Ministrv and the FBD in Dar-es-Salaam, at least in the initial years.
Major procurement of equipment, incluu.  the fire fighting equipment, did not take place until 1985/86.
Notwithstanding the delay in procurement, faulty fire fighting equipment, such as water pumps, also
reduced the effectiveness of the equipment. Another procurement problem arose when the installation of
the radio communication system was awarded to an unqualified company, following local bidding
procedures insisted on by the Central Tender Board. More emphasis was placed oni lower bidding than



-4-
on the suitability of equipment (particularly taking standardization into account). The project workshop
contains a striking variety of vehicles and equipment makes and models. In addition, procurement of
some equipment, such as radio and other communication equipment, did not inclide essential spare parts.
As a result, some equipment is already non-operational due to a lack of spares or batteries, although it
was only installed in 1987
5.5    Despite its problems, the project has been successful in meeting its primary objectives and has
even exceeded its targe.s. It should be recalled, however, that the project passed through trying periods,
particularly in the early years. In 1984/1985, the problems were so grave that the B-nk's supervision
missions recommended that the Government transfer the management of the plantation from the FBD
to other institutions such as th.: SPM. To the credit of the project management and staff, however, project
performance from this point improved dramatically, prompting the extension of the credit. The main
reason for the change was the dedication of the staff and the project management's responsiveness to staff
needs. Project management provided non-monetary incentives to the staff in the form of agricultural land
for the cultivation of food crops (preparing this land when possible) and better quality housing.
Management also engaged itself in dialogue with c .... ual labor and addressed some of their problems (e.g.
providing transport to and from distant villages). In addition, a different management system was
introduced in the Plantation Divisions. First, the number of divisions was increased from three to four.
Second, each division was to be managed for a specific output (i.e., sawlog or pulpwood). Third, the
managers of Plantation Divisions were made totally responsible for managing their plantations, including
fire protection. All this created a better understanding between project staff and management and
conferred a higher level of accountability to the staff. The continuity of staff in working with the project
also helped.
6. Proiect Results
6.1    The project has successfully achieved its main objective of establishing resources necessary to
supply the wood-based industry. The afforestation targets of the project (new planting and replanting)
greatly exceeded those established at appraisal: 22,500 against 10,760 ha (excluding replanting of burned
and failed areas). The plantations are of good quality and are expected to yield substantial and high
quality wood (Annexes 1 to 4). A recent study conducted by consultants under the project concluded that
sufficient plantations have been established by the project and that no new plantings are necessary at least
for the next decade, save that of replanting logged areas.
6.2    The project has been implemented along the lines envisaged at appraisal and there were no
changes in objectives. The project exceeded its planting targets mainly as a result of the shift in emphasis
towards afforestation in the earlier years and the prolonged implementation period. Other components
were delayed in the initial years but were executed later, particularly during the project extension period.
The construction of buildings has exceeded appraisal targets. With regard to roads, project management
decided to substantially increase the construction of secondary roads, abandoning th-e upgrading of
secondary roads and the construction of new tracks. At present, this choice does not seem to have
seriously affected access to the plantations, but whether large vehicles and equipment will be able to enter
all the plantation areas in the future remains to be seen. The standard of the roads constructed is good.
Of all the project activities, pruning and weeding were below the appraisal expectations, accounting for
48% and 97% of targets respectively. In addition to the non-availability of funds, these activities suffered.
from labor shortage. Labor availability in the project area was grossly overestimated at appraisal and the



-5-
project had to transport labor from areas as far as 100 km away. A mechanical engineer was recruited
but did not engage in training; hence, the objective of strengthening the mechanical engineering services
was only partially met. Some short study tours for selected project staff were undertaken.
6.3   The project's financial rate of return based on an individual hectare model for pine sawlog, pine
pulpwood and eucalyptus is 18%. This is higher than the 7% calculated at appraisal due to the increased
yit!is assumed by the PCR and to the increase in stumpage fees in recent years (Annex 7). The economic
rate of return calculated for the pine sawlog plantations over 25 years, pine pulpwood over 20 years and
eucalyptus over 10 year rotation (with three coppices) has been estimated at 33%, slightly higher than
the 30% estimated at appraisal.
6.4    Overall, the project's impact on the forestry sub-sector and on the environment has been
commendable. The project has enabled the country to become self-sufficient in industrial timber, thus
reducing the pressure on the natural forest resources. In addition, it will enable the pulp and paper mill
as well as the sawmill to operate at full capacity on a sustainable basis for the future. The effect of this
will be to satisfy the domestic market (thus substituting imports of paper and paper products) and possibly
enable the exportation of high quality paper and related products.
6.5   The project's impact on the environment has been beneficial, and this has been readily recognized
by local inhabitants. Reduction of wind movements, retention and slow release of precipitation, and the
return of wildlife, particularly small animals, have been singled out by local inhabitants as some of the
important project benefits. Mention has also been made of the improved living conditions brought about
by the increase in employment opportunities, the increased availability of fuelwood and easy transport
due to improved access. The project has also prompted spontaneous private local planting of pine and
eucalyptus following the project's example. This trend is rapidly increasing to the extent that the project
is unable to cope with the growing demand for seedlings and technical advice.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1   The plantations established by the project can provide sustainable production to the wood-based
industry. The project management and staff have proven that they can establish and manage plantations
even under difficult conditions. The sustainability of production will, however, hinge on continued
government support, availability of adequate funds for operation, maintenance and replacement of
equipment, the retention of high quality staff and careful protection of the resource from fire, disease and
encroachment. It would be difficult to achieve the above if the project were to be managed under a
normal Government department with all the lengthy bureaucratic procedures that can impede rapid
decision-making. The value of the resource warrants vesting management with full responsibiity and
sufficient autonomy and making management accountable for all the operations and results.
7.2    At present, the FBD and the project management are concerned about the future of the project
after the cessation of World Bank support. The FBD has proposed to the Governmnent that an autonomous
body be established that can manage the platitations using funds from the Government or retained funds
from the royalties collected. Proposals from the users of the raw material have also been made. The SPM
has proposed to take over and incorporate the management of the plantations as part of its current
operation. The Sao Hill Sawmill, on the other hand, has suggested to Government that FBD be left to



- 6 -
manage the plantations and its activities be expanded to harvesting so that the project would sell sorted
logs at the roadside.
7.3   It is clear from the above that the FBD and the industry consider the future management of the
plantations to be crucial for the sustainability of production. They have all alerted the Government that
an early decision is necessary and have indicated their preferred management type. The Government is
presently discussing the matter and is erpected to decide soon. It is unfortunate that the decision was not
taken much earlier so that the prevailing uncertainty could have been avoided. The main aim now should
be to remove this uncertainty before the confidence and morale of the management and staff are affected.
7.4    Sustainable production sufficient for the current wood-based industry can be assured by either
applying a system of two separate pulpwood and sawlog working circles or a fully integrated
sawlog/pulpwood operation. The latter would, of course, be more efficient in utilizing the raw material
but more demanding in terms of organization and management. At present, it is clearly seen that material
suitable for pulpwood, but not for sawing, is being wasted in sawlog circles, while big logs found in the
pulpwood circle are being chipped instead of being sawn. Such waste should be avoided, regardless of
the system of management, and efficient utilization of the resources should be part and parcel of the
management plan.
8. Bank Performance
8.1    The Bank's decision to support a second phase plantation project at Sao Hill was sound, as the
project will contribute to the long-term development of the wood-based industry. This project is one of
the few to have been successfully implemented in Tanzania during the 1980s, in spite of the prevailing
economic problems. The project was straightforward and well focussed, - was the delineation of
implementation and management responsibilities. These characteristics of the project were certainly
important factors in the successful implementation of the project.
8.2   In retrospect, it can be said that the appraisal mission failed to grasp the importance of tree
planting to the local population when it excluded the village woodlot development component proposed
by the preparation mission and substituted it with a study on national village afforestation. The latter
study has also not been carried out by the project. It is unfortunate that the opportunity to support or
encourage tree planting by the local population was missed in a place where there is a strong desire to
plant trees. The appraisal mission was, however, correct in restricting the plantation to Sao Hill and
reducing project costs by half, compared to the proposals made at the time of project preparation.
Nevertheless, it fell short of proposing a workable system of advancing funds to the project, even though
it could have been anticipated that the Government would face difficulties in securing the annual funds
for the project in a time of worsening economic conditions.
8.3    Making the recruitment of consultants a condition for credit effectiveness wrongly implied that
this was the most important element of the project, whereas the procurement of fire fighting equipment
and the preparation of a plan for fire protection would have been a more appropriate condition for
effectiveness, given the high forest fire risks in the area. Designating an expatriate consultant as Assistant
Project Manager with authority over civil servants should have been recognized as a potentially
controversial issue. In fact, the consultant was never given this authority, and this remained a matter of



-7-
contention until the project nominated a Tanzanian Assistant Manager and ti.e consultant's responsibility
was restricted to finance and planning.
8.4    The Bank supervised the project intensively as the situation warranted. The supervision missions
were extremely helpful in identifying the main problems facing the project, in advising project
management on how to solve the;.-, and in continuously signaling to Government the difficulties faced
by the project and the need to provide political and financial support. It is doubtful whether the project's
success would have achieved the presenlt level if the supervision missions had not critically reviewed the
project and consistently attemp.ed .o identify and address the issues. The supervision mission
recommendation to extend the project was farsighted and gave the project an opportunity to step up the
implementation of the non-afforestation components. This also enabled the project to carry out two
thorough studies not foreseen at appraisal (i.e., the potential of mechanical wood industry development
and the integration of operations which included a study on royalties). Following the recommendations
of the latter study, the Government raised the stumpage fees to bring them closer to cost recovery levels.
8.5    The following lessons may be learned from the implementation of the Sao Hill Forestry Project:
(a)    Great care needs to be taken to ensure that an item designated to become a condition of
project effectiveness is, in fact, of such importance that project implementation cannot
commence without it;
(b)    Selection and recruitment of consultants should not be rushed even if project start-up is
delayed;
(c)    When the provision of monetary incentives to project staff (working in remote areas) is not
possible, other non-monetary incentives may be equally appreciated and contribute to staff
morale and continuity;
(d)    Careful assessment of Government capability to allocate sufficient funding is necessary
during project appraisal;
(e)    Staff continuity is an essential ingredient to successful implementation of projects;
(e     The management of industrial plantations such as in Sao Hill cannot be successfully carried
out under normal government bureaucracy; and
(g)    Projects of this nature should work in harmony with the local authorities and population and
linkages should be established from the onset.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The Government has supported the project, and the shortage of funds experienced during
project implementation should not be construed as a lack of Government support, but rather the result
of economic difficulties. This is acknowledged by the project management who suffered most from the
shortage of Government funds. The Borrower designated the project as one of its priorities, and as such
allocated relatively large amounts of resources to the project. Within the Ministry's budget, the project



-8-
obtained the lion's share. When shortage of material was a chronic problem, the Government issued
speci, .rmits to procure materials such as cement, steel, oil and fuel. Nevertheless, although dictated
by economic difficulties, the fact remains that the Government did not fulfill its commitment to provide
adequate funds to complete implementation on time, nor did it review project targets and objectives in
line with available resources.
9.2         The Borrower's contribution to project preparation was the successful implementation of
Phase I and inclusion of the lessons learned in Phase 11. The project therefore had a good start even
though it later deteriorot4 because of adverse events (paras 5.2 - 5.4) which could have been avoided
by stronger Government support. Consequently, project management's effectiveness declined dangerously,
putting the plantations at risk. Project management, however, has shown a remarkable capacity to
successfully establish forest plantations under difficult conditions and, at the same time, to raise staff
morale, although this often resulted in a lack of achievement in other components. The Borrower should
be commended for allowing staff to continue working for the project. Most of the senior and professional
staff, including the Project Manager, have been working for the project since its inception (some of them
were employed under Phase 1).
9.3         The Borrower made what use it could out of the long-term consultants, but was unable to
provide them with the benefits they had expected, mainly in accommodation, with some consequent
failure in relationship, morale and performance. Good use was made of the short-term consultants who
dealt with forestry technical matters. Full use was not made of the results of the plantation survey and
the 1987 aerial photography. No regular mapping work was carried out by the project, and this needs to
be corrected.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1       In spite of the problems faced by the project, particularly concerning the long-term
consultants and the weak management of the project in the early years, the working relationship between
the Borrower and the Bank has remained good throughout. There was initially some bitterness on the part
of the project managem.nt with regard to the pressure exerted on them to recruit consultants
expeditiously, especially when their eventual performance was below expectation. This did not spoil the
good relationship, however, because both the project management and the supervision missions
recognized the importance of making the project successful. In addition, the views of both parties on the
consultants became closer as time passed. The relationship between 'he Bank and project management
also remained remarkably good even when the Bank requested that the Government transfer the
management of the project away from the FBD.
11. Consulting Services and Studies
11.1       Early calls for strengthening financial management, planning procedures and mechanical
engineering services resulted in the conditional recruitment of three long-term consultants: an Assistant
Project Manager (Finance and Planning); a Workshop Manager; and a Work-Study Specialist.
Recruitment of the first two consultants was a condition for credit effectiveness. These consultants were
appointed for three years but the Assistant Project Manager (Finance and Planning) remained only one
year before he was terminated due to illness, while the Work-Study Specialist was terminated for poor



-9-
performance after two years. The Workshop Manager stayed for five years, his contract hav , been
extended by two years.
11.2       In general, the long-term consultant services did not meet expectations, because of both the
environment in which they were operating, and a lack of clear understanding of their roles and functions.
Recognition is given to the contribution of the Workshop Manager in organizing initial repair of vehicles
and in preparing bid tender documents. The disorganized state of the vehicle park, the lack of shade and
the non-availability of some necessary workshop equipment (because they were not installed), however,
reflect a lack of planning and work discipline.
11.3       The project undertook three studies identified at appraisal, i.e., a study of the fire protection
system, a study of die-back problems of pine trees and a review of the stumpage fees and prices of
forestry products. The first two studies were carried out by FAO and the last one by a private consultant.
Although useful, the recommendations of the first two studies were not followed immediately because of
problems of funding and procurement of equipment. The recommendations of the third study were
ignored for many years, necessitating a new up-to-date study in 1989 (para. 11.4). The recommendations
concerning stumpage fees contained in this follow-up study were accepted by Government (Annex 7).
Another study envisaged at appraisal, viz, national village afforestation, was never initiated because this
was later expected to be covered under a different authority on wood energy.
11.4       The development of the pulp and paper mill and the emphasis being placed on management
were supported by two thoroughly professional studies covering "Mechanical Wood Industry" and
"Integration of Operations". These studies were not included at the time of appraisal, but resulted from
increased awareness of the need for better management, a forest plantation inventory including an aerial
survey, and a long overdue review and increase in stumpage fees, which are now effective.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       On the whole, the Development Credit Agreement was adequate and straightforward.
However, requiring as a condition of Credit Effectiveness the recruitment of non-forestry consultants
caused some initial implementation problems (para 5.1). In addition, the project documents did not
clearly delineate the management functions of the expatriate Assistant Project Manager vis-a-vis the senior
project staff (para 8.3). Notwithstanding, the project documents proved to be valuable tools for project
management in the implementation process.
12.2       In the early years, there was a deficiency in accounting procedures and de,ays in withdrawal
applications and reporting of project progress. The Government was slow to establish a separate account
for the project, and auditing of accounts was consistently delayed because of a shortage of project
accountants in the earlier years and the time it took to carry out audits. At completion, the relevant data
on the project was recorded adequately, although some divergence is noticed between Plantation Divisions
data and the overall project data.



- 11 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE"
13. General Remarks
13.1       The Project Completion Report is neat, precise and adequate in factual information. We
commend the mission for good work.
13.2       We would like to commend all World Bank Supervision Missions for Sao Hill Forestry
Phase II. To us they were not supervision missions but task managers in arm whose interest and ours
was the same - i.e., to implement Sao Hill Forestry, Phase 1I successfully. Were it not for their
competence, understanding and determination, achievements in Phase 1I would have fallen below average.
We are proud that we have had the opportunity to work with them to make Sao Hill Forestry, Phase II
a success at a time when the economic performance of the country was very poor.
13.3       The Ministry of Natural Resource and Tourism made sure that the Sao Hill Forestry Project
got a share of the little cake available to them. Project management received unflinching support from
the Directorate and Ministry and, indeed, without their moral and material support, the picture would
have been different.
13.4       As the report is factual, our comments are directed to those areas where we consider
amplification to be necessary, as follows:
14. Project Design and Organization
14.1       Although the Project was designed in light of the lessons learned in Phase I, important issues
identified by the project Preparation Mission were played down by the Appraisal Mission. The issues
include:
(a)    Lack of maps, aerial photographs and sufficient management information. Simple and clear
solution of this problem was not given and consequently there was very little improvement
in these areas in Phase II. Efforts to include development of aerial photography facilities
in the Project were not accepted.
(b)    Delays in Procurement continued in Phase II and were complicated by adverse conditionality
for Credit effectiveness. Funds should have been set aside for Direct procurement of urgent
items.
(c)    Staff remuneration continued to be insufficient in Phase II. Project designers did not
incorporate a system of allowances and incentives to motivate project staff. This was a
Transcript of letter received from the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and
Environment.



- 12 -
serious omission given the fact that while other World Bank projects in Tanzania such as
the Maize Project, Cashewnut Project, etc., performed poorly,
the Sao Hill Forest Project had been successful. Despite this omission, Project staff worked
hard and made Phase II another success at a time when the economic performance of the
country was poor.
(d)    The Project designers noted the contribution of top management in the success attained in
Phase I. They consequently tied up top management at Sao Hill for the whole period of
Phase I and Phase II without any incentive or inducement. An award should have been
made to those who made Phase I successful and those who were to be retained for Phase
II should have received appropriate inducement/incentives.
(e)    Project Designers noted that Government funding was short coming and scaled down the
Project but failed to include remedies in case the economic situation deteriorated. One such
remedial measure would have been direct disbursement as and when it was clear that the
Government had limited funds to use under the Reimbursement Procedure.
(f)    The conditionalities put in the loan agreement by the project designers were not only
adverse but were also uncalled for. The recruitment of a Workshop Manager, Workstudy
Specialist and Financial Expert were input from the Project emanating from lessons learned
in Phase I. These were being called in to increase efficiency and effectiveness and not to
start the Project. To delay the implementation of the Project until these people were
recruited allowed the Phase I work tempo to slow down. It took time for the work tempo
to pick up again after the loan was effective following the recruitment of these consultants.
(g)    The omission in the appraisal of the Pilot Village woodlot component was a blow to the
Project. Villagers, individuals and institutions continued to demand seedlings to establish
their own woodlots during phase II but the Project could not meet their demand.
Spontaneous private woodlots are on the increase in the area and their growth could have
increased more than ten fold had the Pilot Village Woodlot component been included. This
would have contributed a lot to the campaign by the Government to ameliorate the
environment by planting more trees.
15. Proiect Sustainabilitv
15.1       The sustainability of the Project hinges on continuous management and protection of the
forest plantations. This requires adequate and steady financing coupled with committed and well
riotivated staff.
15.2       Secondly, after two successful phases of cooperation between the World Bank and
Government of Tanzania in establishing and managing the forest plantation at Sao Hill, cooperation
should now be directed toward the use of the resource we have created. The World Bank Industrial
Division in cooperation with UNIDO, UNDP and FAO should now help the Government to develop
strategies to increase the capacities of the present industries and to establish new industries. Joint
ventures in industrial development should be considered. Protection of the resource against fire is another
area of cooperation.



- 13 -
16. Borrower Performance
16.1       The failure in relationship with the long term consultants was not due to an inability to
provide them with the expected benefits. The failure was due to:
(a)    Hurried (through pressure) recruitment which left no room for a criticai evaluation and
analysis of the qualifications/suitability of the candidates. The borrower was pressurized
to have the consultants as otherwise the loan would not be effective.
(b)   Misconception of the consultants as to who was their employer. They all demanded that
they were World Bank employees while the Project management insisted that their employer
was the Government of Tanzania. They thought that they were sent to the Project to
oversee implementation on behalf of the World Bank. Project management insisted that
they were employees who had to work with all other project employees to implement the
Project. This scenario was the source of bad relations and soared up whenever Project
management pointed out to the consultants that they were not delivering the goods they were
paid to deliver.
17. Project Completion Report
17.1 The format should have been discussed with the borrower and especially the guidelines for
preparing Part II. This would have facilitated speedy preparation of the same."
1 8. Economic Impact 21
18.1 We consider the mear. annual increments used to be rather low. We consider 20m3/ha/year
(sawlogs) 15-18m3/ha/year (Eucalyptus) to be more realistic. The Rotation ages are 20-25 years for
sawlogs; 15-20 years (pine pulpwood); and 8-10 years (Eucalyptus).
"   The format and guidelines for Part II were explained to FBD staff in Dar-es-Salaam by
FAO/CP but were not conveyed to the project management in Mafinga.
2/   See Table 6 for mean annual increments and rotation ages used in the PCR.



- 15 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Project Tide             Purpose          Year of     Status        Comments
Loan/Credit                              Appraisal
Sao Hill Forestry       Development of           1976     completed   This was the first
Project (Loan 1307. TA)    industrial plantations for                 phase of the
pulp and timber                               project in question.
Mufindi Pulp and Paper    Provision of technical  1983    completed   The mill is now
Project (Credit 1370-TA)   assistance for operation        except for  called Southem
and management, staff                TA       Paper Mills. The
training, and purchase            component  bulk of the
of some equipment.                            project's
plantations will be
used by this mill.
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item               Planned Date         Revised Date          Actual
Date
Identification Mission          05/1980                                 05/1980
Preparation Mission            10-11/1980                              10-11/1980
Appraisal Mission              04-05/1981                              04-05/1981
Credit Negotiation              02/1982                                 02/1982
Board Approval                 04/13/1982                              04/13/1982
Credit Signature               05/19/1982                              05/19/1982
Credit Effectiveness           08/19/1982           3/18/1983          03/16/1983
Project Completion              06/1987             06/1989             06/1990
Credit Closing                 12/31/1987          12/31/1990          12/31/1990
Account Closing                                                        6/30/1991



- 16 -
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursenents
Fiscal Years    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    1990    1991
(USS'OOO)
Appraisal      550   2,320  4,990  7,390   9,790   11,59   12,000    -      -       -
estimate                                            0
Actual          -    1,064  1,929  3,409   5,066   5,691   6,816   7,914   8,551   8,742
Actual as % of    0   46    39    46       52      49      57      66      71      73
estlmate
Table 4: Project Implenmentation
Indicator                    Unit         Appraisal        Actual
Estimate
A. AiFORESTATION
Seedling production                     Million              19.5           63
Site preparation                           ha            10,000         21,860
Planting and replanting                    ha            10,760         22,500
Weeding                                    ha            33,040         31,065
Pruning                                    ha            34,344         16,380
Thinnings                                  ha               264            820
Firebreak construction                    km                100         *4,870
Firebreak maintenance                     km              1,700          5,510
B. FOREST ROADS
Upgrading of secondary roads              km                120
New secondary roads                       km                160            345
New tracks                                km                725
Road and track maintenance                km              1,890          1,620
C. BUILDINGS/STRUCTURES
Staff houses                             Units               58             91
Divisional offices                       Units                1             14
Nurseries                                Units                3
Fire look-out towers                     Units                5              8
Water supply system                      Units                3             13
* Includes reclearing of established firebreaks at periodic intervals.



- 17 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimates *                       Actual         % of Appraisal
Estimate
Items               Local Costs          Foreign             Total
Exchange Costs
........................................................... (U&$OO0.............................
Afforestation                      3,538              1,140             4,678              2,876.3               62
Civil Works                         720                525               1,245             1,095.7               88
Vehicle, Machinery &                 135              1,360             1,495              1,508.5              101
Equipment
Project Administration             1,735               895              2,630              3,771.3              143
Technical Assistance and               -               790                790                654.1               83
Training
Total Base Cost                    6,128             4,710             10,838                   -                 -
Physical Contingencies              472                386                858                  -                  -
Price Contingencies                2,237              1,053             3,290                  -                  -
Total Project Cost                 8,837              6,150            14,987              9,905.9               66
B. Financing
Source                         Planned                                     rFn
US$ million            % of Total           USS  illion          % of Total
IDA                  12                     80                   8.7 1/                88
GOT                   3                      20                   1.2                  12
1/   This figure is proviuional as the project bar still to submit more withdrawal appEcationr.



- 18 -
Table 6: Project Results
A. Econmk Ilmpact 
Apprabal                 PCR
Estimate               Estimate
Economic Rate of Reum (%)                                            30                     33
Underbing Amptious
- New planting and replanting area (ha)                          10,760                 22,S00
- Mean annual increment - pine awlog (mI)                            IS        11           17       I/
- Mean annual increment - pine pulpwood (mi)                          IS       I/           14       I/
- Mean annual increment - eucalyptus (m')                            18        1/           20       I/
- Rotations - pine sawlog (years)                                    25                     2S
- Rotatiom - pine pulpwood (years)                                   25                     20
- Rotations - eucalyptus (years)                                      8                     10
- Number of coppice for eucalyl'tus (No.)                             3                      3
- Standard conversion factor (Na3.)                                   0.55                   0.80
* Ples refr to Amex 2.3. and 4 for costs.
I/ Mean aua incremets remer to utilirabh volumes. At appmriall the pheeias wer eVected to be managed under a fuy integated qsytemnle the PCR wicb
auume two         mgem  esyem for os and lpwood. The mn anal incmenbt of te PCR afe sinted an the bais of reomt inventy dra.
3. Finandal Impact
Appraid Estimate                           l!CR Fstimate
Fiancal Rate of Return
- Pine sawlogs-                                                                                    19%
- Pine pulpwood                                                                                    13%
- Eucalyptus                                               -                                       28%
- Overall plantations                                     7%                                       18%



- 19 -
C. Studies
Studies                  Purpose as defined at             Status               Impact of Study
appraisal
- Review of fire protection        To draw up an                   Conducted in 1984     Has been used as the
implementation plan for fire                         basis for the
protection.                                           establishment of the fire
protection system.
- Comprehensive study of ctumpage  To become the basis for         Conducted in 1983     The recommendations
fees                               revising/pricing of forestry                         were ignored until a
products.                                             second study was carried
out in 1988.
- Tree physiology                  Advise on the modus             Conducted in 1984     The study showed how to
operandi with regard to the                          tackle the problem and is
dieback problem in the                                included with current
plantations.                                         research programs.
- National vilage affore stion     To review existing programs   Not conducted; expected
and studies and formulatc a  to be carried out under the
National Village            energy sector study.
Afforestation Programme.
- Integration of operations        Not foreseen at aporaisal.  Conducted in 1988         Discussions are now
Aimed at studying the                                underway on how to
integration of operations and                        integrate the operations
review of stumpage fees.                             and under what
management. The
recommended stumpage
fees have been already
adopted.
- Mechanical wood industry         No: foreseen at aporaisal. To   Conducted in 1989     This study was the first
promote the establishment of                          to establish that the Sao
additional wood indutries to                          Hills have surplus wood
utilize surplus wood.                                for the next 10 years.



- 20 -
Table 7: Status of Covenant
Covenants under Credit              Subject              Deaditne for Complb"e                 Status
Ag8ait
1. Section 3.02 (a) and 5.01  Appointment of key staff, i.e.   This covenant was a condition   Complik - vith afler a delay
three long-term consultants  for credit effectiveness. The  of 4-9 monwhs.
deadline suggested was
December31, 1982.
2. Section 3.02 (b)          Recruitment of consultanta to    Not specified            Complied with except the
undeftake studies                                         study on National Village
Afforestation which was
transferred to other programs.
3. Section 3.03              Assignment of counterpart    Soon afRer the recruitment of    Complied with, but delayed.
staff                       the key staff
4. Section 3.04              Appointment of a qualified   From the project's inception  Complied with.
Project Manager
5. Section 3.05              Appointment of six additional   June 30, 1983             Complied with.
Forest Assistants
6. Section 3.06              Coordination of harvesting   June 30, 1983                Not complied with. Attempts
and logging                                               are now being mnade to
achieve this.
7. Section 3.07              Stumpage Fee Study           June 30, 1983                Complied with, but with
delay.
8. Section 4.01 (c)          Submission of audited        Not later than six months    Complied with, but with
accounts/SOEs                after the end of each fiscal  delays particularly in the
year.                        earlier years.
9. Section 4.02              Preparauon of Five-Year      July 31, 1983 and every five    Complied with.
Workplan                     years thereafter.



- 21 -
Tabde 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inouts by Stage of Proiect Cycle in Staff Weeks
Through             Negotiation                     Effectiveness
Bank Fiscal Year          Appraisal           Board Aporoval                 Supervi.. PCR   Total
1980                          8.5                                                             8.5
1981                         76.2                                                            76.2
1982                         19.5                   [.4                                      20.9
1983                                                                            8.6           8.6
1984                                                                           14.2          14.2
1985                                                                           11.6          11.6
1986                                                                            7.7           7.7
1987                                                                           19.5          19.5
1988                                                                           13.4          13.4
1989                                                                           10.7          10.7
1990                                                                            8.6           8.6
1991                                                                            8.7           8.7
104.20                  1.40                      103.0        208.60



- 22 -
B. Misions
Stge of       Month/Year       Number of      Dars in Field    Spedalization   Perfonnr ce        Types of
Project Cycle                      Per"IRS                      Reprsed 1/   Rating Stat           Proems
Iderttification     05/80             2                  20           E,F               -
Preparation        10-11/80           3                  77         E,F,FA              -
Appramil           04-05/81           4                  96         E,F,FA,J            -
Supervision 1       05/82              1                  3           FA
Supervision 2       12/82              1                 10           .-A              2               M
Supervision 3      05-06/83           2                  16          F,FA              2              M,O _/
Supervision 4       11/83             2                  18          F,FA              2             M,F,O 5/
Supervision 5       06/84             2                  14          F,FA              3            M,F,O _I
Supervision 6       12/84              1                  9            F               3               M,F
Supervision 7       03t85              I                  8            F               3              M,F
Supervision 8       11/85             2                  12          F,FA              3                F
Supervision 9      06-07/86            1                  9            F               3                F
Supervision 10      10/86              1                 13            F                2               F
Supervision 11     05-06/87            1                 11            F               2                F
Supervision 12     01-02/88           2                  26          F,FA              2                F
Supervision 13     06-07/88           2                  26          F,FA              3                F
Supervision 14     02-03/89           2                  30          F,FA               2               F
Supervision 15     03-04/90           2                  28         EN,FA              2                F
1/ E- Economist; EN= Engineer, F- Forester, FA= Financial Analyst; 1= Institutions Specialist
/ I - Problem free or minor problems; 2= mnoderate problems; 3 - major problems.
y/ F Fimancial; M= Managerial; T- Technical; P- Political; Om Other
_/ Shortage of foreign exchange, building material and spare parts.
5/ Fire outbreak destroying 5,000 ha of plantations.



Totl Area Plate and Replnd_ (ha) 1/
Year                        Ii.                         Toal           Eulyptus            Tota
P'ine &
N_            ~~~~SS*                             Pulpwod           EMYPh
81/82                  597               3,953            4,550            78                 4628
82/83                  482                463               945            428                 1373
83184                  297               2,.L6            2,413            123                2,536               X
8418S                  415                743             1,158            100                1,258
85/86                1.042                   -            1,042            218                1,260
86/87                1,052               1,991            3,043            100                3,143
87/88                  967               3,26S            4,232            175                4,407               a
88/89                1,014                 128            1.142            256                1,398
89/90                  464                995             1,459            492                1,9SI
90/91                  578                   -              578             -                  578
To"a                 6,908              13,654            20,562           1970              22,532
Soutn:         DivisonWl 5 yea  maaIg mt plas 1990-94 adjusted io koal amas presented un Sao Hill Project
Annua Repat for January to DeckXnber 1989, pIl figures for harvested aras 1983/84 to 1990/91.
1/             Excluding rephlaing of anrs destroyed by fire or replating of areas which failed.
52



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
Pine Plantations (sawlog cirde)
One ha Model
Year          Establshment &          Maintenance          Overheads         Total       Gross Production
Other Costs              Costs                and                              (i3)
Administrative
Costs
Tsh                   Tsh                 Tsh            Tsh
1                     3886                    176                 150           4,212
2                      967                    176                 150            1,293
3                      958                    176                 150           1,284
4                                             176                 150             326
5 } Pruning            1903                   176                 150           2,229
6                       -                     176                 ISO             326
7                       -                     176                 ISO             326
8 }runing              928                    176                 150           1,254
)                        -                    176                 150             326
10} Thinning           9712                   176                 150           10,038             62 I/
11)                                            176                 150            326
12                                             176                150             326
13                                             176                150             326
14 } Thinning          9629                    176                150            9,995             88 2/
IS }-                                          176                150             326
16                       -                     176                150             326
17                       -                     176                IS0             326
18                       -                     176                150             326
19) Thinning           8526                    176                150            8,852             93 3/
20)                                            176                 150             326
21                                             176                 150             326
22                                             176                 150             326
23                                             176                 150             326
24                                             176                 150             326
25                      833                    176                 150           1,159             288 4/
The estimated overbark sawlog and potential recoverable overbark pulpwood yields are as follows:
I/ 9.9 m' sawlog - 39.7 me pulpwood
Vi 28.2 ine sawlog - 42.2 ni' pulpwood
3/ 52.1 m' sawlog - 22.3 m' pulpwood
4/ 161.3 nil sawlog - 69.1 in' pulpwood



- 25 -
ANNEX 3
Pine Plantations (pulpwood arcle)
One ha Model
Year    Establishment and    Maintenance        Overbeads           Total             Gross
Other Costs          Costs             and                             Production
Administrative                          (mn)
Costs
Tsh               Tsh              Tsh               Tsb
1            3886                176             150                4,212
2             967                176              150               1,293
3             958                176              IS0               1,284
4                                176              ISO                 326
5             1903               176              ISO               2,229
6                                176              150                 326
7                                176              150                 326
8                                176              150                 326
9                                176              150                 326
10                               176              150                 326
1 1                              176              150                 326
12                               176              150                 326
13                               176              150                 326
14                               176              150                 326
15                               176              150                 326
16                               176              150                 326
17                               176              150                 326
18                               176              250                 326
19                               176              150                 326
20            1147               176              150                1,473           350 1/
1/ 350 mn gross overbark is estimated to yield 280 m' overbark of useable pulpwood.



- 26 -
ANNEX 4
Eucalyptus Plantations (pulpwood)
One ha Modd
Year      Establslunent Costs    Maintenance Costs      Overheads and           Total       Gross Production
Administrative Costs                        (MI)
Tsh                  Tsh                   Tsh
Tsh
1                  3,886                 176                     150           4,212
2                    967                 176                     ISO           1,243
3                    958                 176                     IS0           1,284
4                                        176                     150            326
5                                        176                     150             326
6                                        176                     150             326
7                                        176                     150             326
8                                        176                     150             326
9                                        176                     150             266
10                  1147                  176                    IS0           1,473           2501/
Coppice Rotations
Year      Establishment    Maintenance    Overheads and      Total Costs      Crop         Adjustment
Costs           Costs        Administrative                   Production     production
Tsh             Tsh             Costs            Tsh            mn
Tsb
20          1,6672/           1,760             1,500           4,927         275        + 10% for 1st
rotation
30          1,667 2/          1,760             1,500           4,927         250          0% for 2nd
rotation
40          1,6672/           1,760             1,500           4,927         225        - 10% for 3rd
rotation
1/ The 250 m3 gross overbark is estimated to yield 200 n' overbark of usable pulpwood.
2/ Includes cost of Tsh 520/ha for 'singling' coppice shoots: reducing them to 2 shoots/stool in years 3-4.



- 27 -
ANNEX 5
Funds Requested and Approved/Released during the Project Period
(1)                  (2)                   (3)             Approved/Released
Project Year       Amount Requested           Amount              funds as % of
Approved/Released        requested
.................... Tsh'...........r...
1982/83                   32,094                  9,589             30
83/84                    34,641                 15,400             44
84/85                    17,300                  17,120            99
85/86                    47,778                  18,543            39
86/87                    45,442                 42,000             92
87/88                   175,821                 39,780             23
88/89                   110,000                 80,000             73
89/90                   178,000                 58,000             33
90/91                   275,000                 57,053             21



*em~~~~~~                 ~     ~4o lul l  svur~ " @ le rim  iur            FIU       o   t me'!       yr 81' lso  SW b'
I?  _ii ; __
";v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                      s   g   F es   m * d  _
o ss,'t                       Fi5Fii r'0'ri                Tiii'l        rm'u           nurr           ril          iTl'_
..s-met        *8# .t-.      u-u            Frill          ivr               C'tF        Flt           ftm@'
Sm                                                               ryam           rum           I V nm  W
goo                                                                     TMgrt g em   *     e Wser_
gt O'C         0  cSO 't1     Wait'          glet'                        V  W                                                                                  C M
t   og         ogg '11        t oil'se ~
j f ctr z |* zZ "e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wuwl   7 wT ;U"                                                                       POW _"
ecomssm                                     FilFT          57'T           min       t FRFI             111
lost*       *o  0 OIli       c o'et           #            *w t              tt           XTt          I"'at         gwi't                        ow _        _t"op
* otee     *        SWs      0 C*           wigg'          0 ScCc        C't            Wow            190 s t   0,9r                           O2   _ P-A _,
00~ ~ ~ 8st meg.s e,so F7IFII                            TIlF           stiLtl TUT                   liii           u'r            *
ts Xowe      ot n@X        vife.                          ON's t    vlowt',  tlr#lg                     _,1,                                               wa
ogOM' s                       t gemo'l       *                            a0'  |  n et   meaf   ses  0619,           iat                      _     _
sosec  erie           sinai~ol      agCog            mo           iad           Wav        e                 'e*aa                        PL Usolms gpo
StoW           o We          go         t   a*M             em           lEVI           tUll           VU            VEN
BE.-t    t   I gi's            at's      t   5'C aleS' t C                               tisCu's                   *-Ws  te1as                                "   -
a emce        aee            ggg I 19ge,e                 I aoge         0155 cVO                     vieft5 5      1651*Am"  -
a"'eme        g.s.a         Ge1se          1e0el          0 a_'         cs             emce            Ie _1eon _
0 gg,sa        a gera9        t'eeams        maa              1ss         C Ott's       SeC"           mrow                                  NWe Isms  p  os
emasevAsm e
wags           s-a A          a_A                                                       Sm S-A    -A  i  A  $1A 1A
-A  o                                                                        mu
J"aA q suso P,ad



- 29 -
ANNEX 7
Stumpage Fees
Clearfelling
DBH Class"                   Fees as of July 1989          Revised Rates Shs./m' (ob)
Less than 20 cm. o.b. L      170                           300
10-20 cm                     190                           330
21-25 cm                     210                           650
26-30 cm                     250                           770
31-35 cm                     270                           830
36 cm or over                300                           920
Thinnings
(i) First Thinnings as for rates above with a reduction of 30%.
(ii) Second Thinnings as for rates above with a reduction of 20%.
(iii) Third Thinnings as for rates above with a reduction of 10%.
" Diameter at breast height
2v Over bark



MAP SECTION



iS  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,,, ,, iM l- D,-_fS-,  . us -. I CO
*I5*O5iA   ~~~~~~~                                 /~                                                                                   Ii
_    .    Sf   t   <  <  r@/ < 8 s b f :~~~~~~~v.ot 
-LI.si i    - C7  *   /   ~   ~  -d -    -
Ol /                   K--
-H.'                                         M -''
r~~~~~~~A  HIL FORESTRY HPIROJECT
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hs 9 - Pl.an  zt-at.ion reas
-   O.Oq.f, _                      'H~  Hi  ;'                                                            1  ,.7N"
. toi , r . . . Ph~~~~~~~''oiL Pa.'inAt
t '    t  /   kJtOSEIE*5  |  ,   ,  "           |            g~~~~~~~/



