Document of
The World Bank   FILE (COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3251-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
March 24, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00           =    US$0.12
US$1.00            -    TSh 8.25
US$1.00             =    SDR 0.87
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.25 which is close to the 1981 average
exchange rate. The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that of
January 31, 1982.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (i3)      35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)     =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFO                -    Assistant Forest Officer
APMFP              -    Assistant Project Manager (Finance and Planning)
APMO               -    Assistant Project Manager (Operations)
FA                 -    Forest Assistant
FAO/CP             -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative
Program
FAO/TCP            -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Technical
Cooperative Program
m3(r)              -    cubic meter (roundwood)
MNRT               -    Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
TWICO              -    Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:              SDR 10.5 million (US$12 million) equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Project             The Project would finance the further development of
Description:       about 18,000 ha of existing forest plantations and the
establishment and development of about 10,000 ha of new
plantations. The project would also support the
establishment of nurseries; fire control measures;
forest research; construction of secondary roads and
tracks; construction and maintenance of staff houses;
and strengthening of the Forest Division.
Benefits:  The project would meet growing domestic
demand for softwood for sawn timber and
pulp and paper production, as well as
reduce pressure on environmentally important
indigenous forests.
Risks:      There is a risk that the only pulpmill in
Tanzania will be late in starting up and
that the major sawmill in the project area
will not be expanded promptly enough. Both
risks are being reduced under separate
projects involving Bank Group and bilateral
financing.
Estimated
Project Costs:                                     Local  Foreign  Totall
US$ Million-----
Afforestation                                    3.5      1.1      4.6
Civil Works                                      0.7      0.5      1.2
Vehicles, machinery and equipment                0.1      1.4      1.5
Project administration                           1.7      0.9      2.6
Technical Assistance & Training                  0.1      0.7      0.8
Subtotal                                      6.1      4.6    10.7
Contingencies:
Physical                                       0.5      0.4      0.9
Price                                          2.3      1.1      3.4
Total                                         8.9      6.1    15.0
1The project would be cxempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                  Local      Foreign      Total
---------US$ Million-------
IDA                         5.8         6.2          12.0
Government                  3.0           -           3.0
8.8         6.2         15.0
Estimated
Disbursement:
----------------US$ Million-----------------
IDA Fiscal Year       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                 2.3      2.7      2.4      2.4      1.8    - 7 
Cumulative             2.3      5.0     7.4      9.8    11.6    12.0
Rate of Return:            30%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3634-TA dated March 18, 1982
Map:                       IBRD No. 15896



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 10.5 million (US$12.0
million) equivalent on standard terms to help finance a Sao Hill Forestry
Project - Phase II.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1
2.        An economic mission visited Tanzania in March and June 1980.  Its
report (3086-TA) dated January 23, 1981, has been distributed to the
Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is given in
Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Govern-
ment's development objectives resembled those of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-suffi-
ciency in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital intensive
agricultural projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as
high investment costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Govern-
ment's view to unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as widen-
ing income differentials and unequal opportunities for advancement in the
rural areas. In response to this situation, the national development
strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new priorities, enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based
rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and the develop-
ment of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with guidance
1This section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Third Technical Assistance Project dated January 21, 1982.



- 2 -
from the Party2, was expected to play the leading role, especially in the
reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the late
1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and finance,
the creation of numaerous parastatal bodies, the formation of ujamaa
(cooperative) villages, the decentralization of government (1972), and the
mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor.  Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to
1973.  This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s were becoming clear: How quickly could a country with limited
trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally administered
economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the expense of
efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford these costs?
What could be done to improve the growth rate of the monetized, productive
sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Agricultural produc-
tion also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this
time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious short-
fall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrain for cash. Food imports rose
from US$39 million in 1973 to US$149 million in 1974 and US$136 million in
1975. Export crop production also fell during this period and the barter
terms of trade fell by about one-third during these two years. As a
result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973 to
around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the recurrent
budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from TSh.416
million in 1973/74 to TSh.1061 million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program loan from the Bank. Under this program, import
levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development
2The single mainland political party at the time was TANU, but in
February 1977, it merged with Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi Party to form the
Revolutionary Party, or Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



3~ ~ ~~~~               
expenditures3 were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and
productive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and
infrastructure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, increased foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978. The
current account deficit fell to less than US$100 million in 1976 and less
than US$175 million in 1977 well below the 1975 deficit of US$340 million.
The Government made a net repayment of TSh. 24 million to the banking
system in 1976/77. During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were
relaxed at the same time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again.
The balance of payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn
down. Then, in October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from
Uganda. The resulting war, the oil price increases of 1979 and flooding
and drought in different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of
payments deficit and the Government built up major arrears on its import
payments for the first time since Independence. The domestic budget fell
heavily into deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% from
1977/78 to 1978/79 and revenues improved by only 10%. As a result, Govern-
ment borrowing from the banking system increased from TSh. 600 million in
1977/78 to more than TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the
major factor in money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this later
trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture, which
seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project experience and
the known marketed surpluses of food. Assuming a more realistic growth
rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture, overall GDP growth
since 1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum. With population
growing by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase in per capita
GDP of only 0.7% per annum. There also has been a change in the structure
of the economy over the past six years, away from the productive monetary
sector and towards subsistence and service activities. Excluding public
administration, commercial services and trade, the monetary sector has
3Government development expenditures account for about two-thirds of
public sector investment, which in turn accounts for 50-60% of total
investment.



- 4 -
grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past six years, well below the
population growth rate. This change in the structure of the economy has
been a major factor hampering the Government's efforts to mobilize domestic
resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20%-40% of domestic investment. However, the depend-
ence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975. The low
return on investments is reflected in the incremental capital-output ratio
for the monetary sector, which was around 4.5 at the start of the decade
and rose to between 6 and 7 by the end of it.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace
with population growth and if anything has fallen in more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted in Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction of the
Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transformation of the institutional structure of rural development
(through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement in the
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production direct-
ly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly, with-
out careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural
production. The trend towards greater public involvement in agriculture
has also continued and with the resultant proliferation of parastatals and
increasingly complex structure of administration, the available manpower
has been stretched even more thinly. This has resulted in weakened capaci-
ty for policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of
research and extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other
on-farm supplies and equipment. Also related to the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Roads,
railways and water transport have deteriorated owing to a lack of spare
parts, poor maintenance and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
II.       The decline in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks and
external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe deterio-
ration in the balance of payments over the past two to three years. Export



-5-
volumes are estimated to have fallen by 7% during 1980, to a level one-
third below the peaks of the mid-1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, the
terms of trade have declined by 27% since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a
sharp increase in import costs, especially for petroleum, at a time when
the overall level of export prices has been rising very slowly. Owing to
these adverse developments, the purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in
1980 was one-third lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level.
Part of this shortfall has been made good by additional external resources,
including a sharp increase in commodity and program aid to more than US$200
million in 1980, as well as by drawings under the IMF standby program
concluded in September 1980. But Tanzania has also had to utilize large
amounts of exceptional financing, including suppliers' credits and an
increase in import payment arrears. Despite this, the volume of imports
has had to be severely curtailed, and in 1980, was still no higher than in
the mid-1970s.
12.       Given the recent negative developments on coffee prices and oil
supplies, as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing,
there is little prospect for any immediate improvement in the balance of
payments, and present indications are that the situation will continue to
deteriorate during 1981. This continuing balance of payments constraint is
inevitably having a debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports
reducing production and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in
further falls in exports and available foreign exchange. This vicious
circle will be difficult to break, unless there is a substantial injection
of foreign exchange and major changes in domestic policies designed to
improve producer incentives, parastatal operations, import allocations, the
promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government planning and
budgeting. The Government has recently introduced a number of significant
measures--such as higher producer prices for coffee, sisal and tobacco and
the establishment of a Special Agricultural Account at the Bank of Tanzania
to ensure that a substantial proportion of foreign exchange earnings are
returned to the agricultural sector. This Export Rehabilitation Program is
being supported by a recently approved credit from IDA (Cr. No. 1133-TA).
13.       During negotiations of the Export Rehabilitation Credit in March
1981, agreement was also reached on a Memorandum of Understanding on
Follow-Up Measures. These included more restraint and selectiveness in the
public investment program, more emphasis in the recurrent budget on the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy, improved foreign exchange
budgeting, a re-examination of the roles (particularly purchasing mandates)
of the State-owned crop authorities, the introduction of more payment-by-
results schemes in industry and a review of subsidy and cost recovery
arrangements in the public sector. The Government also agreed that an
independent Advisory Group would be established to assist the Government in
preparing a comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       There has been some progress under the Export Rehabilitation
Program during the last several months. Cashewnut and coffee marketings
are substantially up over 1979-80 levels and the improved foreign exchange
allocation system appears to be working well. In its most recent agricul-
tural price review (July 1981), the Government has further increased prices
for some export crops and departed from the principle of uniform national
pricing for some major food crops, as this had led to considerable ineffi-
ciency at the marketing parastatals and improper signals to producers. The



- 6 -
public investment program has also been reduced for the first time since
Independence, and there is more emphasis on rehabilitating or improving the
use of existing capital facilities than on initiating new projects. The
Advisory Group has been established and has begun its work, which is
expected to be completed in April 1982. However, there is still con-
siderable progress to be made in further tailoring government plans to
resources likely to be available during the next five years, in
rationalizing the role of the public sector, in increasing incentives to
production and in concentrating resources on improving traditional
agricultures.
15.       Discussions with the IMF, however, on a possible credit under the
Extended Fund Facility have yet to bear fruit. Access to Fund facilities
was interrupted in December 1980, when the Government was found to be in
violation of important performance targets (on arrears, public spending and
domestic credit expansion) established only three months before. Discus-
sions of a possible EFF arrangement were started in March 1981 and were
meant to be consummated in June 1981, with the completion of a joint IMF-
Government study of the exchange rate problem. Instead, no agreement was
reached on the need for a devaluation or for other measures such as reduced
price controls and higher interest rates. Substantive discussions of these
questions are not likely to be resumed until early 1982; however, without
an early settlement with the IMF, it is difficult to envisage a viable plan
for economic recovery. This is particularly the case because of the very
scale of Tanzania's requirements for balance of payments support and a
necessary overlap between the IMF's policy concerns (e.g. the exchange
rate) and any effective measures for rehabilitating the productive sectors
of the economy.
16.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next two to three years. To sustain an increase in per capita GDP
will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this, there will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a
concerted effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and effi-
ciency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing
vital food production.
17.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap th'rough commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this include further drawings
from the IM4F (which could add US$100 million per annum), deferred payment
arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying countries,
additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and multilateral
sources, and a continued movement towards non-project assistance.



-7-
External Debt
18.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt
service burden is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment
and new borrowings, including some on commercial terms, are required to
meet the widening balance of payments gap. Such borrowings, together with
very poor export prospects, could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20%
during the 1980s. In 1980, it is estimated that the Bank held 14% of
Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed (for the Bank Group, it
was 28%) and received 25% of Tanzania's debt service (27% for the Bank
Group). This relatively high level of Bank exposure reflects in part the
impact of recent debt write-offs, totalling US$277 million in 1978 and
1979. We are projecting the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall
over the coming decade owing to the reduced IBRD component in the lending
program and the continued need for Tanzania to borrow funds on less conces-
sional terms from other sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
19.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 51 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$1008.3 million have so far
been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were
made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. A new IFC
investment ofUS$1.7 million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by
the Executive Directors on June 8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million
in metal product manufacturing was approved in May, 1979. Annex II
contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development. As agriculture and related activities
constitute the largest single sector in the economy, it has received 30% of
the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania. The lending program in
agriculture has featured three main types of projects: (a) regional rural
development projects focusing on production and the development of regional
infrastructure, (b) projects centered on specific crops (such as maize,
tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and (c) projects designed to improve general
support services (e.g. rural credit, grain storage). However in view of
past underfinancing of capital maintenance and replacement in the sector,



- 8 -
new Bank Group lending will focus on rehabilitation and use of existing
agricultural production and processing capacity, rather than on expansion
of such capacity.
21.        Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications. Transportation difficulties are
critical constraints to development in Tanzania. Indeed, the Government's
inability to ensure the timely availability of inputs or the regular
collection of crops has been a major bottleneck to increased production in
the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during the seventies, transport
investments were primarily concentrated around the Tanzania-Zambia Corridor
and since 1977, no systematic investment program has been prepared for the
subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations. The major objectives
of the proposed Bank Group activities are to develop a more balanced
investment program in transport and communications and to strengthen the
ministries and newly established national corporations responsible for
railways, ports, and telecommunications. In industry, future lending is
expected to provide modest support to well developed financial interme-
diaries like the Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB) which are intending to
consolidate their portfolio and place stress on capacity utilization and
export promotion. Shortages in skilled manpower are also a worsening
bottleneck to development. Bank Group involvement in education is expected
to continue support for specialized training and the development of the
secondary education sector to assist the Government in meeting its manpower
needs.
22.        In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has on
several occasions provided non-project credits in support of the Govern-
ment's efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The
first such credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most
recent, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April
1981 (see paragraph 14 for progress under the latter). Further assistance
of this kind would require agreement on an economic reform program as well
as renewed access to IMF facilities (see also paragraph 15).
23.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is to some extent the result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects problems in
project implementation, particularly in agriculture and rural development.
The causes of these difficulties are varied. To a large extent they arise
from the scarcity of suitably trained and experienced manpower, which call
for stepped-up efforts in higher education and specialized training, as
well as for sustained high levels of technical assistance in future project
design. Other implementation problems reflect the difficulty of identi-
fying and disseminating agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs
of smallholder farmers or result from administrative overextension in the
undertaking of a far-reaching development program. These problems have
been compounded by frequent and fundamental administrative changes, which
--though potentially the source of long-term benefits--have disrupted
orderly execution of some projects and made aspects of other project
designs obsolete. The Uganda war had some early impact on project imple-
mentation by diverting equipment and manpower away from development
purposes; however, by contributing to the current economic crisis, the
temporary logistical problems caused by the conflict have been superseded



by deeper and more lasting difficulties arising from a critical shortage of
essential goods and services. Most industrial facilities are working at
less than thirty percent of their installed capacity and the lack of
maintenance and operations funds (particularly for replacement equipment,
spare parts, and fuel) is compounding the already serious effects of
deferred maintenance of capital stock, especially in the agriculture
sector. Until the general economic situation improves, the outlook is for
continued difficulties in project implementation and uneven disbursements.
24.       Increased attention has been given to measures designed to
improve specific aspects of project implementation. Courses on Bank Group
procurement have been held in Dar es Salaam for relevant Government
officials. A special project implementation unit has been set up in the
Ministry of Agriculture and 11 Agricultural Development Services staff have
been attached to Bank Group financed projects in agriculture and rural
development. The Government has assigned responsibility for the monitoring
of project performance to a specialized unit at the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs. Since February 1977 there has been a Government/Bank
Group review of implementation problems on a project-by-project basis. In
October 1980, a major Country Implementation Review was held in Arusha at
which all Bank-financed agricultural projects were examined, with a view to
discussing sectoral issues in addition to project-related matters. A
similar high level meeting to address countrywide issues in other sectors
as well, is now scheduled for later this year.
Disbursements
25.       Despite the difficulties summarized in paragraph 23 above,
disbursements of loans and credits in Tanzania have remained relatively
steady: disbursements grew from US$58 million in FY78 to US$78 million in
FY80 and levelled off at US$81 million in FY81. Intensive supervision and,
in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project, timely assistance from
co-financiers have reduced implementation problems. Even in the
agricultural sector, important improvements have been noted recently in
some projects such as Dairy Development and Tabora Rural Development.
East African Community (EAC)
26.       Major developments affecting the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and more recent developments were reported in a statement to the
Executive Directors during their meeting of May 6, 1980. The three former
Partner States have employed Dr. Victor Umbricht as an independent mediator
to recommend an appropriate disposition of the assets and liabilities of
the Community corporations and the General Fund Services. Dr. Umbricht has
visited East Africa on numerous occasions, has employed consultants to
assist in the appraisal of Community assets and liabilities, and has in
March 1980 made formal recommendations on the allocation of these assets
and liabilities. Meetings at ministerial level to discuss the Mediator's
proposals were held in Arusha in May 1980, and in Kampala in February
1981. A follow-up meeting was held in Nairobi on August 6 when it was
decided to commence formal negotiations in December 1981 on the basis of
the Mediator's proposals. Meanwhile, the Mediator's report and recommenda-
tions on the future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB)



- 10 -
have been accepted by the Partner States and the revised EADB Charter,
along with the Treaty to enact the new Charter, have been ratified by the
three Governments.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
27.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy (para. 10). Most agricultural production
is from smallholdings using family labor. Large-scale agriculture is
confined to a small number of private estates and state farms producing
sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, rice and livestock. Estate production has
diminished in importance since Independence in 1961 and the State farm
program remains small. Seven agricultural commodities (coffee, cotton,
cloves, sisal, cashews, tea and tobacco) account for more than two-thirds
of total export earnings. Tanzania's livestock herd, which is the second
largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over the 40% of the country which
is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed along
traditional lines.
28.       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been
disappointing. During the seventies, subsistence production appears to
have barely kept pace with population growth. Indeed, early in the decade,
food production was very problematical and Tanzania became increasingly
dependent on imports of maize, rice and wheat. A severe drought in 1973
and 1974 resulted in poor harvests and large imports of foodgrains.
Following this, the Government introduced a number of policies to increase
food crop production. Along with favorable weather conditions, these have
had some effect in stimulating food production during the last half of the
1970s, but is still below the highest levels achieved earlier in the
decade. Some of the reasons for this disappointing level of overall
productivity in agriculture are inadequate producer price incentives,
shortage of foreign exchange to meet basic import needs of the agricultural
sector and of the supporting infrastructure in processing and transport,
shortages of basic inputs and spares, and inadequate organization and mana-
gement of agricultural extension and research services.
29.       In view of these constraints, the issues in Tanzania's agricul-
tural development are centered on formulating a program that would improve
agricultural productivity at tbh farm level, reverse the decline in the
production of both food and export crops, and improve the efficiency of
agricultural parastatals and agro-processing industries. These issues are
being partly addressed by the Export Rehabilitation Program (paragraphs
12-14) which was introduced in April 1981, and by the Government's Program
for Economic Survival launched in July 1981.
The Forestry Subsector
30.       Within agriculture, the forestry sub-sector plays an important
role in providing fuelwood, not only for domestic consumption but also for
the processing of tobacco and tea. To the extent that these forestry
resources are being rapidly depleted in tobacco and tea growing areas,
their inadequate supply is acting as a constraint on the sustenance and
expansion of existing levels of production of these crops.



- 1l -
31.       About 45% of the total area of Tanzania is classified as forest
land, nearly one third of which is protected forest reserves and the
remaining two thirds consists of natural woodlands on public land. The
latter are completely unprotected and are disappearing fast in areas where
population has increased. Apart from about 900,000 ha of closed indigenous
forests and 60,000 ha of softwood plantations, most of the forests are
dominated by slow-growing and scattered trees which yield limited quanti-
ties of commercial timber. Of the softwood plantations, 50% are in the Sao
Hill area and the rest are scattered throughout the country. The indige-
nous forests provide most of the fuelwood and timber for the population.
These are obtained free of charge for domestic use from forests on public
land or by license from forest reserves. To conserve and supplement
indigenous forest resources, the Government has been implementing a long-
term afforestation program which aims at significantly increasing softwood
plantations to meet domestic needs for timber.
32.       The Government's forestry policy aims at (i) acquiring enough
land for afforestation to achieve an appropriate ecological balance and to
meet future needs for forest products; (ii) introducing management of
forestry resources on public lands and villages and intensifying management
in gazetted forest reserves to remedy the decline of indigenous forests;
and (iii) promoting a viable forestry sub-sector through appropriate
research, extension and pricing of forest products. The proposed project
fits well into this strategy. Although the contribution of the forestry
sub-sector to Government revenue is small and exports of forestry products
are negligible, forest resources play a valuable role in providing fuel-
wood, building poles, timber and minor forest products for domestic
purposes.
Institutions
33.        The Forest Division, Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation
(TWICO), and the Southern Paper Mills Company are the three main institu-
tions directly involved in forestry and forestry products. The Forest
Division within the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT) has
overall responsibility for forest development, production and conser-
vation. Implementation of all national forest projects, including the Sao
Hill Forestry Project, is the responsibility of the Forest Division. This
Division is headed by the Director of Forests and has four sections:
Management and Development, Survey and Inventory, Manpower and Training,
and Research. The Management and Development Section is responsible for
the design and implementation of national forestry projects. The Survey
and Inventory Section handles all survey, mapping and inventory work and
the Manpower and Training Section deals with personnel administration,
education and training. Forestry research is done by the Research
Section. A Forestry Research Institute has recently been established to
specialize in forest management, timber and forest engineering, low-land
afforestation, and plantation silviculture. Tanzania Wood Industries
Corporation (TWICO) is responsible for sawmilling and wood-based industries
and owns the Tanzania Timber Marketing Company (Tantimber) which has a
monopoly on the import and export of timber. TWICO also owns a number of
sawmills and panel mills, each operated and managed as autonomous subsidia-
ries. The Southern Paper Mills Company is a subsidiary of the National



- 12 -
Development Corporation and was formed in 1978 to operate the Mufindi
pulpmill. Construction of the pulpmill has started and production is
scheduled to begin in 1984/85. The pulpmill will have an installed
capacity of 60,000 tons of pulp per annum, and is being supported by the
Bank and seven other financing agencies.
Production and Marketing
34.       Reliable data on the production and consumption of wood in
Tanzania are difficult to obtain; however, the industrial share of the
market accounts for an estimated 10% of total wood production. Ninety
percent of national output is used for fuelwood and building poles, mainly
for domestic purposes. Average log production in 1978-1980 was about
451,000 m3(r), compared with estimated average demand of 480,000 m3(r) for
the same period. The industrial forestry sub-sector has a limited range of
products such as sawn timber, plywood, fibreboard and particle board.
Sawmilling is carried out by about 100 mills, most of which are privately-
owned, small and operating with obsolete equipment. As a result, their
efficiency and recovery rates are low. The two plywood mills, one
fibrewood factory and one particle board mill in the country are also
operating well below capacity as a result of outdated equipment, shortages
of spare parts and ineffective management. These facilities are owned and
operated by TWICO.
35.       Tanzania has been a net importer of most wood panels and of sawn
softwood, although it has occasionally exported sawn hardwoods. Log
exports are banned. Wood and wood products from non-TWICO mills are sold
directly to consumers and sawn timber from TWICO mills is marketed by
Tantimber. Import duties range from 30% on sawnwood, plywood and particle-
board to 40% on fibreboard. The shortage of sawn timber in recent years
has resulted in average annual increases in real prices of 7% for high
quality hardwoods and 4.5% for utility timber. Transport costs have had a
major influence on the supply and consumption of manufactured wood products
in various parts of the country, resulting in shortages of wood panels in
remote regions.  Demand for timber is expected to increase at an annual
average rate of 4.7% between now and the year 2010, and the expected
deficit (without further plantings at Sao Hill) would rise from 29,000
m3(r) to 964,000 m3(r) in the same period. Demand for paper and paperboard
should rise from about 50,000 tons in 1980 to 130,000 tons in the year
2000. Current domestic production of such items is negligible. The exis-
ting price structure for sawlogs and pulpwood for the Sao Hill plantations
does not fully reflect the cost of production and results in substantial
profit margins for the sawmills. Under the proposed project, national
policy on stumpage rates would be re-examined and adjusted (paragraph 49).
Previous Bank Group Experience in Forestry Sector
36.       A Bank loan of US$7.0 million (Loan No. 1307-TA) was approved in
July 1976 for the Sao Hill Forestry Project. This first phase project was
completed in December 1981 and was intended to finance the planting and
maintenance of about 16,000 ha of forests; the maintenance of about 11,000
ha of existing plantations; the construction and maintenance of forest
roads and tracks; construction of staff houses and other buildings; and
research, training and studies. Provision was also made for the employment



- 13 -
of two internationally recruited specialists, and the employment of local
technical, clerical and supporting staff. Implementation of the project's
afforestation program has been so successful that targets for nursery
production, land preparation, planting, replanting and pruning have been
significantly exceeded. About 18,000 ha of plantations have been esta-
blished. However, targets for weeding and the construction of firebreaks,
roads and staff housing have not been fully met due to delays in procure-
ment of machinery and equipment, lack of spares and cement and inadequate
maintenance of vehicles and equipment. The post of mechanical engineer was
not filled and the financial controller lacked the necessary experience;
as a consequence, the project's support services (workshop and finances)
suffered from lack of internal control and poor maintenance of project
vehicles and equipment. The research trials were carried out satisfacto-
rily and a fire protection system has been established.
37.       As a result of the first phase, a good project implementation
capacity has been established at Sao Hill and there is a need now to
consolidate and fully utilize this capacity by: (i) strengthening and
streamlining project organization for better implementation of targets;
(ii) strengthening and improving project financial management, cost
accounting and internal control procedures; (iii) improving silviculture
practices; (iv) strengthening the operation of the mechanical workshop and
its spares supply system; (v) continuing the long term research program
undertaken in phase one as well as widening its scope to cover aspects of
agro-forestry; and (vi) improving the existing fire protection system. The
second phase project has been designed with these needs in mind.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was prepared by the FAO/Bank Group
Cooperative Program on behalf of the Government of Tanzania as a second
phase to the Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan 1307-TA) and was appraised in
April/May 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Sao Hill Forestry
Project - Phase II" is being circulated to the Executive Directors
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 23 to
February 26, 1982 and the Tanzanian Delegation was led by Mr. Julius Sepeku,
Principal Secretary at the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. A
Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of this report and a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
39.       The project would provide for the further development of existing
forest plantations, over a five-year period (1982/83 - 1986/87), and the
establishment of new plantations. It would also support the development of
infrastructure and forest services within the project area. Specifically,
the project would consist of:
(a) further development of about 18,000 ha of Phase I forest
plantations;



- 14 -
(b) establishment and development of about 10,000 ha of new
forest plantations for production of sawlogs and pulpwood;
(c) construction of about 160 km of forest secondary roads and
725 km of tracks; upgrading of some 120 km of secondary
forest roads to primary standard; and the maintenance of
such roads and tracks;
(d) construction of 58 staff houses and other buildings and
structures and maintenance of such houses and buildings;
(e) strengthening of the mechanical engineering services,
financial and management information systems of the Project
Management and the provision of short study tours for
selected project staff; and
(f) twelve man months of short-term consultancies and studies to
review the project's fire protection system; the die-back
problem of pine trees in Sao Hill; stumpage rates and
pricing of forestry products in the country; and existing
and planned programs for national village afforestation.
Detailed Features
40.       Further Development of Existing Plantations.  The project would
provide for the further development of about 18,000 ha of Phase I forest
plantations in Sao Hill, consisting of 16,000 ha of pine and about 2,000 ha
of eucalyptus of different ages. In order to achieve full development of
existing forest resources, project operations would include pruning,
marking for thinning, measuring logs (scaling), replanting clearfelled
areas and fire protection. To provide a better basis for charging stumpage
rates, the volume of felled timber would be determined by timber scaling.
The amount of wood to be felled each year would depend upon the require-
ments of the Sao Hill sawmill and Mufindi pulpmill. To meet the wood
requirements of these mills, about 150 ha/year of clearfelling would be
required. Unless more land suitable for eucalyptus can be found in low
elevation areas, the clearfelled pine areas would be replanted with
eucalyptus, which could be in short supply in the late 1990s especially if
the Mufindi mill needs fuelwood as well as pulpwood (which is a suggestion
under study). For the most part, integrated harvesting of pine plantations
would be practiced throughout the project area so as to ensure more
efficient use of smallwood. The Government, in consultation with the
Association, would take all measures necessary by June 30, 1983 to
coordinate the actual harvesting and logging of forest resources in the
plantations by the major users (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
41.       Establishment and Development of New Plantations.  Under the
project, 10,000 ha of new plantations would also be developed. The project
would support selective surveys of the new areas, establishment of nurse-
ries, land preparation, planting, fertilization, weeding and research. To
meet the seedling requirements of the project, small temporary nurseries
near planting sites would be established to minimize transport require-
ments. Seeds would either be locally procured or imported through the



- 15 -
Forest Division's research section. The project's research and trial
program would also be financed.
42.        Because of the marked dry season and the concentration of inflam-
mable species in the project area, the existing fire protection system
would be improved under the proposed project. It would consist of mainte-
nance of fire breaks, towers and control centers, as well as mobile
investigation units, patrol and extension work. In addition, the project
would provide for the purchase of three four-wheel drive vehicles, an
increase in fire towers from 5 to 10, and the construction of additional
firebreaks in new areas. Fire protection equipment, which will be proposed
by a FA0/TCP-financed Fire Protection Specialist, would be procured. The
preparation of detailed proposals satisfactory to the Government and
Association would be a condition of disbursement for this equipment
(Schedule 1, Paragraph 4 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       To facilitate implementation of the afforestation programs, funds
would be provided for the purchase of vehicles and equipment for general
plantation operations, workshop and fire protection activities. Vehicles
would also be provided for staff transportation. To minimize the problem
of shortages of spares for these vehicles and equipment, the project would
provide for a reasonable supply of initial spares for new and replacement
vehicles, machinery and equipment.
44.       Road Construction and Maintenance.  About 120 km of secondary
roads would be upgraded to primary all-weather standard for all purposes
including log transport. In addition, about 160 km of secondary roads
(all-weather roads for personnel access) and 725 km of tracks would be
constructed. These and existing forests roads and tracks would be
maintained. To facilitate the implementation of the road construction and
maintenance program, funds would be provided for a small amount of heavy
equipment
45.       Technical Assistance and Incremental Local Staff.  To strengthen
the mechanical engineering services, establish a financial management and
planning system, and develop improved silvicultural practices and field
operations, the proposed project would provide for the employment of a
Workshop Manager, an Assistant Project Manager (Finance and Planning) and a
Work Study Specialist, respectively. The Work Study Specialist would be
employed no later than December 31, 1982 (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Suitably qualified local counterpart staff
for these three positions would be provided by the Government (Section 3.03
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The project would also finance
the following internationally-recruited consultants or specialists: a
Forest Fire Protection Specialist to assist project management in drawing
up an implementation plan based on the recommendations of the FAO/TCP-
financed fire protection specialist (paragraph 42); a consultant to carry
out a comprehensive study on appropriate stumpage rates and the pricing of
forestry products; a Forest Physiologist to review the implementation and
effectiveness of recommendations made by the FAO-TCP silviculturist/
physiologist team on the die-back problem in the existing Sao Hill planta-
tion; and two Village Afforestation Specialists to assist in reviewing
existing programs and studies and to formulate a National Village Affores-
tation Program. The selection, qualifications, experience and terms and



- 16 -
conditions of employment of specialists and consultants would need to be
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 (a) and (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
46.       Other Components.  Because of a shortage of buildings and staff
housing at Sao Hill, provision would be made for the construction and
maintenance of about 58 houses for senior and junior staff and a divisional
headquarters in the lower elevation area. The project would also provide
for about US$800,000 in retroactive financing for the further development
of existing plantations which would be carried out between the completion
date of the first project and the signing date of the proposed second
phase.
Project Implementation
47.       The Forest Division would have overall responsibility for project
implementation. Project activities would be carried out by the Project
Manager who would be directly responsible to the Director of Forests.
The position of Project Manager would be filled at all times with a person
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Project
Manager would be assisted by two Assistant Project Managers, one responsi-
ble for plantation operations and the other for finance and planning. The
Assistant Project Manager (Operations) (APMO) would be responsible for
forest plantation management, survey and work plans, civil works, and
research and trial activities. Three Divisional Plantation Officers would
assist him in the implementation of the afforestation and fire protection
program. In each Division, Forest Officers and Assistant Forest Officers
would be in charge of fire protection and afforestation activities; they
would be assisted by Forest Assistants (FA) who would supervise the
physical implementation of agreed target activities. However, if the
afforestation program under the project is to be effectively implemented,
additional staff will be required. The Government would hence appoint and
assign six FAs with appropriate experience to the project by December 31,
1982 (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The APMO
would be assisted by a civil engineer in implementing the civil works
program and by a Senior Forest Officer in implementing the research
activities under the project. A Forest officer responsible to the APMO
would be in charge of the Survey and Work Plan Section. This Section would
use the recent forestry inventory data to prepare a five-year Working Plan
with detailed recommendations for pruning, thinning, clearfelling,
replanting and other operations. Such a Working Plan would be prepared by
July 31, 1983. Project management would implement the Plan thereafter and
subsequent plantation inventories would be undertaken every five years
(Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       The Assistant Project Manager (Finance and Planning) (APMFP)
would assist the Project Manager in matters relating to finance, accounts,
administration, work study and costing, and the workshop. Since it has
been impossible to recruit such a person in Tanzania, the APMFP would be
recruited internationally under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. His recruitment and employment would be a condition of
effectiveness of the project (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). To set up an effective costing system for the project,



- 17 -
a Work Study and Costing Section would be established and headed by an
internationally-recruited Work Study Officer. A Forest Officer, Assistant
Forest Assistant and Cost Accountant would assist the Work Study Officer.
An internationally-recruited Workshop Manager would assist the APMFP in
setting up and supervising a mechanical workshop for servicing and
repairing project vehicles, machinery and equipment. Recruitment and
appointment of the Workshop Manager would be a condition of project
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Timber Prices
49.       Permits are required for wood cutting in forest reserves and on
other public land for commercial purposes, and fees are charged.  These
stumpage fees vary with the species of timber; however, while average fees
for softwood were recently raised from TSh 49/m3 to TSh 90/m3 (July 1981),
they plainly do not cover the costs of production. Since costs in existing
softwood plantations are not known, the Government is uncertain how much
further stumpage fees should be raised. In view of the urgency of the
matter, the Government would review production during the project as a
basis for establishing appropriate stumpage rates. Wood would be valued at
its replacement cost rather than at its historical cost of production. The
proposed study would assess the impact of higher rates on the major users
of softwood with a view to ensuring the financial viability of all levels
of the industry. The Government would carry out and furnish this study to
the Association for its review and comments not later than June 30, 1983,
in accordance with agreed terms of reference, and take promptly thereafter
all measures agreed upon with the Association in the light of the study
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In following
years, the Government and the Association would consult annually on pricing
policy in the forestry sub-sector, taking into account the effect of price
increases on major users of industrial wood.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total project costs are estimated at TSh 123.6 million (US$15.0
million equivalent); the project would be exempted from identifiable taxes
and duties. The foreign exchange component would amount to US$6.1 million
or 41% of total cost. Details of the project cost are included in the
Credit and Project Summary. Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing
at the end of 1981 and include adequate physical and price contingencies.
Full costs of technical assistance (including salary, subsistence and
international travel) are estimated at about US$5000 per man-month; 132
man-months would be required. Full costs of short-term consultants
(including salary, subsistence and international travel) are estimated at
US$6,000 per man-month; 12 man-months would be required. The proposed IDA
credit of US$12.0 million would finance about 80% of total project costs -
100% (US$6.2 million) of the foreign exchange costs and 66% (US$5.8
million) of local costs. The Government would provide the remaining US$3.0
million.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Orders for new vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment and
initial spare parts (US$1.7 million) would be bulked as far as practi-



- 18 -
cable. Orders of US$100,000 and above would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) from suppliers who maintain or agree to
introduce adequate after sales services and inventories of spare parts in
Tanzania. Orders for vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent would be procured (up to an aggre-
gate of US$300,000) in accordance with the Government's local competitive
bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Association. Civil works
consisting of the construction and maintenance of roads, housing and build-
ings (US$1.3 million) would be too small (less than US$100,000) and too
dispersed to attract either international or local competitive bidding. As
the project has the capacity to implement such a program with reasonable
efficiency, these civil works would be constructed under force account by
the project's Civil Works Section. Draft tender documents for all
contracts expected to cost in excess of US$150,000 would be submitted to
the Association for approval before bid invitations are issued. Bid
evaluations and recommendations for award would be submitted to the
Association for comments before contracts are awarded. In the evaluation
of ICB bids for purchase of vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing
rate of duty, whichever is lower.
52.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of (a) 100%
of foreign and 75% of local costs of vehicles, equipment and spare parts;
(b) 75% of total cost of civil works; (c) 100% of the cost of consultants'
services and study tours; (d) 100% of foreign and 75% of local costs of
afforestation; (e) 75% of incremental staff salaries and wages up to a
total of US$0.4 million equivalent, 60% up to a total of US$0.6 million;
and thereafter 40% up to a total of US$0.8 million; (f) 100% of foreign
costs and 75% of local costs of administrative expenses and vehicle
operating costs; and (g) an unallocated amount of US$0.5 million
representing contingencies on items (a) to (d) and (f), and transferable to
them as required. All disbursements would be fully documented except for
local expenditures under (d), (e) and (f) which would be made against
statements of expenditure signed by the Project Manager and the Ministry of
Finance, with the supporting documentation retained by the project team for
inspection by IDA supervision missions. Expenditures incurred after
December 31, 1981 for the further development of existing plantations would
be financed retroactively under the credit up to an amount of US$0.80
million equivalent (Schedule 1, Paragraph 4(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Such expenditures are necessary to prevent an
interruption of plantation activities between the first and second phases
of the Sao Hill program.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
53.       The project would assist in strengthening financial management
and planning, internal controls and cost accounting within the Forest
Division. Separate accounts would be maintained on all project-related
expenditures and would be audited by the Government's Auditor General. The
audited accounts and the auditor's report would be submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of each financial year (Section
4.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Detailed reports on
physical implementation of the project and proposed expenditures for the
following quarter would be prepared every three months and submitted to the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and to the Association, together



- 19 -
with annual reports summarizing project activities.  The project management
would also maintain appropriate records on total and unit costs of affores-
tation activities, historical data on the operating costs of vehicles and
equipment and unit costs of construction for staff houses and other struc-
tures.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The principal benefit from the project would be the production of
wood to meet the increasing domestic demand for sawn timber, panels, and
paper and paper products. Considerable domestic supply deficits are
projected in the near future and would worsen thereafter without the
project. The project would provide permanent direct employment for over
200 skilled persons, and would also have an indirect but important impact
on employment in related activities such as logging, transportation and
wood processing. A total of about 450,000 man-days of unskilled labor
would be required for the various operations and all of this would come
from villages and townships near the project area. The project would not
only serve to even out Government cash flows, but would also generate
substantial cash surplus from net operating revenues of the Sao Hill
plantations. Most of this cash would flow into the national Treasury.
These benefits do not include the benefits of reducing depletion of indige-
nous forests and other non-qualifiable environmental benefits which the
project would have. The forest plantations would continue to provide
protection of minor catchment areas and the maintenance of soil cover on
vulnerable sites. By providing softwood to meet the national demand, the
project would reduce pressure on the environmentally important indigenous
forests.
55.       The major project risk relates to the establishment of the
pulpmill at Mufindi since it would be the major consumer of the project's
output. Its failure to start operations on schedule or at full capacity
would result in considerable waste of forestry resources from early thin-
nings. However, while the economic rate of return of the project would be
reduced from 30% to 25% without the fuel pulpmill demand, this would still
be acceptable. In addition, the Government and the cofinanciers of the
pulpmill have made a commitment to implement the project as far as possible
on schedule. Another major risk is the scarcity of diesel fuel supplies.
Further reduction of fuel stocks could hamper the project's afforestation
and roads program. However, the project has been designed to minimize this
risk by establishing nurseries near planting sites, limiting the
requirement for new vehicles and equipment to replace existing stocks, and
reducing vehicle use by almost 20% per annum. In addition, the project
derives its diesel fuel supply directly from an oil company and has
adequate storage capacity to cope with fluctuating supply of diesel fuel.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMlENT AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of



- 20 -
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
M4arch 24, 1982
Washington D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV'RACES
LAND MAA  (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE.
TOTAL             945.1                                      MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRILULTURAL      498.2                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PEh CAPITA (US$)                       70.0        120.0     260.0                  238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRCA.S OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          43.3         66.5      52.8                   70.5                   707.5
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    10200.7        13300.0   18030.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       4.8          6.9       11.2                  17.5                    27.7
POPULAIION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YLAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            34.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              97.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            10.9         14.1      19.1                   27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          21.0        26.0       35.0                   73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              42.7         44.4      45.9                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YKS.                              54.3        52.5       51.0                  52.4                     51.2
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.0          3.1       3.1                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                   2.2          2.7       3.4                    2.6                     2.8
URbAN                                   5.0         6.3        8.7                   6.5                      5.1
CRUDE bl6'TH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.6         46.8      46.3                   46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          22.2         18.4      15.2                   19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.0          3.2       3.2                    3.1                     3.2
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..           ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMIEN)        ..           ..        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-1DO)               95.0       104.0       91.0                  89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        85.0        91.0       89.0                  90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               44.0         49.0      47.0                  52.7                     52.8
OF WIIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0         21.0      20.0                  17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          32.2         24.8      18.4                   27.3                    20.2
HIEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         42.0        47.0       51.5                  45.8                     50.8
INFaNT dIORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  *         160.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIONb)
TOTAL                                    ..         13.0      39.0                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                    ..        61.0       88.0                  55.0             .       74.3
RURAL                                    ..         9.0       36.0                  18.5                     12.6
aLCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..      17.0                  26.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..      88.0                  63.5
KURAL                                    ..          ..       14.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              18215.5/d   22240.8   17553.1                31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         10440.c7Or,.  7162.1    3080.0                3674.9                   2R98.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 570.0/d     717.8      499.8                1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                                    ..        58.7       81.3                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                    ..          ..    1191.0                 1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL bED                ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TUTAL                                               4.          .. ./c
URBAN                                   3.1          3.2/c
RURAL                                    ..         4.5Th      5.3
AVEhAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   1.8          ..
URBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..



- 22-                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  2  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5ZAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  25.0         38.0      70.0                   56.4                      73.7
HALE                  33.0         46.0       80.0                  70.7                      96.8
FEMALE                18.0         30.0       61.0                  50.1                      79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          3.0       4.0                   10.0                      16.2
MALE                   2.0          4.0        5.0                  13.6                      25.3
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0        2.0                   6.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  23.0             ..        3.0                   8.0                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         46.0      51.0                   46.5                      36.2
SECONDARY                   .       20.0         18.0       18.0                  25.5                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5/d       28.1/c    66.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          2.5       2.6                    2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         11.3      18.4                   32.8                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            *-          0.3       0.3                    1.9                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") ClICULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    3.0          5.0        7.9                   2.8                      20.2
CINEiiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            .,        0.2                   1.2                       0.7
LAbOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4734.5       5841.7    7454.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37.2         36.7      36.0                   34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.3         86.0      83.3                   80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.8          5.0       5.9                    8.6                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.4         43.9       41.3                  41.7                      37.2
MALg                                  59.1         56.3       53.4                  54.3                      47.1
FEMALE                                34.0         31.8      29.5                   29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         24.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    .,           50.4
LOWEST 2U PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     147.0                  136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     109.0                   84.5                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     125.0                   99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      74.0                   61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      10.0                   39.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      60.0                   68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1967;  /d 1962; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country.
May, 1981



- 23 -
ANNE I
Page 3 of 6
DEINiITIONI OF SOCIAL INSICATORS
so.e.   Alhuhtedt   r   rw    rceotegnrlyjde   h    atatota  r   n    eihn   ntoId alt  be noted that they na    th  inte-
natioallytumptebleheca.e o  the lath  0P etaadne           aicioeedcncp.ua  by difeett etsIn colcigthe data.  The date are, tone-
thlea,uttu   t  datoribh  ordeo of eageitudn, iodictttnr-da.  end th6-....crai    ltdffrne   hrecconre
of  bh  sujai   cuty(mcp  for 'Capital  urueoil teporcees' gronp where "Middle ino-   North Africa and Mdd..fn'.a.nen                                       .ott  iferee
eocio-tltnrelaffinitas). t  the.eeeo   glrnp data the.tae   tr                ouainnig~httd ai             aiic atnefor etch i.dicto   nr. .d shoneonlyiohe
eeoic    f  A  cutiein Iropba  et  o  tafidcto. Sic  ttcneae  fconrision   heId otrsdpfd  c   Anartihttyofdt
Total - Tote1 eurac  mte' cope .ieic  tend area and Icland eans.uhe   and. rurl-                                               iladh   hn                                          I.pctrcee ihepilhd
ARtri-uIura   - ettiate  ofegiuur i ae  ud teporarily or rerean tnly                                    arelah,   to .public an.     rnc.     gnrlad  deec ti.leed boapital end re-
forcos  potue.   aket tod kitchengadnso Ito  ri felice; 1978 daaZalhntccntn      npia    onetbihenepreon                                                                         tffsd
by i    lnt onepoyIia.  tEtabl~iahoeh         s l:p-hocditg lprinipall ly cs
cularad by ea.  o....r too. aechd an WcrIld              ta   17-9bss    19610,                         andedto  cotee   oryanaetly atffed by e physIcia  (hoc h
191.ad 199  ac.                                                                                       tltla     _ttat   cus,I        dJle    r.   hchcirI-atln    cr
Iptilt CONifglTTIot PiR CAPI~TA -   -nul  csup lot ci  c I'elal enry(not al purpte  uh   hospitals  ittluda iHis  prlic ipil/S genera  hos.picIe
tity) ihilogaao   ol  qtaetpercpt;lh.17,sd 197                                                      centers   1pecialtoed h.sp itlT  arelincluded oi lyudertotl
Prow hospitels dividad by the tuaher ci hode
piytiIATiON ANtD VITLt STATISTICS
forat  oiai..SdIa   nosns                      As ci July  0; c9Al, 1970. and 1979                .HitNGOl
diffrentdafottina  o  ubhcrte.  may affect  -mparahiloy. of dat                               andrarsetnea   A                 rdrorldger nayor-   toh   rcluded il
amocgccuonctes  tIN, 1971, and 197  data,                                                      th   :cusod Oc e.......cal.rrrne
Poua tPrujecti.te                                                                              Ocraeuhn   i  esnsrr.cw     otl   rhn  adruab    Al ..eg. tI--
Popotaton In yar lOll - Cretpplo  prjctos  c  bal on d.  19f1                                haofeeoe   n  root tr, al.     l uboc i   uo  oculdccwi tna
total  opulatco by  go to  san and their  -cilityadfl         i  ry"rte.dul_ra,rspt Itl.  Inelt tonetoclda .o-....                                        ec..ucur.          n
ilg lif a  apcnyit htrth ItornsIng etch country's. perc. Ita                  ....e             Allte t. tt lnccoo(retofdloa-ttl.ub.ed rural I
isnl.1  andita      OIn  teIlny n-bhllting. or c7c5 yros.  Th. pero-                               Conen or...  deellio Id,%,  nh nttity ic licict quattr e...Pn             -     g
m-tersfcr fnrcioirttaehi                 hra   etlaafnogeloe                                           itoa    irban, enradatllocprnp.co..               y
fertility  scccdtcg cc Ot-e  Intel ad pes!Oniy  lUCAipefonoce
tEc hconr  ii charts. igned tin tf th... nine o-bita. oc   oftutalticEyCT
an:d.fniiltty  iraids for proetonAros                                                             d)uoted Eorl11ec.t Ratina
tceilcutrtrupulatcrn-rcaetetioten   - l   llatinh.r.oetcIrcoc-haince                    rraatehcl-calnutadtnle.oonriletonya.o
eta teti. Itah!  In etionn   onlyefr fertlity cat.dcln   to                               prmay,echo-aapulaitoi;  comai                          ` Icoe  childrec aged h-Il
th Pilanet   ao o.     f c     e   rpoutd      o   se  ohe  each geert lo                           ar  buten.f fo  dtffer..tt 1ngctn of yoImayeuain    o
e-i-ada cc  ha hbaao  t1he projncidt caeceircec   ht pp.. atico                                                                                                        A tc   u ppl   milw  cao    fiileho   age
it the year 1100. end th  ito  of daclocs of feot ltoiy tt  torpnce-                              Inodr  shool - toce1. ma1o ad  female- Cue otd A                      Iaoc; socondary
moot I_o.edcto   ra.quires at least four yearn.of ocorcod ptoytntu to
Yea  -ttictart pcootaLooc_on reahed - The pea  chor erac-t-o  population                                prov Ides gn   -tl.ccioirl , o    a            orcoc oarur os   c   Puill
star hue bent ceahtd                                                                                 usualy t  11  o 1          lyAr  ci a1 ge;    1 cotsytocccI'r fcrltl
Petan. k..-  Mid-y-uccpoa        pot   ecquace kilc..ncar  l100 h-ti...a (of                          Oopc__attc.tni.ore.........o-loaccalI.....utloc
total Ir      960lhi  1970 nod 1979 dii                                                              tcldtcncl,Adero,o  nhrcorr   hichoerr   indepI-d-
only; 1997. 1970 rod 1970 dote.                                                                     op-cahcrto-tino.id  ecutdarc -Ccc-1 etodnica  --eo1ld ir
Popu1ation A'n . .tuep (...       si  - Chiodono  (0-10 foere) .rohia- ls  0-                             prmr   i   scoayOo.                d-oidd hp -d           ct-rcOcohaceini tn
h4 ynore) , ecd retird(h  ynrnnd tint) asP-.. -ecwtgn    fsd-year pop.-                                 corespondon   leta
lcc;1960, 1970. end 1979 deco.                                                                  Adult litercy cute .      r       c)-Literate  adulte  ahlr tor     -dad ucict)
Popoatto  Conch  ate  ooroni    ttal- -Incu   -  hrt   .train    of total aid-                ne..oreeo   oe   fOtpclto    oc0   ar  todcot
yearropletonafc               1960t  0 h-70l.,and 1970- 79.
Prlntiot rnch   tlai  foRroot)  - ubsn  - Anul g.. rp tih reros of urban  .pp-                  CONSUMPTION
lati.ce  iol 1910-600  1960-10, and 197c-79.                                                       P.awa   ae(o   huadoolaic       nane   enoea   nTo..
Crdetrt -ac   re   housan~d) - Aut-I Ion borthi Per thousad of mid-year                        car  neatti  lestthen tIght onen-.a..             da.tuucn,loen   o
ppltn;1900, 1970, aid 1979 data,                                                              nil itay neilen
Crude D-tih lai  (,ec ch ....d) - Annual loatlhe per th-u..nda of  id-,..,Rer                        tadot tc ...ne   fctrIh-catcd rrlt i-All1 tyyeol   .... ro-ec  ic  radio
popuIetict; 1910, 1970, acd 1979 data.                                                               bhtidcoaaietcgsn-re   publ  per thoood          Icioc    Io tot; etc looau-
lretoouiu t.st-A-ergaou_hbrlfauhtr                             11cwnwl -nnit                 ieed   eeor   tncotrl                    l_-2,-ieac.O    raroaoeisrrcccrdi
heonceolrcrodotcI ynccod Of ebtop           I Iene   onecanSpncifconr-                          ncew        te leo;Idncfrtcctyas   0ccaon                          alent.iceI
illicy race; ....ally fine-Y.eacaneres  ending  it 1960, 1970, and 1979.'                            acrc       -irte   ao1ished 1 iceceton
holly PlactnA -  Acceotorn, ouAl..  (thl.ue..do) - Annual wahe  ofl e..ept..T  Ocler                                 m   ch-uo r.u..         c)-Ccrocr   o Icol..cuot to
of cbrth--ccc-c1 deci-e  coder.. ecPicwt or tait..ce   tautly  ....cI. ....                         gteluctprrhaad po0uOaiot.                       nOdocOoaady   aot
enrochild-beai  ago  (15-Au y-er) oh.  -e  birth--ct-cI d-oiceac tfOnesna   lcln  c    m   hoeo                                           oa too)   h-chr  the acr ir c-
nIarrirdocertseaeg    goP.                                                                          clro l"doipgeeottrstctotr'lcdauyodcu
pt.hlicectot dlococd priarilY y toco-dic.          ettltn,   to.1-- 1  In cot-id-cd
PIOI alo tToITIlO                                                                                         to be 'daily" If it appo..rs to lcoac floclnenonoa .k.
Icd-n fi Fcd Pccduocioc peo _l.2ts_1909-71-1O0) -Idec of yet -pit-eocua                              Cicet  Aotual u .incl -c rer Cc-its ta   Yac-hoard  on. d        the toner of
prodoc...c of ni.    od..      citn.rcutot                llaedad feed end                           ticheta a lddutgthe yan... i-ul.d ig  dleteetin    dto lon-ti. clon_
-ncccaeoacynchet.  Co_dIifrtcec  ptnarygod  (eg.  AuglIer                                   and mobil  cots..
loeeadf   utaloto   Iredclel    .   -nf   -oet   cureca I.g.oiffeeotd
teur    eit.i).hi -t d-ao c looicc of oath  -ocooy Is bet ... dAlOR yctRc
ctttlaraoproducr   roaeolo;1961-hI, 1970. ad 1979 data                                   TctI labor Focc  (thootaidel    E - ...o.oioly i- tlr  otca,-old
yo-  fay.  Aalheetltatero P lunat.ic  -td-i-iuo   inct                          encoparuhir; 1900. 0970od 1909 data.
acci,cd coro .cc stoc.i.nt enpd  toe.. net lde . uimalIreed  tod.rseocetf-Pml   cc                                                on   cocdrofot0lkctco
ecenr ai-ato  hr b, FO hued  on phyelctooiuai "-toe too ycmloci                              ibiga  precoo ol                   lbo.fcf;9(,          -97  al1970 dec
city aid health tcidr..t...coateprooe   bcdy onithta, ag.Id-ero(eey                                              n    Labor follr to  -icg, trncutiiT                     -ot-tiort
uod eon dIntcohooo- ci P.opoll_t, etd all-nt, 10 pnro,-   P- ornar  at                               d electricity, aeocad tan us roctotgo  of tota  luhbt (cr00; 19il,
loosehold  irool, 1961-65, 1970, cod 0977 data.                                                    1970 and 1979 Iota.
rer 00000 scryloci tociei (grateron lao) -Poot  ocet  f  e  topita                   Potoloit ae  tretl-  oa.  aoAoo  fa-lo-atopootc
Ott  ....i  o f food ocr let   Not tiIohd by lcA in-lion l neaoo.i   te-..1- aciiyaeae                                    p Iod o  total. unPn  ai. fIuO I oo   foro                 IY,
60onot   f  oganc   total     " Irotndi     y tardfan20 lranef-i-ito     -                 1960, 1970. - a 1979ldaie.  Th...an   hanb            oI.      crocptodu
Acrid Pood Sutory; 1961-t5, 1970nr 0. 977 data.                                                    oc  the cocc  Isbo- fo-o-
aooncourl -o   ota.ohild-tcoo.  Mouanc-                ocfotor     dnoncciocu                       I yoct o__             Icoco   yoooI  Orrro  -uccy                -reaOP.rni
'trt_ foc_dectffcnlft coll; 0960, 0910 al1979 dlac.                                                    foh... hoollde.
or 1t960Ih, 1970 cod 197  data.                                   I       i                    aId nh11id It torerrn         cool o"It'rn -%      l-                  ,1 -
of. tgn per  thsid  lce hiriho.1                                                                       _holoco  poro    cotiO    tta   tte    rn olccO                            it
Atne-c  lteOarr-    eroo   i coiaIcl-toal...o   ofrual-  ueIltlticelI.....dit  b                                                             otrocl  cotoo
hsrci  00c    (ttal  urot.andecrl)  iitonnne l....estsa. ...rato
oaneclltlf"PrtdofcnaoacutntdhtnctenodYtbuaolotrcoo   rcoLoo .Stouir)-ru                                                                                                     oru
wao   so   a  ht  rnprmtd   hohia   pog,adentrole    eOtlcioo    ooo    rooio    ocrt  o                                                            rcrt    o
-hhntge    f  lrcenott ...culaciocei. IcaourtR-nonooaapuhioc1-1 I
Pp.blil                                        ~~~     ~~~~~p-re_aiioc_ecthba --cctto 1.            i Jr-olo -lc    orcrlrcnohrrr
Ocortoorecidoa   lcreo...                rnladO   nccofrnacuanyh                                     ltlochyjntbrfohioitnoofhtcotoora
occa ideo   a  ei  oti   oooaleaoneo   lurIu..I.urlawa                                              eiatlOooliccmc   hnicdOono  cooLoo                               becc)     r
rnaecehl 0usonn  coo 0 uepy tha  ol   oeni      -cebr  of cht hoasebhld                        rprl-PretoCyplo                       (orb- cod corni)u nr   'iouo
loooctaurcoetaodud;accoyortootctoo  cArccithelnolcfnochtctt~~heM
ice ocileo lo  addopne,no    c  iloctruoPt fhua   pncctta                                                                                 -tc-c-    uc l(alci Iat  OcoInooc
Pcculaci-c P-c NuttlingPno..         rylc l ioll b         t -b-hw fpclilieao   hyctog9
qalee   ifimordun-oecurena  ,h.I ,            __otclure,Yi   esit_ tores



- 24 -
Population          17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                                 ANNX   I
GNP Pser Capita:  US$270 (1979)                                                                                                             Pag e  4  'of  6
TANZAINIA - ECONOMIC INDICATOR. S-'
Amount
(million US$ at                                             Annual Growth Rates_ (74
Indicator                  current prices)                            Actual                                                Projected
1979           1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983      .1984       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross dmsiprdctd/ e/                      456.               6.7        4.7        5.4        3.9       41.5        3.7        3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6
Agriculture!                            2,210.2            9.8        7.5        7.4        8.0       -6.1        4.2        3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6
Industry                                  549.0            0.9        3.1       -2.2        3.1          -        3.0        4.0        4.0        4.0       4.0
Services                                1,374.8            3.4        5.5        6.5        3.4        4.0        3.4        3.4        3.4        3.4        3..
Consumption                               4,115.8             1.6      12.3       14.6       -3.4        1.7        4.6        1.9        3.2        3.1        3.2
Gross invsstment                             958.6          11.5         2.1        3.8      10.9       -6.2         3.6       3.6        3.6        3.6        3.,
Exports of GNFS                             647.9           16.8      -22.8       -2.4       -2.8       -9.6        1.7        7.9        5.2        5.?        5.3
Imports of GNFS                           1,158.0            0.5        4.4       34.9      -19.2        1.5       -2.9       -1.)        2.9        2.6        3.1
Gross national savinigs                     468.0           64.5       -6.8      -58.0       99.4      -16.9      -23.9       19.0        8.8        9.7        3..
PRICES
GOP deflator (1978 - 100)                                   77.2       92.4      100.0      108.5      124.8       404       154.4      168.3      131.9      194.5
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per USS)                                8.4         8.3       7.7        8.3        8.2        8.2        8.2        8.2        8.2        8.2
Share of GOP at Market Prires (7.                        Average Annual Increase (.
Lit current pri;es)S                              a    ostn    98,ie
1970       1975       1980       1985      1990       1970-75       1975-80      1980-85      19d5 '9,
Gross domestic prdct/                                      100.0      103.0      100.3      100.0      i00.0         4,4           4.1          3.6           3.6
Agriculturs_e/                            ~~~~~~36.9  36.9       47.5      147,8       47.9         2.1           5.8          3.7          3.4
Industry                                                  15.5       14.5       11.9       12.)       12.3         3.7          0.7           3.9          4.3
Servicesi                                                 37.2       37.8       31.1       30.8       30.6         6.6          4 6           3.4          3.4
ConsumpCi,,n                                                81.9       91.7       90.3       88.2       86.4         5.9           6 0          3.1          3.1
Gross investment                                            22.5       21.1       20.0       18.0       18.0         0.2           4.6          2.1          3.6
Export. 4141S                                              -24.0      -18.2      -12.1,    -13.e       -15.2        -5.3          -6.2          5.3          5.,,
Imports GNFS                                                28.4       31.0       22.5       20.2       19.7        -3.8          4.2           1.1          3.0
Gross national savings                                      18.3        7.8        9.9       11.6       13.5        -2.4         -3.6           5.7          7.0-
As 7. of GDP
?'IJBtIC  EIA4           ~1970                                                    1975      1979
Curreac .~,j                                                          17.5      2 0.?2    13.5
Current en'pendi~jras                                                 16.2      20.?     23.9
Surplus (+) or deficit(-                                               1.3         -     -5.4
Capital expenditure                                                    8.3      11.6     12.7
Forei,n tinancLig                                                      2.0       5.4       6.7
1970-75      1975-80      1980-85       1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (7                                          4.7          4.2           3.6           3.6
GNP per capita growth rate (7)13                                          080.2                     0.2
:COR                                                        5.0          5.5           5.1          5.1
Marginal savings rate                                      -0.1         -0.1           0.1          0.2
import elasticity                                          -0.8          1.0           0.3          0.8
a!  Estimate
4/Apart from trad,  projectiorm s  which include small but offsetl ing amounts of Zanzibar trade, all data in ti is table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
c/  Projected years at constant prices.
d'At market price  components are expressed at factor cost an will not add due to exclusion of net indire t taxes and subsidiea.
e/ Historical tren. from 1973 to 1979 is based on official esti..ates, which include subsistence production g owth rate of 8.6% per
annum. We esti ate that a more realistic growth rate for su. sistence production over this period would b! nearer 47. per annum,
reducing agricu tural growth to 3.4% per annum and GDP growt , to 3.67. per annum.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Population        17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                            Page  5  of  6
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANZANIA - EXTERNAL TRADE '
Amount                                           Anuial Growth Rates (%)
Indicator           (million US$ at                                     (at constant 1978 prices)
current prices)                       Actual                   a                    Projected
1979          1976      1977      1978     1979      1980-    1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            543.6            7.8    -19.4      -6.5       6.1    -7.8       2.1       8.5      5.3       5,3      5.3
Major primary products      339.5            9.5    -20.1       -9.7     -0.1    -4.8        3.0       8.8      4.1      4.1       4.1
Others                      204.1             3.3    -18.1       2.7     21.5   -14.0          -      8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0
Merchandise imports         1,099.6           -16.4      7.7      36.8    -18.8      1.0      -3.4      -1.5      2.8       2.3      2.9
Foodgrains                   19.3          -65.2      23.3    -14.7    -42.4   334.0        -3.0    -47.5         -         -        -
Petroleum                   171.7           11.0    -11.5       12.8     -8.9      2.1      -7.9      5.0       3.1      3.3       3.4
Machinery and equipment    515.0           -15.2      25.1      55.1    -10.0    -7.6       -5.4      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9
Others                      393.6          -13.9       0.7      33.9    -28.9    -7.6        0.7      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0
PRICES
Export price indx                              77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price ind.x                            81.1      89.5    100.0    118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    234.4    220.9
Terms of trade index                          95.4    119.4    100.0       90.4    88.3       74.9     71.4      72.2     73.1      74.0
Composition cf Merchandise Trade (%)                 Average Annual Increase(%)
(at current prices)                         (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975      1980     1985      1990      1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          -4.5        -5.2        5.6         5,5
Major primary  roducts                      59.2      66.3      69.2     67.6      63.5        0.2       -6.9         5.0         4.1
Others                                      40.8      33.7      30.8     32.4      36.5      -12.9       -1.0         6.8         8.0
Imports                                      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           1.8        2.6         0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                   2.5      15.3       9.2      4.5       3.9      44.8        -5.8       -14.1           -
Petroleum                                    8.5      11.9      12.7     13.1      13.7       4.8           -         2.0         3.9
Machinery and  quipment                     35.2      30.8      41.2     38.8      36.9        0.7       11.1         1.7         2.9
Others                                      53.8      42.0      36.9     43.6      45.5       -1.7       -3.3         2.7         3.1
Share of Trade with         Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (7      Developing Countries (%)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970    1975    1978         1970    1975    1978                 970    1975    1978
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     54.0    48.2    6t.0          40.0    43.3    23.2                 0.6     0.4     0.7
Imports                                     57.9    59.7    71.2          27.3    25.1    17.9                1.2      3.2     0.8
a/ Estimate
F/ Data are for a] Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar)



- 26 -
Populationp :  17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                                                     ANNEX   I
GNP P'r Capita:  USS 270 million (1979)                                                                                                                    rage   6  of   6
TAN2ANIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Actual                         - /                                  Projected
Indicator                      1970        1976        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981        1982       1983        1984_ 1985            1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of goods and services                   .350.4     647,2       669.6      631.2       705.6       740.6      741.8       851.1      979.2    1,123.7    1,286.1    2,289.9
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.               259.3       492.4       547,7      479.2       543.5      572.7       558.2      643.2       744.8      860.4       991.8   1,796.3
Imports of goods and services                  377.9      729.6       853.4    1,271.1   1,224.3    1,452.7    1,596.5   1,756.3    1,964.2   2,182.8   2,423.7   3,900.7
of which:  %echandise c.i.f.                 318.4      630.5       750.3   1,146.5   1,099.6    1,299.1    1,412.9   1,549.1   1,732.6   1,932.3   2,149.2   3,488.1
Net transfen4-                                   5.6       -16.4       11.9        19.2       28.1        20.0       21.6        23.3       25.2        27.2       29,4        43.2
Current account balance                        -21.9       -98.8    -171.9    -620.7    -490.6    -692.1    -833.1    -881.9    -959.7  -1,031.9  -1,10B.2  -1,567.6
Official grant receipts                          6.2       119.0      135.0       214.1      321.4       380.9      410.4       443.2      478,7       517.0      558.2       820.4
M & LT loanj (net)                              38.1        97.1      162.3       151.1      255.8      329.3       392.7       408,7      451.0       484.9      569.8       772.2
Officialc                                     41.2      107.1       168.0      158.1       162.4      196.1       341.9      377.5       439.8      476.6       577.9       775.9
Private                                       -3.1      -10.0        -5.7       -7.0        93.4      133.1        50.9       31.2        11,3         8.3       -8.1        -3.6
Other capital                                  -29.8      -67.7        10.5       -14.6       -4.7         2.9       50.0        52.0       50.0            -      -36.0
Change in reserves (--increase)                  7.4      -49.6    -135.9         270.1      -81.9       -20.0      -20.0       -20.0      -23.0       -20.0      -20.0       -25.0
International reserves                         107.5      164.4       300.3       30.2       112.1      132.1       152.1       172.1      192.1       212,1      232.1       357,'
Reserves as months imports                       3.4         2:7        4.2         0.3        1.1         1.1        1.1         1.2        1.2         1.2         1.2        1.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbarsements                             60.5      238.2       326.3      382.5       596.9       763.8
Official grants                                6.2      119.0       135.0      214.1       321.4      380.0
Conceslional loans                           40.4        93t6       149.5      112.6       103.8      179.7
DAC-'                                      20.1        5800       73.7        64.1       33.2        33.1
O0EC                                           -        1.0        6.5         1.2         1.2       35.5
IDA                                         9.4        29.0       39.3        24.4       39.0        49.4
Other                                      10.9         5.6b      30.0        22.9       30.4        61.6
Non-concessional loans                        13.9       25.6        41.8        63.4      171.7      204.1
Official export credits                        -        7.3           -       21.7       32.1         6.8
IBRD                                        4.8        17.1       30.4        31.3       36.6        31.8
other multilateral                             -          -        3.1         7.6        5.3        14.4
Private                                     9.1         1.2        8.3         2.8       97.7       151.0
ixternal Debc
Debt oucstanding and disbursed              322.7    1,026.3    1,218.6    1,260.1    1,422.0    1,751.3
Official                                  193.4       965.7    1,158.5    1,201.4    1,266.6   1,462.7
Private                                   129.3        60.6       60.1        58.7      155.4       288.5
Undisbursed debt                            408.4       536.6       560.4      617.5       699.6      679.7
Debt service
Total service payments                       -26.3      -41.7       -51.2      -49.6       -49.7      -98.2
Interest                                  -10.1      -19.5       -22.3       -24.7      -30.0      -43.7
Payments as % exports                          7.5        6.4         7.6        7.9         7.1       13.3
Average intere.t rate on new loans'%)            1.6         2.6        3.1         2.6        5.5         4.5
Official                                       1.5        2.3         3.1        2.6         4.0
Private                                        7.0        8.3         9.3         .,         8.5
Average toatcrity of new loans (years)          38.8       38.0        34.7        35.4       21.1       27.3
Official                                      39.7       39.9        34.7       35.4        27.0
Private                                        7.2        5.0        14.8         .,         9.7
As 2. of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                28.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               62.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                3.0
a! Estinmate
b! EOcludes official grant receipts.
c/  Includes financing of projected gap on IDA terms.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF JANUARY 31, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower           Purpose                   Bankl   TW      IDA'  Undisbursed
Six loans, one Third Window loan, and eighteen
credits fully disbursed.                                  86.20  29.99  144.74
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                           17.50    3.60
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                        21.00                     0.67
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                              10.20    1.53
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development (Kigoma)                       10.00    0.20
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                            10.00    5.17
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                          15.00                     0.75
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank        15.00                     0.57
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                              6.00    1.34
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                           18.00    6.97
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                  11.00    5.02
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                          7.00                     1.02
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                         9.00    6.03
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                8.00    0.94
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply               15.00                     4.07
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex              11.50             1.40
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex   11.50                        0.97
703-TA    1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                        7.20    4.60
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                        12.00    7.71
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.00    9.52
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank        15.00                     1.77
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                 27.50    7.49
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                 14.00   10.73
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                    12.00    6.82
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                 25.00                    24.50
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                 20.00   13.71
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                           14.00   12.33
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                  12.00   11.78
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                           30.00    9.46
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper           30.00                   29.40
876-TA    1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                    20.50   18.68
1754-TA    1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.           11.00                     4.71
1750-TA    1979  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank        25.00                    16.84
S-24-TA    1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                    2.50    1.37
987-TA    1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                         10.00    9.97
1007-TA    1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                        10.00    9.33
1015-TA    1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                          43.00   42.91
1037-TA    1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                  14.00   13.68
S-27-TA    1980  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum                            30.00    1.12
1056-TA    1981  Tanzania  Seventh Education                                25.00   24.77
1060-TA2   1981  Tanzania  Technical Assistance II                          11.00   10.70
1070-TA2   1981  Tanzania  Coconut Pilot                                     6.80    6.50
1133-TA2   1981  Tanzania  Export Rehabilitation Program                    50.00   42.60
1173-TA2,3 1982  Tanzania  Telecommunications 1                             27.00   27.00
1199-TA2   1982  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum II                         20.00   20.00
1206-TA2,3 1982  Tanzahia  Technical Assistance III                         12.00   12.00
Total                                                      276.70  41.49  689.94
of which has been repaid                                 19.70    -       9.50
Total now outstanding                                   257.00  41.49  680.44
Amount sold                               .09
of which has been repaid                .09
Total now held by Bank and IDAl                           257.00  41.49  680.44
Total undisbursed                                          85.27   1.40  365.58   452.25
1 Net of exchange adjustments.
2 Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.
3 Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF JANUARY 31, 1982
(US$ million)
Loan                                              Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower        Purpose                 Bank'   Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                              135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC         Harbours                  35.00        0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC         Harbours                  26.50        0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications        32.50        0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB         Development Finance       15.00        3.11
Total                                       244.80        4.26
of which has been repaid                   70.87
Total now outstanding                       173.93
Amount sold                   24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36             0.00
Total now held by Bank                      173.93
Total undisbursed                             4.26         4.26
lNet of exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION'
(As of January 31, 1982)
There are currently 46 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project management has maintained good implementation progress
despite the problems caused by shortages of fuel and spare parts which have
handicapped the mechanization unit and road equipment operation. Shortage
of building materials is also delaying completion of housing and storage
facilities. Construction of roads, bridges and culverts are proceeding
well while grading and graveling have slowed down due to the fuel problem.
Cotton production has increased over the previous season despite the late
rain which seriously reduced the maize crop. In spite of these encouraging
production results, future cotton production could be seriously affected by
marketing problems. The severe shortages of spare parts and fuel has
brought transport, ginning and oil crushing operation to a virtual stand-
still. TCA has requested the Government for TSh 110.5 million to rehabili-
tate the ginneries, the oil mills and their transportation fleet.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of all five factories and ancillary facilities has
been completed and processing plan and machinery has been delivered. How-
ever, the project continues to experience difficulties in recruitment of
staff and face problems arising from a sharp decline in the marketed
production of raw nuts. The producer price has been recently increased and
the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) is considering the introduction of addition-
al incentive and tree-planing schemes for farmers, but these measures are
not likely to have a significant impact for several years. As a result,
the completed cashewnut factories are expected to operate well below capa-
city for a number of years. Since the remaining balance under the loan has
been committed or expected to be disbursed within three months after the
Closing Date, this date was not postponed.
IThese notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
The project has shown significant improvement in procurement, and
maintained a satisfactory execution of physical infrastructure work.
Increased coordination between the various project related agencies and
parastatals at regional level has improved project management. Staff turn-
over has decreased and key staff are largely in place. The coffee rehabi-
litation and expansion program is proceeding well and there has been
further increase in the production of beans and cotton. However, official
maize production figures have dropped, due mainly to increased importance
of parallel markets as well as increased movement into other more remunera-
tive crops such as beans, pigeon peas, etc. Because fertilizer trials on
soil failed to produce conclusive results, emphasis is now being shifted to
cultivation methods, spacing, seed varieties, etc., from which useful
results could be expected in the short term.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow
pace. There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma
Commercial Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the
coastal centers and a postponement of procurement of lake transport facili-
ties (pending adequate fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). In view of these
difficulties, we have agreed to postpone the Closing Date only if project
activities were scaled down considerably. Details of the amendments are
being worked out. In the meantime, processing of withdrawal applications
under the credit would continue until February 28, 1982.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project has been redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a three-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign has had little impact on the production of
food crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension
and prices have also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of
staff houses and village store is delayed due to shortage of building
materials.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
The project has continued to show overall improvement in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. The closing date has been postponed to
March 31, 1983 to permit the project to reach its targetted objectives.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The Afforestation Program continues to be ahead of schedule
although land preparation and planting has been less satisfactory.
Construction and maintenance have been well behind schedule mainly due to
shortages of cement, vehicle spare parts and other building materials.
Training program for junior field staff is underway and will be extended to
senior grades.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Installation of the new processing line has been completed and is
capable of producing good quality tobacco. Construction of roads, fencing,
drainage and maintenance workshop has been delayed mainly due to non-avail-
ability of construction material. Construction of TTPC office block has
been dropped and TTPC head office staff will now move into TAT office
building. Similarly, a separate building to accommodate maintenance faci-
lities will not be constructed and one of the godowns at Morogoro will be
used to house these facilities. Phase IB construction program at Kurasini
has also been scaled down and will now consist of railway siding, drainage,
gatehouse, changing room and petrol station. These changes have been
introduced in view of the increased costs and in order to provide funds for
spare parts and conversion of furnace to coal firing. The project faces a
serious problem caused by the continued low tobacco production which might
have serious effects on project return and TAT's financial position. In
order to encourage tobacco producers, the average tobacco price was again
raised last year. Virtually all credit funds have been committed and
expected to be disbursed within three months from the Closing Date; hence
this date was not postponed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credit2 of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Overall project implementation has improved with the easing of
cement shortages and the improved arrangement for diesel fuel supply.
Specifically, the agriculture, land use, and roads components are making
satisfactory progress and the water resource development has improved.
With close supervision, disbursement of credit funds has also improved.
Although US$467,000 is being held down, because the Project Controller is
retaining final payment of the aerial survey pending agreement on proper
billing and for the WaterMaster Plan awaiting delivery of the final three
volumes of the Plan, disbursement of this amount would increase total
disbursmewnt by US$3.1 million.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Factory
construction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the
First Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full
capacity are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Deve-
lopment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable
candidates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant
and advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - M4wanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Good progress has continued in the technical aspects of shallow
well contruction, forestry development, pasture trials at Malya Range
Management Station, and cassava variety trials at Ukiriguru. However,
agricultural extension and training has been poor. This problem has
2Credit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangements; Credit no. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
affected the performance of Crop Verification Trials; only 20% of the trial
target were laid down and the results were poor. Another reason for the
poor results of the trial program has been lack of coordination with
Ukiriguru Research Station. The post of Extension and Training Specialist,
as well as a number of positions at area supervisor level, remain vacant.
Proposals for strengthening the Ukiriguru Research Station as a training
center to develop a strong, field-oriented extension service have been
prepared, and more emphasis would be placed on the problem of soil erosion
and soil conservation.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This credit became effective on May 18, 1981.
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1985
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981 and progress on
physical implementation has been satisfactory. However, although the
Government has agreed to assume TSh. 18.0 million of TPB's overdraft, poor
sales of pyrethrum and high administrative cost continues to weaken the
Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board's financial position. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on April 27, 1981. The project got
off to a slow start due to delays in appointing the General Manager and the
Chief Engineer, but is now expeced to gain momentum. Some start has been
made in the tea nursery and fuelwood planting. The Ukalawa factory site
has been selected and tender documents should be issued shortly. Supplier
bids for the factory machinery have also been received and evaluated, and
orders have been placed.
Credit No. 1970-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Milling Project:
US$43.0 million Credit of April 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
July 15, 1981; Closing Date - June 30, 1987
This credit became effective on July 15, 1981.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Overall project completion has reached 56%. Construction of VMT
houses and two secondary schools has been delayed due to lack of building
materials, means of transport, local funds and incentives on the part of
the villagers. While the overall educational objectives of the project
will be met by the closing date, the specific objectives of the secondary
school facilities' survey will only be partially fulfilled.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Design work is near completion and physical project implementa-
tion is gaining momentum. Tenders for civil works are either under
evaluation or contracts have been awarded. Due to increase in construction
cost, the cost of civil works to be financed under the project is expected
to be above appraisal estimates. Implementation of educational objectives
is reasonably underway and related issues have now been properly identified
and will be addressed accordingly.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Eduction Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has started providing posi-
tion briefs to respective Directorates of the Ministry of Education. In
addition, briefs on primary education and support services have also been
prepared. Nominations for fellowships for the National Examination Council
and for Teacher Training Colleges are being processed but little progress
has been achieved for acquiring technical assistance. Work for the Teacher
Training Colleges in Zanzibar is ahead of schedule. Sites have been
selected and a team from the PIU visited Zanzibar to carry out preliminary
surveys. Staff houses are now available for use by the faculty of the
Nkrumah College.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruit-
ment of project coordinator is being finalized and the consultants for the
rehabilitation of project lodges and hotels, have been appointed. The con-
struction site identified for the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
(HTTI) proved to be unsuitable because of size and shape, thereby delaying
implementation of this component. Alternative sites are being explored.
Improvements to the airport terminal is likely to be dropped because the



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Government was able to secure alternative financing. Vehicles for
anti-poaching activities have been received and allocated to TANAPA and the
Ngorongoro Conservation Authority. Tenders for the supply of radio
telephone and binoculars are being prepared.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation. The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assis-
tance contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979, and
the Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the pro-
ject.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although implementation has been slow due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, some improvement has
been recorded recently and the Government's contribution to the National
Trucking Company for equity in the transport companies was increased to
T Sh 28 million, still falling short of T Sh 50 million to be made up in
1981/1982. Technical Assistance has been extended since 1978; currently
about 18 experts are assisting in the project implementation. All five
regional trucking companies were created in early 1981 and a Board of
Directors appointed with most of management staff recruited.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. All three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post. All 120 students are receiving training in various
engineering colleges overseas and are making good progress. Bids for
procurement of road maintenance equipment have been received, and are being
analyzed by the Government.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Credit No. 1173-TA - Telecommunications I Project; US$27.0
million Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date - June 30, 1986
This credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Project implementation is progressing well. The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which re-
quires that the pipe work link to the refinery and the existing network be
completed and ready for use at the same time as the jetty. THA has been
asked to decide on who will design and carry out the actual site work, as
well as finance the foreign exchange costs. The original Closing Date of
September 30, 1981 was postponed in order to complete project work.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential
components although overall implementation progress is slow. In order to
accelerte progress on house consolidation under the first project, initiate
cost recovery in squatter areas, and strengthen the Dar es Salaam City
Council, the Government, THB, SIDO, Dar es Salaam City Council, and the
Association have all agreed to reshape the project. The changes
included: addition of management costs for the DCC consolidation unit and
a collecton unit within the Treasury; strengthening of the DCC maintenance
operations; deletion of the Nutrition Extension and MCH guidelines and
SIDO's second site in Tabora which was necessitated by a cost overrun on
the first site; and reduction of THB house loans. Funds for the
consolidation and collection units have been provided through marginally
trimming the demonstration houses, community facilities, THB/ARDHI
promotion and training, and savings on the Finance Study and project
preparation.  The reshaping was finalized in July and recruitment for the
new management unit is underway.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The new water system was to be in operation by August 1981;
however, the Mindu dam will be completed about 24 months behind



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
schedule. In view of the continuing poor performance of the contractor
(Cicol) for the Mindu dam, the Government had to terminate their contract
and negotiations with the initial bidder is currently in progress.   The
project cost is currently estimated at US$30.1 million, or about 56% over
the appraisal estimate of US$19.2 million. Progress in project implemen-
tation and the expected large increase in project cost is being closely
monitored. The loan Closing Date of June 30, 1981 was not postponed
pending receipt from the Government of a realistic schedule for completion
of the project and indication of how they intend to finance the cost
overruns; however, it was agreed that disbursements would continue until
December 31, 1981.
ENERGY SECTOR
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
Drilling of the onshore well under the project has been abandoned
because of various technical difficulties which were aggravated by manage-
rial problems, particularly the absence of close and effective project
control. Drilling of the offshore well is proceeding satisfactorily.
Little progress has been made on the technical assistance component of the
project, except for the TPDC management and fiscal study, where consultants
are already in the field.
Credit 1199-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum II: US$20.0 million
equivalent Credit of January 13, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
February 23, 1982; Closing Date - December 31, 1983.
This credit became effective on February 23, 1982.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: IJS$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
This loan is fully committed. However, because of slow implemen-
tation of some of the sub-projects financed by TIB under this project, the
closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 in order to finalize
disbursement. The undisbursed balance remaining under the loan to date is
US$570,000.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. 1750-TA3 - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980 and commitments
and disbursements are progressing better than estimated at appraisal. In
the light of the difficult situation in Tanzania, particularly the severe
foreign exchange shortage, TIB is revising its operational strategy to
focus in the near-term on providing funds which would enable projects to
replace, balance, or modernize their machinery and equipment, improve capa-
city utilization, promote exports, and otherwise assist improvement of
balance of payments. TIB is also being encouraged to use a portion of the
Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to meet part of the requirements for
imported inputs of some of its high-priority projects which are likely to
face very low capacity operation, or even closure, following meagre alloca-
tion of foreign exchange.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and
all technical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating performance of existing mills. The project was technically com-
pleted in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to
utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by another six
months to December 31, 1981.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiehcy and capacity utilization investments, and training
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and rela-
ted techniques. Although the credit was virtually completely committed,
some previously approved studies were cancelled and about US$90,000 -
100,000 became available from savings on other studies. The Closing Date
was therefore postponed by 12 months to June 30, 1982 to continue disburse-
ment on the amounts already committed for studies already in progress.
3In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project imlementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with the awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project completion.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30.0 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979; Date of Efectiveness - April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation has improved, particularly the
project management arrangement. Project completion is now expected
earlier, by mid-1984. However, the project is faced with a US$25.0 million
foreign exchange gap which the Government and NDC/SPM is being asked to
resolve. New tender invitation for the escarpment road were sent out to
six technically qualified firms based on revised technical specification
and easier commercial terms. Some progress has also been made regarding
implementation of the township including financing of the foreign exchange
component through a subsidiary loan from' the Kuwait Fund.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983
The loan is about 70% conmitted and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
nillon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on February 10, 1981 and TIB is
currently in the process of recruiting an agricultural economist for the
Technical Assistance Unit. Processing of study applications is proceeding
smoothly, the general training component is also being implemented satis-
factorily.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Credit No. 1206-TA - Third Technical Assistance Project: US$12.0
million equivalent Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date -
June 30, 1987
This credit is not yet effective.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1982
This credit became effective on May 12, 1981 and approximately
US$5.0 million have been disbursed. The new institutional arrangements for
import allocation are working well. A draft policy statement for both
agricultural research and extension have been prepared and are being
incorporated within an overall agricultural policy document. The target
for the Government's own contribution to the foreign exchange requirements
of agriculture was actually exceeded during the period April 1-June 30,
1981.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East
African Community.4
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs,
lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improve-
ments for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep
water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training
school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of
several berths and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold
4Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors
dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is
given in this Annex. The Closing Date for loans 638-EA, and 865-EA have
passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed
on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are
continuing disbursements.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
storage facilities and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a
lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has
been completed and a joint project completion report was issued in January
1979. Because of shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor
project elements have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second
phase of modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar
es Salaam, modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for
Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been awarded for these project
elements with the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in
Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with
increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in
Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. Legis-
lation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports Author-
ity has been enacted. Management of Ports in both countries is competent.
Some US$34.50 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.15 million of Loan 865-EA
has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds of
October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                         (US$ million)
Kenya                                       0.7
Tanzania                                    0.6
Total                                    1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                       1.7
Tanzania                                    0.3
Total                                    2.0
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980.  The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procure-
ment caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation
of headquarters. About US$32.20 million of the loan had been disbursed to
date. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ million
Kenya                      2.4
Tanzania                   3.5
Uganda                     0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$11.73 million
of the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommited balance amounts
to US$3.0 million.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF JANUARY 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor            Type of Business        Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar       Food Processing           3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture            1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products       Household Utensils         1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments                 6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.05   0.69    4.74
Total commitments now held by IFC       2.62    0.55   3.17
Total undisbursed                      0.06       -    0.06



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to the Association : November 1980
(b)  Appraisal mission                        : April - May 1981
(c)  Completion of negotiations               :  February 1982
(d)  Estimated date of effectiveness          : July 1982
tI.    Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
III.   Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would take measures, in consultation with the
Association and not later than June 30, 1983, to ensure
coordinated harvesting and logging of forest resources in the
project area by major users (paragraph 40);
(b)  A Work Study Specialist, satisfactory to the Association, would
be employed no later than December 31, 1982 (paragraph 45).
(c)  A Working Plan for the project, based on the existing
plantation inventory, would be prepared by July 31, 1983 and
thereafter implemented by project management with subsequent
plans to be undertaken every five years (paragraph 47);
(d)  Recruitment of the Assistant Project Manager for Finance and
Planning (APMFP) and the Workshop Manager, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, would be a
condition of project effectiveness (paragraph 48);
(e)  The Government would prepare and furnish to the Association
by June 30, 1983 a study to estimate the appropriate level of
stwupage rates for its plantation forestry resources and
take promptly thereafter all measures as shall be agreed upon
(paragraph 49).



(II                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15896
J                                                                t1
"\f~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~9 5rf }l1e  _t7   R wse_eedvrQ       
I                 0~~~~~DI/
\     u:iingcu.        /                 k                                       , 
, T .,.W.R  E!T                           N/w
42                                                                                             N |
1>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
q ,-                    V /11 -  .-
>1     ) x--                                       '             ,+    :  f''         '   X   asXr"X 9    1,  ,-n -
S    I A N Z A N I A  , t  5       \-t                 -- "1  - --         5 >'l-      t      1' K'   - '    )'tt -I 
M1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
:                        t X    W:2:E   L i:                                                                   k L i fiC L 
Cone   81900000'--ct      .         .                      - '',.,,'"A              -<-9:t'" ......... -             "-,;:SOHL FRSR RJC
lOt I >19M3/tOrh   N j  V  45~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-Ph I2
*i,KZN ',N ->''; < ;   X      -     '',y> p, , ''      Ps-                    A --ose I[ot Aroe-cs
-.  Pl-,l  WIlD Wto1   lh 12 At..
.,0195 ,.t"to,   A   ro 2  Y.t A 1-o12
-dSo. H 11 So- Io
'_,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   P-- D., ,,, ' ,t,
-f_
A N.,>
Eocooolooo                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P'pMi "
'7-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'o-o  /7                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
j5'%>   >'u  /                                       ~~~~~~~~SAO  HILL FORESTRY  PROJECT
U'  -wQ   0  >   C                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Phase EL- Plantation Areas



