Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3634-TA
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
March 18, 1982
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performances
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
US$ 1.00                  =         Tsh. 8.25
Tsh 1.00                  =         US$ 0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)     3                   3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m )                  35.3 cubic feet
I hectare (ha)            =         2.47 acres
1 Kilometer (Km)       2  =         0.62 miles
1 square Kilometer (Km ) =          0.39 square miles
1 Kilogram (Kg)           =         2.2 lb
1 Metric ton (ton)         =         1000 Kg = 2,204 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
AFO               Assistant Forest Officer
APMFP       =    Assistant Project Manager(Finance and Planning)
APMO              Assistant Project Manager (Operations)
c.i.f.            Cost, insurance, freight
FA          =    Forest Assistant
FAO/CP      =    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FAO/TCP           Food and Agriculture Organization/Technical Cooperation Program
FO          =    Forest Officer
GOT         =    Government of Tanzania
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
4 I         =    Mean Annual Increment
m (r)       =    cubic meter roundwood
/



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...............................................                       1
A.  Project Background ......... . .  ...................... . ................  1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ..................................                  1
C.  Previous Bank Group Assistance ...........................                  3
II.  THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR ....          ..............    .....................   3
A.  Resources .........         ...................................             3
B.  Institutions              ........................... .................     4
C.  Production and Marketing ............ ..  .................                 9
D.  Forestry Policy ........ . .....  ......................... ....... .       6
E.  Bank Group Assistance . ............................           ......       8
F.  Review of Sao Hill Forestry Project I ...               .................   8
III. THE PROJECT .         .       . ..8
II.THPRJC  ................................................... 
A.  Project Rationale and Design .....            ........................    10
B.  The Project Area .....  ... .......................................    11
C.  General Description               ......................................  12
D.  Detailed Features ........................................                 13
E.  Project Costs           .............................................     19
-F.  Financing .........................                                        20
IV. PROJECT IMPLENENTATION    ...21
A.  Organization and Management                                 .              21
B. Procurement    ..22
C.  Disbursements         ..........                                          23
D. Accounts, Audit and Reporting .24
E. Environmental Impact    ..24
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ...... ..25
A. Production ..25
B. Markets                      ... .27
C. Prices  ....29
VI BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                     . . .31
A. General .........                                                 ..........    31
B. Financial Returns..... - - ..31
C. Economic Returns - ... .......32
VII. ASSURANCES TO BE OBTAINED AND RECONMENDATIONS .....35
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofi
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES:
Supporting Tables and Charts:
ANNEX  1:       Table T-l.l :      Summary of Project Costs
Table T-l.2 :      Development of Existing Plantations
Table T-1.3 :      Development of New Plantations
Table T-1.4 :      Cost of Replanting Clearfelled Pine Areas
Table T-l.5 :      Nursery Operating Costs
Table T.1.6 :      Fire Protection Costs
Table T-1.7 :      Plantation Roads and Tracks -Construction and
Maintenance Costs
Table T-l.8 :      Capital Cost of Buildings and Structures.
Table T-l.9 :      Vehicles, Tractors, Machinery and Equipment -
Capital Costs
Table T-l.lO:      Project Administration - Local Staff Salaries
and Wages
Table T-l.ll:      Headquarters General Services Costs
Table T-1.12:      Project Administration - Vehicle Operating Costs
Table T-l.13:      Technical Assistance
Table T-l.14:      Staff Study Tours
Table T-l.15:      Retroactive Financing
ANNEX 2:        Table T-2.1 :      Pine per Hectare Models:Financial and Economic
Table T-2.2 :      Eucalyptus per Hectare Models: Financial and
Economic
Table T-2.3::      Phase II Afforestation Program: Financial and
Economic Rates of Return
Table T-2.4 :      Overall Afforestation Program: Financial Rate
of Return
Table T-2.5:       Overall Afforestation Program: Economic Rate
of Return
Table T-2.6 :      Government Project Cash Flows
Table T-2.7(a):   Price Structure of Standing Logs
Table T-2.7(b):   Price Structure of Standing Pulpwood
Table T-2.8 :      Import Parity Price of Wood
Table T-2.9 :      Export Parity Price of Sawlogs
ANNEX 3:        Table T-3.1 :      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table T-3.2 :      Physical Work Schedule (Key Indicators)
ANNEX 4:        Table T-4.1 :      Average Recorded and Estimated Production and
Apparent Consumption of Sawlogs in Tanzania.
Table T-4.2 :      National Supply and Demand for Sawlogs, 1980-2010.
Table T-4.3 :      Production and Price Trends for Sawn Timber in
Tanzania, 1977-81.
Table T-4.4 :      General Pattern of Sawnwood Consumption in Tanzania.
ANNEX 5:        Table T-5.1 :      Assessment of Labor Availability.
Charts and Maps:
Chart C-1:         Project Organization
Chart C-2:         Project Implementation Schedule
Map No. IBRD 15896
Selected Documents Available in Project File
Project Preparation Report
Working Papers



I. BACKGROUND
A.   Project Background
1.01      In March 1981, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) requested the
International Development Association (IDA) to consider financing the second
phase of a long-term industrial afforestation program to meet the future
domestic demand for sawntimber, paper and wood products. A first phase
project, costing US$8.1 million, was financed with a Bank loan of US$ 7.0
million (Loan 1307-TA) in 1976 and implemented in SAO Hill which is one of
the most promising industrial forest development areas in Tanzania. The
implementation of this first phase project has generally been successful and
about 18,000 ha of new plantations have been established, 500 ha have been
replanted and 11,30C ha of old plantations have been maintained. The first
phase project will be completed in December, 1981.
1.02      Assistance to the GOT in the preparation of the second phase was
provided by the Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP) in October/November 1980. IDA provided guidance during preparation.
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission comprising
Messrs A. Sidhu, B.K. Zegge, S. Sengamalay(IDA)and M. Grut (FAO/CP), which
visited Tanzania in April/May 1981
B.    The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Agriculture dominates the Tanzanian economy, accounting for 50%
of GDP and more than 80% of export earnings. About 90% of Tanzania's popula-
tion of 17 million lives in rural areas, with approximately 2.25 million farm
families grouped together in 8,000 villages. Smallholder farmers contribute
about 75% of Tanzania's agricultural export earnings and more than 80% of the
value of marketed cereal production. Their main food crops are maize, cassava
and millet. Cash crops produced by smallholders include coffee, tea, cashews,
pyrethrum, cloves, cotton and tobacco. Large-scale farming is confined
to a relatively small number of estates producing sisal, tea, coffee, sugar,
wheat and rice. Livestock continues to play a relatively minor role in the
cash economy as much of it is reared for subsistence purposes. With a
significant proportion of the cultivable area still unutilized and a suitable
range of agro-climatic conditions for producing a variety of crops, the
long-term agricultural potential is considered to be good. Tanzania's
agricultural export structure is somewhat more diversified than that of most
other African countries and seven commodities (coffee, cotton, cloves,sisal,
cashew nuts, tea and tobacco) account for more than two-thirds of total export
earnings. Within agriculture, the forestry sub-sector plays an important role
in providing fuelwood, not only for domestic consumption but also for the
production of tobacco and tea. To the extent that these forestry resources
are being rapidly depleted in tobacco and tea growing areas, their inadequate
supply is acting as a constraint on the sustenance and expansion of existing
levels of production of these crops.



-2-
1.04        The long-term performance of Tanzania's agricultural sector
has been disappointing and the trend growth rate has hardly kept pace with
population growth. According to official statistics, agricultural value
added in constant prices grew at 4.9% per annum during 1970-1979, with sub-
sistence agriculture growing by 7.1% per annum and monetary agriculture by
only 2.1% per annum. 1/ The total export volume of the seven major crops
(para 1.03) in 1980 was 28% lower than in 1966 and 34% lower than in 1973.
As a result of better relative producer prices, marketed food production has
fared better than export crop production during the last half of the 1970s,
but is still below the highest levels achieved in the major foodgrains
earlier in the 1970s.
1.05      There are several reasons for this disappointing level of overall
productivity in agriculture. The major ones are: inadequate producer price
incentives, insufficient allocation of foreign exchange to meet basic import
needs of the agricultural sector including that of the supporting infrastruc--
ture in processing and transport, shortages of basic inputs and spares,
the generally inefficient operations of public crop authorities, inadequate
agricultural extension and research services, the villagization program in
the mid-1970s which moved many farmers away from their established farms and
the droughts of 1973/74 and 1974/75.
1.06      Other factors which inhibit improved performance of the agricultural
sector in the country include socio-political constraints, food security
objectives and the complexity of the decision-making process. The socio-
political constraints are largely a product of frequent and, sometimes,
experimental institutional changes such as villagization, decentralization
of Government and the establishment of numerous parastatals. These have
had destabilizing and, in some cases, disruptive effects on basic agricul-
tural services and hence on production, at least in the short-term. On the
other hand, their anticipated desirable long-term effects (e.g. improved
extension through higher literacy and concentration of rural population)
have yet to take hold. Similarly a firm commitment to long-term socio-
political goals, such as equitable growth in rural incomes, continues to
prevent the adoption of otherwise attractive solutions to current production
and distribution problems in the agricultural sector and other sectors of the
economy. Food security objectives, vigorously pursued by the GOT since the
disastrous drought of 1974/75, have made it almost impossible for the Govern-
ment to shift the balance of relative producer prices away from foodgrains
towards export crops. This limits Tanzania's capacity to maximize its
foreign exchange earnings. Prompt Government response to domestic factors
inhibiting agricultural performance has been often constrained by the complex-
ity of the decision-making process within Government. This is further
complicated by the lack of a coherent long-term strategy for agriculture and
the general shortage of qualified and experienced staff in key ministries
and agencies.
1/   The Bank notes that the basis for the subsistence agriculture estimates
is unrealiable and the trend may be somewhat exaggerated.



1.07      In the agricultural sector, a development program needs to be
formulated which would (a) improve agricultural productivity at the farm
level, (b) reverse the decline in the production of both food and export
crops, and (c) improve the efficiency of agricultural parastatals and agro-
processing industries. The issues involved in the formulation and imple-
mentation of such a program are currently being partly addressed by the
Export Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1133-TA) approved in April, 1981
and by the Government's Program for Economic Survival launched in July,
1981.
1.08      The decline in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks and
external shocks (the break-up of the East African Community in 1977, the war
with Uganda in 1978/79, oil price increases and world-wide stagflation during
1970s and a general decline in prices of agricultural commodities) have all
contributed to a severe economic and financial crisis in the country which
is characterized by an alarming deterioration in the balance of payments,
budgetary deficits (shortages of recurrent expenditures), shortages of
essential commodities including spares and petroleum products and gross
underutilization of capital and labor stocks.
C. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.09      Since its joining the Bank Group in 1963, Tanzania has received 49
IDA credits and 19 Bank loans amounting to US$976.3 million. Tanzania has
also been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were
extended for the development of the common services and the East African
Development Bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through
the East African Community. In support of Tanzania's overall development
strategy, Bank Group lending operations have assisted a wide range of
activities. Agriculture and related activities have received 30% of the Bank
Group's direct lending to Tanzania. The lending program in agriculture has
featured three main types of projects. A series of regional rural development
projects geared to agricultural production and the development of regional
infrastructure. A second group consists of projects that are designed to
improve general support services for the agricultural sector (e.g. credit,
storage and marketing etc). A third group of projects is centered on specific
crops or subsectors (e.g. tea, pyrethrum, dairy, fisheries and forestry).
II. THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
A. Resources
2.01      About 45% of Tanzania's land area (about 40 million hectares)
is generally classified as forest land. Nearly 33% of the forest land is
protected forest reserves, while the other 67% is natural woodlands on public
land which are nearly all unprotected and are disappearing fast in areas with



high population pressure. Except for 60,000 ha of softwood plantations and
about 900,000 ha of closed indigenous forests, most of the forests are
"miombo" woodland, dominated by the Brachystegia/ Isoberlinia association.
These are made up of slow growing and scattered trees which yield limited
quantities of commercial timber. Due to low stocking of merchantable timber
per hectare and difficult accessibility only 22% of the 900,000 ha of closed
indigenous forests is estimated to be commercially exploitable. About 50% of
the 60,000 ha are under softwood forest reserve plantations, of which 50% is
in the Sao Hill area and the rest is scattered throughout the country. About
12% of the area under indigenous forest reserves is gazetted as protected
catchment forests. The indigenous forests supply most of the fuelwood and
timber for the population and these are obtained free of charge for domestic
use from forests on public land or by licence from forest reserves.
B. Institutions
2.02      The Forest Division, Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation (TWICO),
and the Southern Paper Mills Company (SPMC), are the three main institutions
directly involved in forestry and forestry products.
Forest Division
2.03      The Forest Division within the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism has overall responsibility for forest development, protection and
conservation. All forest reserve plantations are owned by the State through
the Forest Division and the implementation of all national forest projects,
including the Sao Hill Forestry Project, is the responsibility of the Division.
Management of indigenous forest resources on non-gazetted public land is
the responsibility of Regional Development Directorates (under the Prime
Minister's Office) through the Regional Natural Resources Officer, who has
responsibility for all technical matters concerning forestry and other
natural resources at the regional level. Technical and development matters
relating to forestry and other natural resources at district level are
handled by a District Natural Resources Officer, who is responsible to the
District Development Director.
2.04       The Forest Division is headed by the Director of Forests and has
four sections.  The Management and Development Section is responsible for the
design and implementation of national forestry projects. Project managers of
such national projects are responsible to the Head of the Management and
Development Section. However, the Project Manager of the Sao Hill Forestry
Project, because of the size and overall importance of the Project, reports
directly to the Director of Forests. The Survey and Inventory Section is
responsible for all survey, mapping and inventory work of the Forest DivisiLon.
The Manpower and Training Section is responsible for personnel administrati.on,
education and training. Formal non-professional training is done at the
Olmotonyi Forestry Training Institute which offers a two-year certificate
course for candidates with Form four (Forest Assistants), and two-year



- 5 -
diploma course for candidates with Form six, or a one-year course for the
two-year certificate holders (Assistant Forest Officers). The Forest Indus-
tries Training Institute (FITI) at Moshi offers short courses (up to six
months) to workers in the Forest Division and the Tanzania Wood Industries
Corporation (TWICO) in logging, sawmilling and woodproduct making. There
are plans to extend FITI's courses to tool maintenance, pitsawying and wood
preservation. In addition, there are two ILO-supported Workers' Training
Centers at Sao Hill and Pongai. The University of Dar-es-Salaam's Faculty of
Agriculture, Forestry and Veterinary Science at Morogoro offers a three-year
program leading to a Bachelor degree and higher degrees in forestry.
2.05      Forestry research is formally done by the Research Section of the
Forestry Division and has two units dealing with silviculture and wood
utilization based at Lushoto and Moshi respectively. A Forestry Research
Institute is curently under formation and it is intended to be an autonomous
body with a board of directors and seven centers specializing in forest
management (Lushoto), timber and forest engineering (Moshi), low-land affores-
tation (Kibaha), plantation silviculture (Sao Hill), miombo woodland (Tabora),
arid zone forestry (Dodoma) and southern zone silviculture and management
(Rondo).
2.06      In 1980 there were 54 professional forest officers (graduates)
in the Forest Division (for 118 established posts). In addition there were
14 professional foresters on the staff of the Faculty of Forestry of the
University of Dar es Salaam, five in the regions, four in other agencies, and
six in TWICO. Including the 1980 graduating class of forestry students, the
total professional forestry strength of Tanzania was 93. This is a larger
number than in any other East African country. In the same year there were
250 technicians - Assistant Forest Officers (Diploma level) and Forest
Assistants (certificate level) - for 374 established posts.
Tanzania Wood Industries Corporation (TWICO)
2.07      TWICO, a holding parastatal responsible for public participation in
the country's sawmilling and wood-based industries, owns a number of sawmills
and panel mills in the country. The individual mills are operated and
managed as autonomous subsidiaries. TWICO also owns the Tanzania Timber
Marketing Company (Tantimber) which is responsible for the marketing of sawn
timber produced by TWICO-mills. Tantimber has monopoly on the import and
export business for timber.
Southern Paper Mills Company (SPMC)
2.08      SPMC is a subsidiary of the National Development Corporation (NDC)
and has been formed to operate and manage the Mufindi pulpmill (which is
partly financed by the World Bank Group - Ln/Cr No. 1650/875-TA). Although
the implementation of the pulpmill project has had serious start-up problems,
its construction has started and production is estimated to start in 1984-85.
The pulpmill will have an installed capacity of 60,000 tons of pulp per
annum.



C. Production and Marketing
2.09      No reliable data for the production or consumption of wood exists
in Tanzania. However, wood production comes mainly from 27 million hectares
of natural woodlands, and about 90% of it is used for fuelwood and poles.
The bulk of fuelwood consumption is for domestic purposes. Wood for indus-
trial use accounts for only 10% of total wood production. The analysis in
this report deals only with the demand for and supply of wood for such
industrial purposes.
2.10      According to official s5atistics on log removals, the country's
supply of logs averaged 195,000 m (r) during 1978-1980, made up of 63%
hardwoods and 37% softwoods. However, an analysis of production trends for
logs is difficult since only part of the actual production is recorded. In
order to avoid payment of stumpage fees, some pitsawyers often do not declare
their output from logs. A study by FA0 in 1974 concluded that actual produc-
tion was two-and-one-half times greater than recorded production but this
estimate would appear to be high, particularly for softwood whose cutting is
more effectively controlled by the Forest Department than that of hardwoods.
A more realistic assumption would be that recorded production represents
about 50% of actual production of softwoods and 40% of hardwoSds, so that
average log production in 1978-80 was in fact about 451,000 m (r) (Annex 4,
Table T-4 1). This is consistent with the estimated average demand for
480,000 m (r) during 1978-80, a period in which shortages of local sawn
timber and wood-based panels were frequently experienced.
2.11      Tanzania's industrial forestry sub-sector has a limited range of
products which include sawn timber, plywood, fibreboard, particleboard,
poles and fuelwood. Sawmilling dominates the sub-sector's production and
consists of about 100 operating sawmills most of which are privately owned.
They are typically very small and operate with obsolete equipment. Their
efficiency and recovery rates are very low. The share of pitsawyers is about
74% of total recorded production of hardwoods but is only 27% of softioods.
Total production in the sawmilling industry was estimated at 190,000 m in
1980, of which TWICO accounted for less than one-third. There are two
plywood mills with a combined rated capacity of 12,600 tons per annum, a
fibreboard factory with a capacity of 39,000 tons per year, and a particleboard
mill with a rated capacity of 9,000 m per annum. All the plywood, fibreboard
and particleboard mills are owned and operated by TWICO. A pulp and paper
mill with a capacity of 60,000 tons per year is estimated to start production
in 1984. Both the sawmills and the board mills have been operating well
below their rated capacities in recent years, largely as a result of using
obsolete and worn-out equipment coupled with shortages of spare parts, bottle-
necks in logging operations and ineffective management. This has led to
supply falling below domestic demand for these products. The supply of paper
and paper products, which relies heavily on imports, has been severely con-
strained by shortages of foreign exchange.



2.12      Tanzania has been a net importer of most wood panels and of sawn
softwood, although it has occasionally exported sawn hardwoods. Much of the
production in the sawn timber and wood-based panel industry described in para
2.11 is geared to meet domestic consumption. Log exports are banned. The
present marketing system of wood and wood products consists of direct sales
from non-TWICO mills to consumers, while sawn timber production from TWICO-
mills is marketed by Tantimber.  Production from board mills is distributed by
the mills themselves. The industry is protected by import duties ranging from
30% on sawnwood, plywood and particleboard to 40% on fibreboard.
2.13      Domestic prices of sawn timber vary according to species and sizes
because of the characteristics of the timber and their yield in sawmilling.
Pine timber has been priced slightly below or close to ordinary hardwood.
In recent years the shortage of sawn timber has resulted in an average annual
increase of 7% in real prices for high quality hardwoods and 4.5% for utility
timber (Annex 4, Table T-4.3). Since haulage capacity is limited, and has
become worse in recent years, transport costs have had major influence on the
supply and consumption pattern of manufactured wood products. Manufacturers
and distributors of wood-based panels usually use a national freight cost
system which sets freight charges on the basis of volume instead of haulage
distance. This system discourages transporters from catering for markets far
beyond a reasonable trucking distance. This had led to shortages of panels
in distant areas of the country. On the other hand, this system has not been
applied to sawn timber, so that appropriate freight charges are reflected in
higher prices for sawn-timber in those areas which are far away from a
sawmill.
2.14       The forestry sub-sector and its related industries are estimated
to account for about 4% of the GDP, of which forest industries contribute
slightly over 1%. Exports of forestry products are negligible. However,
official data on the production and value of forestry products do not ade-
quately reflect the important role played by indigenous forest resource in
providing fuelwood, building poles, timber and minor forest products to meet
the rural population's basic needs and for processing of tobacco and tea. On
mountains and slopes, forests provide catchment to control water flow and
protect soils.
2.15       Similarly, the contribution of the forestry sub-sector to Government
revenue is small, largely because about 90% of the total consumption of
forestry products in form of fuelwood and poles is obtained free of charge and
the royalties levied on wood for commercial purposes, although they have been
increased in recent years, are still low. In 1979/80, revenue obtained from
forestry products accounted for less than 0.2% of total Government recurrent
revenue. During 1976/77-1979/80 Government recurrent expenditure in the
forestry sub-sector has varied between 0.2% and 0.3% of total Government
recurrent expenditures.



-8-
D. Forestry Policy
2.16      The Government's forestry policy aims at (a) acquiring enough
land for afforestation to achieve an ecological balance and to meet future
needs for forest produce of all kinds; (b) introducing management of forestry
resources on public lands and villages and intensifying management in gazetted
forest reserves in order to remedy the decline of indigenous forests and to
reforest those areas which have been depleted of fast growing species; and
(c) promoting a viable forestry subsector through appropriate research,
extension and pricing of forest products. The major challenges facing the
Government within the forestry sub-sector include the need to design a
long-term afforestation program to provide adequate supply of fuelwood (as
the major source of energy) to the rural and urban poor who cannot afford
alternative sources of energy; to improve productivity and efficiency in the
sawmilling and wood-based industries, both of which are currently operating
far below their respective capacities; and the need to promote a viable
forestry development program which would ensure maximum contribution of the
forestry subsector to the national economy in the medium and long-term. The
GOT is attempting to meet these challenges through programs assisted by the
World Bank, FAO, and bilateral agencies (para. 2.18).
E. Bank Group Assistance
2.17      The Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), approved in 1976,
is the only project financed by the Bank Group to assist the implementation
of the Government's long-term program which is aimed at developing forest
resources to meet the country's requirements for timber and wood products
(for review of Project, see 'F' below). The Bank Group has also financed two
Rural Integrated Development Projects in Tabora and Mwanza-Shinyanga which
have forestry components aimed at establishing forestry woodlots by villagers
and district authorities to meet the demand for fuelwood and poles in these
areas. The implementation of these components is still at an early stage.
2.18      GOT is also receiving both financial and technical assistance
(on bilateral basis) from the governments of Sweden, Norway and Finland in
the wood processing industry. With this assistance, an investment program
has been formulated which is made up of short-term (mainly rehabilitation of
existing capacities), medium-term (principally geared to expansions and
modernization in existing mills) and long-term investments (consisting of
expanded production capacities outside existing mills). Expansions in Sao
Hill are planned in both the medium and long term.
F. Review of Sao Hill Forestry Project I
2.19      The first phase of Sao Hill Project was approved in July 1976
and became effective on December 10, 1976 and is scheduled for completion in



December 1981. No Completion Report on the project is yet available, but the
project's implementation was reviewed during appraisal of Phase II. Phase
I provided for the planting and maintenance of about 16,000 ha, and the
maintenance of some 11,000 ha of existing plantations; the construction of
about 164 km of primary and secondary forest roads, 393 km of tracks and
maintenance of 2,400 km of forest roads; construction of 214 staff houses of
various grades and 20 administrative and social buildings; research, training
and studies. Provision was also made for the employment of two internation-
ally recruited specialists (forest silviculturist/economist,and mechanical
engineer) and the employment of local technical, clerical and supporting
staff. On the basis of the review, the implementation of the first phase is
judged to have been successful with respect to the project-s afforestation
program in which the appraisal targets in nursery production, land prepara-
tion, planting and replanting have been significantly exceeded. As a result
about 18,000 ha of plantations are expected to be established by the comple-
tion of the Phase I. Performance was below appraisal targets in weeding,
construction of firebreaks, roads and staff housing largely due to delays in
procurement of machinery and equipment, lack of spares, cement, and poor
maintenance of vehicles and machinery. The water study and the road engineer-
ing study for the pulpmill were carried out, although the latter was subse-
quently financed from non-Project proceeds. The Project's afforestation
program was reasonably staffed by local professionals and technicians, except
for the post of financial controller which was not filled with appropriate
personnel. The post of mechanical engineer was not filled at all due to an
apparent lack of suitable candidates. As a result, the Project support
services (workshop and finances) were not effective and the Project suffered
from lack of internal controls and poor maintenance of Project vehicles and
equipment. The research trials were carried out satisfactorily and a system
of fire protection has been established in the Project.  Funds for study
tours under Phase I were not fully utilized, largely due to Project-s in-
ability to release staff.  The Project is expected to be implemented within
the appraisal cost estimates of US$8.1 million.
2.20      Although the Project Completion Report has yet to be prepared,
some conclusions can be drawn from the implementation of the first phase.
A reasonably good project implementation capacity, comprising qualified and
experienced staff and capital stock, has been established at Sao Hill.
However, there is need to consolidate and fully utilize this capacity by
(a) strengthening and streamlining project organization to ensure better
implementation of targets, (b) strengthening project financial management,
cost accounting and internal control procedures, (c) improving silvicultural
practices, (d) strengthening the operation of the mechanical workshop and its
spare parts supply system, (e) continuing the long-term research program
undertaken in Phase I as well as widening its scope to cover aspects of
agro-forestry, and (f) improving the existing fire protection system after
reassessing its needs and scope. The second phase Project has therefore been
designed to take account of the lessons from Phase I.



- 10 -
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale and Design
3.01      In recent years, the supply of sawn timber and other wood products
has generally been inadequate to meet domestic demand and this has resulted in
considerable increases in real prices for timber (paras 2.13). The shortage
of sawn timber has been largely a consequence of structural problems I/ in the
economy as a whole and in the sawmilling industry in particular, as well as
of high costs of exploiting the natural forests, some of which are inacces-
sible. The structural problems in the wood processing industry are being
addressed through the Nordic assistance program (para 2.18). Demand/supply
forecasts indicate that there would be further significant deficits in the
aggregate supply of sawlogs and hence of sawn timber after the year 2005,
unless new plantings are initiated during the next five years (paras 5.09-
5.10). According to inventory data of 1980, the existing plantations of
about 30,000 ha in Sao Hill if properly managed would be sufficient to supply
indefinitely the Sao Hill Sawmill with sawlogs and the proposed Pulp and
Paper Mill at Mufindi with pulpwood at their respective initial capacities.
Therefore the proposed expansion in plantations under the Project would be
needed to meet the projected deficits in the overall national demand for
sawlogs.
3.02      According to official estimates, increased supply of wood from
natural forests could not be sustained beyond the early 1990s if not supple-
mented with softwood plantations. Fast growing softwood plantations would be
the best alternative for increasing sawn timber supply to cover the estimalted
supply deficits. However, the establishment of new softwood plantations or
the expansion of existing ones is generally constrained by the availability
of ecologically suitable land. Sao Hill is one of the few areas in the
country with sufficient land and a proven technological package for softwood
plantations (paras 3.04-3.08). Low requirement for land preparation, and
good communication links with the rest of the country, make Sao Hill one of
the lowest cost production areas for softwood in the country.
3.03        The present and medium-term economic prospects in Tanzania (paras
1.06-1.08) require that the Project be designed to minimize possible adverse
effects from such an environment. Three key factors have influenced the
design of this Project. Firstly, there is the problem of inadequate Govern-
ment finance as manifest in current and projected budgetary deficits, parti-
cularly the general shortage of recurrent expenditure in the public sector.
Particular attention has, therefore, been given to keeping the Project's
incremental recurrent costs to a minimum. Secondly, is the problem of pro--
jected slow improvement in the country's balance of payments situation
1/   These include the small size of sawmills and numerous pitsawyers operat-
ing with obsolete equipment, shortage of spare parts, inadequate loggLng
and transport capacity and shortage of skilled manpower.



- 11 -
leading to persistent shortages of imported spare parts and petroleum products;
this necessitated minimizing the incremental foreign exchange burden resulting
from the Project by, as far as possible, limiting the Project requirement for
new vehicles, machinery and equipment to replacement of existing stocks,
financing all foreign exchange costs, including expenditure on fuel and
spare parts requirements throughout Project implementation, having stricter
control on vehicle procurement, improved maintenance and reducing vehicle
operations by almost 20% per annum. Thirdly, there is a need to consolidate
and strengthen the project implementation capacity established at Sao Hill
and to exercise restraint on the scale of new investments. As a result the
proposals contained in the Preparation Report were considerably scaled down to
take these considerations into account.
B.     The Project Area
3.04       The project is situated in Sao Hill within Mufindi District in
Iringa Region. It is about 40 km south of Iringa, the Regional headquarters
(Map No. IBRD 15896). The Tanzania - Zambia (Tanzam) highway traverses the
high-elevation portion of the Project area, and the Tanzania-Zambia Railway
Authority (TAZARA) railway the lower-elevation portion of the Project area. A
good gravel road connecting Mafinga(formerly John-s Corner) and Mufindi passes
through the older and some of the new plantation blocks. The existing and
proposed plantation areas on and below the Mufindi escarpment are at present
connected by a lengthy road of about 65 km. The escarpment road proposed
under the Pulpmill project to link the pulpmill with the Tanzam highway would
shorten the distance to 40 km. Apart from the rapidly growing township of
Mafinga, there are 10 wards containing 20 villages with about 30,000 households
or a total population of almost 140,000 all around the Project area. The male
population, which is the main source of labor for the Project, is estimated at
75,000, of which about 50% is estimated to be the workforce. Each village has
an area of 3,000 - 4,000 ha, which is considered to be more than enough for
agricultural and other domestic needs (including afforestation for fuelwood
production). The tea estates in the area also have enough land holdings for
both tea growing and to meet their firewood requirements. The area allocated
to the Project is approximately 94,300 ha of which 66,300 ha have been surveyed.
About 64,000 ha are considered suitable for tree planting, of which 30,000 ha.
have been planted to date.
3.05      The Project area is part of a massif, with an elevation of 1,500 m
or above, extending from the Livingstone Mountains (near Lake Nyasa) north-
eastwards through Njombe to and beyond Iringa. Most of the area covered by
plantations and the proposed high-elevation extension areas in the northeast,
lie above 1,800 m (see map). The topography of this area is mainly undulating
and rivers and streams often rise in broad, flat marshes. In the east, the
topography is generally steeper with ridges falling off gradually at first but
later quite steeply into sharp valleys. Except on steep escarpment slopes or
where soil depth is a limiting factor, topography by itself is not a serious
constraint to tree growing, though it may impose limitations on harvesting
and extraction. However, eucalypts are more demanding than pine with regard



- 12 -
to land preparation, and experience at Sao Hill has shown that they require
complete ploughing before planting. Hence where land is too steep, rocky or
otherwise unsuitable for ploughing, eucalyptus would not be planted. The
Kigogo and Mufindi East Escarpment reserves, which have been recently acquired
by the Forest Division, contain land suitable for eucalypts and would be well
situated in relation to the pulpmill once the proposed escarpment road has
been constructed.
3.06       The soils in the Project area have been formed in situ  and there-
fore reflect certain characteristics of the parent materials which are mainly
gneisses and granites. The granite soils are deep, relatively uniform, sandy
clay loams, often compacted in the top 20-30 cm where unweathered quartz
pebbles are frequently the dominant physical component. Such soils are crumb
structured, well drained and infiltrated by grass roots down to about 30 cm;
their fertility is low and they are moderately acidic. Active erosion is
hardly apparent, although extensive gully erosion has occurred in the past in
the eastern sector of the upper elevation extension area, largely due to human
settlement. Mechanical land preparation is often hindered by small termite
mounds which occur in unusual profusion in some areas and with moderate
frequency nearly everywhere else.
3.07       The climate is greatly influenced by altitude and topography.
Rainfall ranges between 812 mm and 2,009 mm; the area in the south facing
the escarpment has the highest rainfall, while rainfall decreases north-
eastwards away from the escarpment. Rainfall is seasonal and is heaviest
in November - January and March - April with a short dry spell in between of
approximately two weeks in the first half of February and a long dry spell in
May - November.  The highest wind velocities occur during May - November.
3.08       Most of the Project area is covered with short grasses among which
Loudetia simplex is often dominant above the escarpment and Hyparrhenia below
it. Couch and associated grasses characterize areas which have been farmed in
the past and require more intensive land preparation and weeding than the
former areas.  In certain parts of the Project area scattered trees or shrubs
occur. The light vegetation cover which characterizes much of the Project
area permits light land preparation, mainly strip ploughing, except in areas
intended for eucalypts which require thorough land preparation.
C.   General Description
3.09      The proposed Project would be the second phase of the Sao Hill
Forestry Project. It would provide for the further development of forest
plantations established under Phase I and planting and establishment of new
plantations, as well as for the development of infrastructure and forest
services within the Project area. It would be carried out by the Forest
Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism over five years and
would consist of the following:
(a) Further development of about 18,000 ha of Phase I forest
plantations for production of sawlogs and pulpwood;



- 13 -
(b) Establishment and development of about 10,000 ha of new
forest plantations for production of sawlogs and pulpwood;
(c) Construction of about 160 km of forestsecondary roads,
725 km of tracks, and upgrading some 120 km of secondary
forest-roads to primary forest roads; and the maintenance of
existing and new roads and tracks;
(d) Construction of 58 staff houses and other buildings and
structures and the maintenance of existing and new houses
and buildings;
(e) Strengthening of the mechanical engineering services,
financial and management information systems of the Project
and the provision of short study tours for selected Project
staff
(f) Short-term consultancies and studies to review the
Project's fire protection system; the die-back problem of
pine trees in Sao Hill; stumpage rates and pricing of
forestry products in the country; and existing and planned
programs for national village afforestation.
D. Detailed Features
Afforestation
(a) Further Development of Existing Plantations
3.10      The Project would provide for further development of about 18,000 ha
of Phase I forest plantations in Sao Hill over a five-year period. These
forest plantations consist of 16,000 ha of pine (principally P.patula) and
about 2,000 ha of eucalypts. The development of these plantations consists of
pruning, marking for thinning, measuring logs (scaling), replanting clearfelled
areas, and fire protection - all of which are necessary for the full develop-
ment of these existing forestry resources.
3.11      Pruning would be restricted to pines only, as eucalypts would only
be grown for pulpwood. Pines would be pruned at the average ages of 5,6 and 8
years. In the first pruning all trees would be pruned, while the second and
third prunings would be limited to the best trees. Approximately 34,340 ha of
Phase I plantations would be pruned, some on a repeat basis, during the
period of Project implementation with a total labor requirement of approxi-
mately 12,000 man-months.



- 14 -
3.12      Marking for Thinnings would involve identifying and marking the
trees which would be harvested. The eucalypts would be managed on a coppice
system, with clearfelling every 8-10 years and would therefore not require
thinnings other than early reduction of the number of coppice shoots. Thinning
of pine would be at 14/15 and 18/20 years and clearfelling at 25 years, but
Project management would have the discretion of postponing thinnings somewhat
if desired - e.g. for reasons of market availability. Approximately 264 ha of
Phase I plantations would be involved in the thinning program during the
Project period.
3.13      Timber Scaling determines the volume of felled timber and forms the
basis for charging stumpage fees. The requirements of the Sao Hill sawmill and
the pulpmill would determine the amount of wood 3to be felled each year.  The
former's intake of logs would be about 45,000 m  per annum while the total 3
wood intake of the pNlpmill (logs + sawmill waste) would rise from 57,000 m
in 1984 to 226,400 m in 1987 according to the proposed operating schedule for
the pulpmill. Since the pulpmill would obtain part of its raw materials from
other sources (wattle logs and sawmill waste), the round woos requirement irom
the existing forest plantations would increase from 45,000 m to 251,000 m
per annum during the Project period.
3.14      Clearfelling and Replanting would be restricted to compartments
which are 25 years or older. In order to obtain the wood requirements of the
sawmill and pulpmill, about 150 ha/year would be clearfelled in addition to
wood from thinnings. Unless more land suitable for eucalyptus can be found in
the low elevation area than is at present available, the clearfelled pine
areas would be replanted with eucalypts, which would be in short supply when
the pulpmill starts operating, especially if it will need fuelwood as well as
pulpwood, which has been suggested as a possibility. The oldest pine stands,
which are the ones first in line for clearfelling, are on sites ecologically
suited to eucalyptus, and situated in that part of Division I (map) which is
nearest to the pulpmill.
(b) Establishment and Development of New Plantations
3.15      The Project would provide for development of 10,000 ha of new
plantations over a period of five years i.e. 2000 ha per year. The new
plantation program would include surveying part of the new areas, establish-
ment of nurseries, land preparation, planting, fertilization, weeding and
research.
3.16      Surveying.  Most of the 10,000 ha to be afforested under the
second phase would be land which has already been surveyed. However, some
of the area within the low-elevation portion and which would be suitable for
eucalypts would need both topographical and soil surveying before detailed
planning can be done.
3.17      Land Preparation.  Since much of the Project area is generally
covered by grass, land clearing involves manual breaking down of small
anthills before ploughing or ripping is done. Strip ploughing would continue
to be the normal method of land preparation for pine, while land which cannot



- 15 -
be ploughed would be pitted or ripped and pitted. However, land earmarked
for eucalypts would require complete ploughing, except in case of replanting
clearfelled pine areas with eucalypts. In order to obtain the desired shatter-
ing effect, ripping would be done in the dry season when the soil is hard.
For this purpose the Project would provide for a 140 hp crawler tractor. In
order to ensure satisfactory tree growth, pits would be 30 cm in diameter by
30 cm deep within a 1 m cleared patch.
3.18      Nurseries.  Seed of P. patula and E. saligna and E. grandis would be
obtained locally. Seed for other species would be locally procured or imported.
The polythene tube method would continue to be used in the production of
seedlings but the earth ball method, which has been introduced, would be
further improved in order to avoid the Project's dependence on polythene tubes
whose supply is subject to foreign exchange availability. Seedlings would be
planted at an average density of 1370 per hectare. About 4 million seedlings
would be produced annually for new plantings of 2,000 ha/annum and for replant-
ing 150 ha/annum. Small temporary nurseries near planting sites would be
established (instead of large and permanent nurseries) in order to minimize
the need for transporting seedlings over long distances.
3.19      Planting and Weeding.  Planting would be done by hand during the
early part of the rainy season which extends from November - April and this
would permit replacement of dead plants to be done within the same season.
P. patula which has done best in the high elevation areas at Sao Hill would
continue to be the major species at that elevation while P. caribaea and
possibly P. kesiya would be planted in the lower-elevation area. However, in
order to avoid the risk associated with monoculture, some compartments in the
higher elevation area would be planted with P. taeda and P. elliottii. On
good ploughable land, particularly within short distances from the pulpmill,
E. grandis and saligna would be planted. Fertilizer (NPK) would be applied
only to eucalypts because of its significant response. The cost of applying
borate, whose deficiency is suspected to cause the dieback of occasional trees
in Sao Hill, has been provided for in the Project and would be incurred
following the recommendations of a tree physiologist and a silviculturist who
will visit Sao Hill under FAO/TCP funding in 1981. P. patula and, especially,
eucalypts are sensitive to weed competition. Except for eucalyptus areas,
where weeding would be both mechanical and manual, weeding in all other areas
would be by hand.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.20      Vehicles and equipment to be provided under the Project would include
12 motor cycles (4 additional and 8 replacements) for middle-level staff
transportation; 5 four-wheel drive vehicles (all replacements) for general
and staff transportation; 1 crawler and 1 ripper (both replacements); 3
wheel-tractors (94HP) and 2 wheel-tractors (78HP) - both replacements -; 5
harrows and 5 ploughs (both replacements); 3 additional trailers for general
transportation; 5 seven-ton trucks (2 additional and 4 replacements), 1
ten-ton truck (replacement) for general transportation; 20 bicycles for Forest
Assistants (all additional); 9 additional water storage tanks and 6 additional
water pumps for nursery work.



- 16 -
3.21      In order to avert the problem of recent shortages in spares needed
for efficient use of vehicles and equipment, the Project would finance the
provision of initial spares for new and replacement vehicles, machinery and
equipment for workshop and general plantation operations and for fire protec-
tion activities and the purchase of spare parts inventory throughout the
Project period and the purchase of 2 light pick-ups for supplies transporta-
tion, 2 four-wheel-drive vehicles for work study activities and workshop
transport needs.
Fire Protection
3.22      Fire protection of forest plantations is important because of
the real threat of fire, given the pronounced dry season and the concentration
of inflammable species in the Project area. A fire protection system has
already been built in the Project which includes firebreaks, fire towers, fire
control centers, mobile fire investigation units, fire patrols and fire
extension work. In addition, the Project would provide for the purchase of 3
four-wheel drive vehicles, construction of 5 new fire-towers and additional
firebreaks in new areas and the purchase of fire-fighting equipment to be
determined by a fire protection consultant whose employment would be financed
by FAO's Technical Cooperation Program in 1981. A total provision of Tsh 1.25
million (US 151,515) has been included for the purchase of the fire protection
equipment. Assurances were obtained that disbursement against these funds
would be made after the Consultant has drawn up detailed proposals satisfactory
to both GOT and IDA.
Research
3.23      The long-term research trials program would be continued and funds
totalling TSh 945,500 would be provided as follows: staff salaries - Tsh
373,000 (Table T-l-10), 4 wheel-drive vehicle - TSh. 147,500 (Table T-l.9),
hand tools and implements - TSh. 25,000 (Table T-1.2); fertilizers, etc. -
TSh. 200,000 (Table T-1.3); labor - TSh. 200,000 (Table T-1.3). The following
specific investigations would be carried out under the Project: Species and
provenance trials.  Pinus elliottii has performed surprisingly poorly in the
high elevation area. Further provenances would be tried. Improved strain of
P. taeda would also be tried in the same area. For the low elevation area an
attempt would be made to find a less heavily branched variety of P. kesiya, as
well as the best provenances of P. caribaea and P. oocarpa. Improved varieties
of Eucalyptus grandis would be tried at both high and low elevations.
Nutritional studies. At present NPK fertilizer is given to eucalyptus at
planting. The possibility of excluding N would be investigated. Similarly
the effect of zinc and boron applications on the growth of both pines and
eucalyptus would be assessed. Provision for laboratory services has been
included (Table T-1.13) for soil and foliar analysis.



- 17 -
Agro-forestry. The effect on costs and growth rates of growing maize and
other agricultural crops between trees during the first few years would be
investigated. Especially in the case of the new eucalyptus plantations, where
the land would be completely ploughed, it would not be difficult for the
Project to cultivate the land between the trees or to induce farmers to do so,
and this would minimize weeding costs. The possibility of grazing under the
older stands would be investigated, especially in the case of stands of
narrow-crowned species like P. elliottii in which there is a considerable
amount of grass growth. This would reduce fire hazard.
Nurseries. Soil tests, germination tests, perfection of the earthball tech-
nique, and the correct fertilizer mix and irrigation schedule would be subjects
for further investigation.
Weeding is a very labor demanding and, therefore, expensive operation.
Research would be carried out to determine areas and conditions where weeding
could be either omitted altogether, or reduced in intensity. Alternative
methods of weed control would be tested.
Civil Works
(a) Road Construction and Maintenance
3.24      About 120 km of-secondary roads within the Project area would be
upgraded to all weather primary roads capable of serving all purposes including
log transport. The construction and maintenance of other logging roads would
be the responsibility of the log consumers. Also about 160 km of secondary
roads (all-weather roads for personnel access) and 725 km of tracks would be
constructed during Project implementation. All roads would be constructed
using designs adopted in Phase I and which are satisfactory. 1/ The Project
would also provide funds for the maintenance of new and existing forest roads
and tracks. In order to facilitate the implementation of the road construction
and maintenance program, funds would be provided for the purchase of 1 con-
struction grader - 140 HP (incremental), 2 tow graders (incremental), and 1
tipper-truck (replacement).
(b) Buildings and Housing
3.25      About 58 houses for senior and junior staff would be constructed and
provision would be made for maintenance of existing and new buildings.  A
field office to serve as headquarter for the plantation division in the lower
elevation area would also be constructed under the Project.
1/   Road density:      high elevation - 15 m/ha.
(secondary roads) low elevation - 18 m/ha.
Road standards:   primary roads - 8 m wide.
secondary roads - 7 m wide.
tracks           - 4 m wide.



- 18 -
Technical Assistance
(a) Long-term Specialists
3.26      The mechanical engineering services would be strengthened by the
employment of an internationally recruited Workshop Manager, with practical
experience in the organization, management and operation of a workshop for
repair and maintenance of vehicles and agricultural machinery and equipment,
for five years. In order to strengthen the Project's financial management,
planning and cost accounting systems, the Project would finance (i) the
employment of an internationally recruited Assistant Project Manager (Finance
and Planning) for three years and who would be a person with appropriate
financial and personnel management and planning experience and qualifi-
cation; and (ii) the employment of an internationally recruited Work Study
Specialist, for a period of three years, to assist in developing improved,
cost effective silvicultural practices and field operations and train local
counterparts. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOT would
assign personnel with appropriate experience and qualifications as local
counterparts to the Assistant Project Manager, Workshop Manager and Work Study
Specialist.
(b) Short-term Consultants
3.27      The Project would also finance short-term consultancies as follows:
(i) an internationally recruited Forest Fire Protection Specialist (for two
man-months) to assist Project management to review and draw up an implementa-
tion plan of the recommendations made by the FAO/TCP fire protection specialist
(para 3.23); (ii) a three-man-month consultancy in support of Government's
proposal to carry out a comprehensive study that would form a basis for
appropriate and rational stumpage rates and pricing of forestry products in
the country; (iii) a Tree Physiologist (one man-month to accompany a supervi-
sion mission to review the implementation and effectiveness of the recommenda-
tions made by the FAO/TCP silviculturist/physiologist team on the dieback
problem in the existing Sao Hill plantations; and (iv) two internationally
recruited Village Afforestation Specialists for three man-months each who
would assist GOT to review existing programs and studies and to formulate a
National Village Afforestation Program; the specialists would be a Sociologist
and a Forestry Specialist.
3.28      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the
specialists (para 3.27) and short-term consultants (para 3.28) would be
satisfactory to IDA and be in accordance with IDA guidelines; that the work-
study specialist would be appointed by December 31, 1982 and the appointment
of the Assistant Project Manager (Finance and Planning) and the Workshop
Manager would be a condition of Project effectiveness.
(c) Training
3.29      The Project would also provide for short study tours for selected
Project staff to visit similar projects in neighboring countries to broaden
their experience.



- 19 -
E. Project Costs
3.30      Total Project costs are estimated at Tsh 123.6 million (US$15.0
million) of which Tsh 50.7 million (US$6.2 million) or 41% represents foreign
exchange costs. The Project costs do not include any local taxes and duties
since virtually all items would be exempt from import duties and the local
taxes are negligible. Details and phasing of the project costs are presented
in Annex 1, Tables T-l.l through T-1.15 and are summarized below:
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Cost
------TSh. '000------   ------US$'000    -               ------
Afforestation
Development of Existing
Plantations                         7,518      160   7,678    911        19     930       2         9
Replanting clearfelled areas         1,752      319   2,071    213        39     252      15         2
Development of New Plantations   11,223   5,969  17,192  1,360           724   2,084      35        19
Nursery Operations                   4,280   2,100   6,380    519        254     773      33         7
Fire Protection                      4,412      856   5,268    535       104     639      16         6
Sub-total                     29,185   9,404  38,589  3,538   1,140   4,678         24        43
Civil Works
Roads - construction/maintenance  1,561   2,459   4,020    189           298     487      61         4
Buildings & Structures               4,378   1,876   6,254    531        227     758      30         7
Sub-total                      5,939   4,335  10,274    720        525   1,245       42       11
Vehicles, Machinery & Equipment   1,113  11,222  12,335    135   1,360   1,495            91        14
Project Administration
Staff Salaries and Wages            11,135    --    11,135  1,350        --    1,350       -        12
HQ - General Services Cost           1,634   1,072   2,706    198        130     328      40         3
Vehicles Operating Cost              1,548   6,310   7,858    187        765     952      80         9
Sub-total                     14,317   7,382  21,699  1,735        895   2,630       34        24
Technical Assistance & Training
Technical Assistance                  --      6,271   6,271   --         760      760    100         7
Staff Study Tours                     --        247     247   --          30       30    100         1
Sub-total                       _       6,518   6,518   --         790      790    100          8
Total Base Cost                     50,554  38,449  89,415  6,128   4,710  10,838         43       100
Contingencies - Physical             3,896   3,187   7,083    472        386      858     45         8
- Price             18,460   8,687  27,147  2,237   1,053   3,290          32        31
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  72,910  50,735 123,645  8,837   6,150  14,987         41       139



- 20 -
3.31      Project costs were estimated at prices as of December 1981.  A
physical contingency of 10% was included on all Project costs except staff
salaries, technical assistance and study tours. Price contingencies were
calculated on a cumulative basis: for local costs the rates were 14% for
1982, 13% for 1983, and 12% thereafter, while for foreign exchange costs the
rates were 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983 and after. Price contingencies total
31% of Project baseline costs.
3.32      Provision has been made for financing retroactively Project expendi-
ture between January 1st and credit signing date. Such expenditure is esti-
mated at Tsh 6.6 million (US$800,000) (Annex 1, Table T-1.15).
3.33      Project costs provide for a total of 132 man-months of long-term
consultancies (para 3.27) at an estimated total cost of TSh. 5.5 million
(US$666,666). This includes cost of salaries, fees, travel and subsistence.
The average cost per man-month is TSh. 41,666 (US$5050). Provision is also
made for a total of 12 man-months of short-term consultancies (para 3.28) at
an estimated total cost of TSh. 594,000 (US$72,000). The average cost per
man-month is TSh. 49,500 (US$6,000). The Project would also provide for the
expenditure on salaries and wages of existing and incremental local staff of
about Tsh 11.1 million (US$1.3 million) including contingencies. IDA disburse-
ment against these local salary and wages expenditures would be on a declLning
basis (para 4.06e).
F. Financing
3.34      The Project costs would be financed as follows:
Tsh                 US$
(million)           (million)        %
IDA                          99.0               12.0           80
GOT                          24.6                3.0           20
Total                     123.6                15.0          100
3.35      The proposed credit equivalent to US$12.0 million to GOT would be
on standard IDA terms. The credit would finance 80% of total Project costs,
including 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$6.2 million) and 66% of local
costs (US$5.8 million). GOT would finance the remaining US$3.n million.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The Forest Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism would be responsible for the implementation of the Project. Project
activities would be carried out by the Project Manager who would be directly
responsible to the Director of Forests. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the position of Project Manager would be kept filled at all
times with a person whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
IDA.
4.02      The Project organization would be as shown in Chart C-1, and the
anticipated scheduling of implementation of the various components is shown in
Chart C-2. The Project Manager would be assisted by two Assistant Project
Managers, one responsible for plantation operations and the other for finance
and planning. The Assistant Project Manager (Operations) (APMO) would be
responsible for forest plantation management, survey and work plan, all civil
works, research and trial activities under the Project. The forest plantations
would be divided into three Divisions. Three Divisional Plantation Officers
(DPO), each responsible for a Division consisting of a number of plantation
blocks, would assist the APMO in the implementation of the afforestAtion and
fire protection programs of the Project. In each Division, Forest Officers
(FO) and Assistant Forest Officers (AFO), who would be in charge of afforesta-
tion and fire protection activities at plantation or section level, would be
responsible to the DPO. The FO and AFO would be responsible for implementing
agreed activity targets in their respective sections or units and they would
be assisted by Forest Assistants (FA) who would supervise the physical implemen-
tation of such activities. Six additional FA's would be posted to the Project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOT would appoint and
assign six FA's with appropriate experience to the Project by December 31,
1982. The APMO were obtained by a Civil Engineer in implementing the civil
works program under the Project. A reasonably good capacity, in terms of
staff and equipment, exists at the Project to implement the civil works
program. A Senior Forest Officer in charge of research activities in the
Project would assist the APMO. A Forest Officer responsible to the APMO,
would be in charge of the Survey and Work Plan Section. This section would
utilize the recent forestry inventory data to prepare a five-year Working
(Management) Plan with detailed prescriptions on a compartment basis for
pruning, thinning, clearfelling, replanting and other operations. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that such a Working Plan would be prepared
by July 31, 1983 and that Project management would implement the Plan thereafter,
taking into account IDA's comments and that subsequent plantation inventories
would be undertaken and work plans prepared every five years.
4.03      The Assistant Project Manager (Finance and Planning) (APMFP)
would assist the Project Manager in all matters relating to support services
consisting of finance, accounts, administration, work study and costing,
and the workshop. Since it has not been possible for the Project to recruit
locally such a person in the past, the APMFP would be internationally-recruited



- 22 -
(para 3.26). The APMFP would be assisted by a Senior Accountant who would be
in charge of the Accounts and Finance Section. Procurement and supplies
matters would be the responsibility of two procurement and supplies officers,
one at the Project head office and another stationed in Dar-es-Salaam, who
would report to the APMFP, through the Senior Accountant. This would facilitate
expeditious procurement and clearing of imported goods for the Project, a
problem which beset the first phase of the Project. The Administration
Section would be headed by an Office Supervisor who would assist the APMFP in
matters relating to personnel administration and staff welfare. In order to
set up an effective costing system for the Project, a Work Study and Costing
Section would be established and headed by an internationally-recruited Work
Study Officer (para 3.26). A Forest Officer, Assistant Forest Officer and a
local Cost Accountant would assist the Work Study Officer. An internationally-
recruited Workshop Manager (para 3.26) would assist the APMFP in setting
up and supervising a mechanical workshop for servicing and repairing all
Project vehicles, machinery and equipment.
B. Procurement
4.04      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with Bank/
IDA guidelines. Specifically:
(a) orders for vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment and
initial spare parts (US$1.7 million - including price con-
tingencies) would be bulked as far as practicable. Orders of
US$100,000 and above would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) from suppliers who maintain or
agree to maintain in Tanzania adequate after sales service
and inventory of spare parts;
(b) orders for vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment
below US$100,000 would be procured in accordance with
existing local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which
are satisfactory. These orders would not, however, exceed
US$300,000 in aggregate;
(c) civil works (US$1.2 million) would be undertaken in accord-
ance with Government standards and designs which are accept-
able to IDA. As these works would be small (individual
items would not exceed $100,000) and at geographically
dispersed locations, they would not attract ICB and LCB and
since the Forest Division has the capacity to implement such a
program with reasonable efficiency, construction would
be by force account;
(d) the selection and employment of consultants (US$0.7 million)
would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.



- 23 -
4.05      Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in
excess of US$150,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before bid
invitations are issued. Bid evaluations and recommendations for award
would be submitted to IDA for comments before contracts are awarded. In
the evaluation of ICB bids for purchase of vehicles, tractors, machinery
and equipment, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or
the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined above would be
followed.
C. Disbursements
4.06      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign and 75% of local cost for vehicles,
machinery, equipment and spare parts (US$1.7 million);
(b) 75% of total cost of construction of housing, buildings
and structures and construction and maintenance of roads
and tracks (US$1.3 million);
(c) 100% of total cost of technical assistance and staff study
tours (US$0.9 million);
(d) 100% of foreign cost and 75% of local costs of afforestation,
(US$5.5 million);
(e) salaries and wages of local Project staff with disbursements
at 75% up to US$0.4 million; 60% up to an aggregate of
US$0.6 million; and 40% up to a total of US$0.8 million;
(f) 100% of foreign cost and 75% of local costs of headquarter
general services and vehicle operation (US$1.3 million);
(g) An unallocated amount of US$0.5 million representing physical
contingencies on items (a) to (d) and (f), and transferable
to them as required.
4.07      All disbursements would be fully documented except for expenditures
by force account under (b), and local expenditures under (d), (e), and (f)
which would be on the basis of Statement of Expenditure signed by the Project
Manager and the Ministry of Finance. However, supporting documents in
respect of Statement of Expenditure would be retained by the project for
inspection by IDA supervision mission.



- 24 -
4.08      A schedule showing the estimated pattern of credit disbursement
is at Annex 3, Table T-3.1. This schedule is based on the historical dis-
bursement profile of the Phase One Project which was faster but considered
more appropriate than the available regional or country-wide profiles.
D. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
4.09      An improved system for financial management and planning, internal
controls and cost accounting would be implemented. The provision for strengthen-
ing the finance and planning section in the Project organization would
assist in meeting this requirement (para 3.26). Separate records relating to
all expenditures under the credit, would be kept in accordance with acceptable
accounting practices, and reflecting the complete operations and financial
position of the project. All accounts relating to the Project, including
Statement of Expenditures, would continue to be audited annually by the
Government Auditor General whose services have been satisfactory to the Bank
under Phase I. The audited accounts together with the auditor-s report would
be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial year.
Detailed annual and quarterly reports covering the physical implementation of
the Project and the funds received and expended, together with the expenditure
budget for the ensuing quarter, would be-prepared and submitted by the Forest
Division to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism and to IDA. Findings
of the research program (para 3.23) would also be included in the Project
Annual Report. In addition, appropriate records with regard to the following
would be maintained on a continuous basis: (a) actual total and unit costs
covering various afforestation activities, viz: plantation eatablishment and
maintenance, replanting, land preparation, weeding, pruning, production of
seedlings etc.; (b) historical statistical data relating to the operating
costs of the different types of vehicles, tractors, machinery and equipment;
and (c) unit costs of construction relating to staff houses, buildings and
structures. Within six months of the completion of disbursements, GOT would
prepare and submit to IDA a Completion Report. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the accounting, auditing and reporting procedures
would be followed.
E. Environnmental Impact
4.10      The forest plantations within the Project area would continue to
provide protection to minor catchment areas and the maintenance of soil cover
on vulnerable sites within the Project area. By providing softwood to meet
the national demand, the Project would reduce pressure on the environmentally
important indigenous forests. The Project would have no particular adverse
effects on the environment.



- 25 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
Yields
5.01      The 1980 inventory of Sao Hill plantations indicated  that old
stands of P. patula had a mean annual increment (MAI) of 20 m /ha (under
bark). It is likely that actual yields from pines are much lower than this
figure because the utilizable volume is much lower and older stands are
generally better than average within the Project area and other conifers are
slower growers than P. patula in Sao Hill.  Thus t e overall average yield
from pine could realistically be estimated at 15 m /ha per year. On this basis
the expected distribution of average yield over the rotation and different
products are as follows:
Age:        Thin to                 Yields m /ha
Years        (stems/ha)          Pulpwood 1/   Sawlogs 2/   Total
10            800                   40            --           40
14/15           500                  30            30           60
18/20          300                   25            50           75
25                                  50           150          200
Total           ---                 145           230          375
1/   Logs below 25 cm diameter.
2/   Logs above 25 cm diameter.
5.02      Eucalyptus plantations at Sao Hill are still too young to give
a reliable estimate of MAI, but on the basis of non-Project plantations
in the area and of research exyerimental plots, the average yield for
eucalyptus is estimated at 18 m /ha/year, provided the standard practice
developed by the Project is followed. Eucalyptus would be clear-felled
every 8 years and then they would be left to regenerate from coppice.    3
Thus the average yield at the age of clearfelling would be 8 x 18 = 144 m /ha.
The eucalyptus plantation life cycle would be 32 years, including one seedling
crop and three coppice rotations of 8 years each.
Output
5.03      On the basis of an MAI of 15 m /ha for pine and 18 m /ha for
eucalyptus and the assumed plantation cycle for each species, the proposed
plantations under the Project consisting of 8,000 ha of pine, and 2,000 ha of
eucalyptus, and 760 ha of replanting of clearfelled pine with eucalyptus,
production would be as summarized below:



- 26 -
----------000--    m3 ------------------
Pine Plantations    Eucalyptus Plantations
Crop           Pulpwood   Sawlogs    Pulpwood       Sawlogs
Seedling Crop                      ---        ---         397          ---
lst Coppice or thinning            320        ---         397          ---
2nd Coppice or thinning            240        240         397          ---
3rd Coppice or thinning            200        400         397          ---
Final Crop                         400      1,200         ---
Total Production                 1,160      1,840       1,588
5.04      Since the existing pine plantations at Sao Hill are adequate
to meet the requirements of both the sawmill and pulpmill at their presently
planned capacities, the pine pruning program in existing plantations and all
the pine sawlogs production under the second phase would require expansion in
the sawmill. Under its medium and long-term development program, TWICO plans
to expand the Sao Hill sawmill by adding another production line in the late
1980's and to establish another sawmill to meet the expected growth in domestic
demand for sawn timber in the 1990s. Similarly, there is a possibility
that the pulpmill might increase its capacity to satisfy the growing domestic
demand for paper and paper products and improve its profitability through
an increased scale of operation.
5.05      Eucalyptus would be exclusively used as pulpwood, while pine would
constitute a raw material for both the sawmill and pulpwood. Pine logs below
25 cm diameter would go to the pulpmill while bigger logs would be for the
sawmill.  Except for eucalyptus and possibly for some stunted pine stands,
integrated harvesting of pine plantations would be practiced throughout the
Project area. This would mean that each compartment of pine would yield both
sawlogs and pulpwood and separate working circles would not be set aside for
each product.
5.06      At present the Sao Hill sawmill is the only consumer of wood from
the Project area and it manages its own harvesting and logging on the basis of
working circles. However, both GOT and Project management recognize the
need for rational management and harvesting of the Project's forest resources
on an integrated basis, particularly once the pulpmill becomes operational.
For this purpose GOT commissioned a study by consultants in 1980 which has
identified a number of possible institutional arrangements for managing and
harvesting the Project's output on an integrated basis. Although GOT has not
yet made any decision, it is expected that a rational decision would be made
in line with the sound advice it is receiving from the consultants. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that GOT would consult IDA before
any institutional arrangement for integrated management and harvesting of the
forest resources in Sao Hill is decided upon and that GOT would have estab-
lished such institutional arrangement before June 30, 1983.



- 27 -
B. Markets
5.07      The major consumers of the Project's output of round logs would
be the existing Sao Hill sawmill and the Pulp and Paper Mill currently being
constructed at Mufindi. Their respeciive installed capacities, in termi of
annual log intakes, would be 45,000 m (r) for the sawmill and 283,000 m (r)
for the pulpmill. The sawmill has been operating since 1976 and reached its
rated capacity (single shift) in 1981. It is considered to be the most
efficient mill of all TWICO sawmills and has been operated profitably. The
pulpmill is scheduled for commissioning in 1984 and is expected to reach its
full rated capacity in 1989. Prospects for its expansion beyond its initial
capacity would be contingent upon future growth in markets for its products
and its financial performance. On the other hand, TWICO plans to expand its
sawmilling capacity in Sao Hill in the late 1980's and early 1990s to cater
for the expected growth in domestic demand for sawn timber and to utilize the
planned increase in softwood production in Sao Hill area.
Sawn Timber
5.08      The demand for sawn timber is derived from such end-uses as furniture
and joinery, which together account for about two-thirds of the consumption
(Annex 4, Table T-4.4). Other end-uses for sawnwood in Tanzania are roof
structure, internal partitions, concrete formwork, vehicle bodies, boats,
wooden cases and pallets. Consumption of sawn timber is almost evenly divided
between softwoods, fine hardwoods and utility hardwoods (Annex 4, Table
T-4.4); and the ultimate application of the various species is basically
determined by the end-use properties. Fine hardwoods (e.g. mahogany, mvule,
etc.) are used mostly for furniture, joinery, panelling and other decorative
purposes. Muhuhu and panga-panga are used for parquet flooring and are mostly
exported. At present, a large proportion of fine hardwoods is still being
used for utility purposes, as other species are not always available. Utility
hardwoods (e.g. Mutundu, mtambara, etc) are used for light consruction work,
joinery, sleepers, bridges, vehicles, etc; where natural appearance is not so
important. Softwoods are particularly suitable for general building work
(roof structures, doors, windows, door frames and ceilings) and internal
joinery. They are also used for shuttering, boxes and other packaging pur-
poses. The pattern of sawn timber consumption in the country is given in
Annex 4, Table T-4.4. The projections of demand for sawn timber in Annex 4,
Table T-4.2 assume that this consumption pattern would be maintained and that
there would be no substitution for wood by non-woodbased products in the major
end-uses.
5.09      The supply/demand data  for Tanzania indicate that demand for sawlogs
exceeded supply by about 29,000 m (r) during 1978-80 and this is consistent
with the shortages of sawn timber experienced during this period and consequent
increases (in real terms) in timber prices. In addition, the shortage of
sawlogs was exacerbated by structural bottlenecks in the sawmilling industry,
including inadequate logging capacity. Detailed projections of supply and
demand for sawlogs are presented in Annex 4, Table T-4.3. These projections



- 28 -
incorporate the assumptions contained in the latest Country Economic Memoraindum
relating to population growth and per capita income growth as specified on the
table. They are also based on the assumption that the income elasticity of
demand is 1, a statistic estimated by FAO in 1971 but which cannot be revised
due to lack of more recent and reliable data. Since consumption of sawn
timber and panels has been affected by recent structural (e.g. nationalization
of large sawnmills in 1976) and operational constraints (lack of spare parts,
inadequate operating expenditure, etc), and general economic problems in the
country in the late 1970's, average demani for 1978-80 was normalized to reflect
the sawlog consumption level of 380,000 m in 1973 which was free of these
distortions.  On the basis of3this, total demand for sawlogs is projec5ed to
increase from about 480,000 m (r) during 1978-80 to about 1,904,000 m (r) in
year 2010, or an average annual increase of 4.7%. On the other hand, esti-
mates of the potential supply of sa'logs (both softwoods and hardwsods)
indicate an increase from 451,000 m  Sr) in 1978-80 to 1,572,000 m  (r)
in year 2005, of which only 400,000 m  (r) would be hardwoods.  After the
year 2005 supply of sawlogs is estimated to decline to only 940,000 m in year
2010 as a result of clear-fellings of softwood plantations established in the
early 1980's. Much of the expected increase in demand for timber would be met
from expansions in softwood-plantations, which would have to grow at a cumula-
tive rate of about 1.4% p.a.
5.10      Thus the present and projected suppiy/demand situation reveals
that the appare3t general deficit of 29,000 m (r) in 1978-80 would rise to
about 964,000 m (r) by year 2010, implying that shortages of timber in the
country would increasingly become acute unless substantial imports were
envisaged or the area under softwood plantations were significantly increased
in the late 1980's. While the former would be constrained by the balance of
payments situation, the latter would be contingent upon the availability of
suitable land in ecologically suitable areas and by the country's economic and
financial prospects in the short and medium-term. In order to eliminate the
projected supply deficits, expansions in the supply of softwoods would have to
be at a rate of about 5% per annum between 1985 and 1995.
5.11      On the basis of the supply/demand estimates, it is very unlikely
that Tanzania would have some surplus timber (except high quality hardwoods)
for export.  However, in the very unlikely event that the domestic market
could not absorb the production from the Project, exports could be directed to
the growing markets in the Middle East and countries like Somalia and Ethiopia.
The potential for exports to these markets would depend on Tanzania's ability
to produce adequate quality of sawn timber at competitive prices. The pruning
and thinning regimes proposed for Sao Hill would result in high quality
sawlogs, while the relatively low cost of producing sawlogs in Sao Hill would
significantly contribute to the price competitiveness of the Project timber.
A comparison between the Project's theoretical stumpage rates for pine and
export parity prices of standing timber indicate that the Project-s timber
would be highly competitive in international markets (Appendix 2, Table
T-2.9).



- 29 -
Paper and Paperboards
5.12      The domestic demand for paper and paperboards, according to latest
and most conservative estimates 1/, was about 50,000 tons in 1980 and is
projected to reach 130,000 tons in year 2000. 2/ Current domestic production
is negligible and the bulk of the domestic demand is met by imports which in
recent years have been drastically affected by shortage of foreign exchange.
The Mufindi Pulp and Paper Mill would have a processing capacity of 60,000 TPA
at full capacity and this would be absorbed entirely by the domestic market.
Panel Products
5.13      Panel products consist of plywood, particle board and fibreboard and
their future demand would be influenced by a number of factors, including
economic development, population growth, availability of supplies, trends in
primary end-use industries (i.e. building, furniture, joinery, and packaging)
and the rate of urbanization. The consumption of panels in 1973 was used as
the base level for demand projections. Their close substitutability permitted
the calculation of the total demand, after which its roundwood equivalent was
calculated and added to the total forecasts for sawn timber. The domestic
demand for wood panel products is expected to remain quite strong. Demand
for plywood, particle board and 3fibreboard would rise3 in terms of roundwood
equivalent, from about 35,000 m in 1980 to 197,000 m in year 2000, represent-
ing a 9% annual growth rate. Much of this growth would be accounted for by
the construction industry and the backlog of unsatisfied demand at the moment.
The demand for plywood and particle board would grow faster than that of other
panels, largely because of their versatile end-use. However, the supply of
panels would depend on installed capacity and its utilization. The supply of
logs for the panel products industry is included in tha figures for supply of
sawlogs (para 5.09).
C. Prices
5.14      Permits are required for cutting of wood in forest reserves and
protected catchment areas and in forest resources on public lands for commer-
cial purpose and fees are charged. Stumpage fees vary with species and
the recently revised 3/ fees for softwood average Tsh 90/m . However, since
1/   Jaakko Poyry, Wood Industries Development Program in Tanzania-Long-Term
Development Plan, 1979.
2/   The Muf-ndi Pulp and Paper Appraisal mission estimate is 162,300 tons in
year 2000.
3              3
3/   Stumpage fees were revised from an average of Tsh 49/m , to Tsh 90/m
with effect from July 1, 1981.



- 30 -
the cost of production in most of the existing plantations is not known, GOT
is not certain whether the revised stumpage fees appropriately reflect the
full cost of production. GOT therefore intends to commission a study under
the Project (para 3.27) which would review and determine the cost of production
in existing plantations with a view to setting up appropriate stumpage rates.
Since stumpage rates would play a critical role in the profitability of the
consumers of softwood in the country, the proposed review would also assess
the impact of increased stumpage rates on the major users of wood. The
principal objectives of the study would be to ensure (i) financial viability
at all levels of the industry is attainable, (ii) future stumpage rates
reflect variations in production costs as well as transport costs, and (iii)
adjustments in price levels are fully reflected at all levels of the industry.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) GOT would complete the
study on stumpage rates before June 30, 1983; (ii) GOT would take prompt
measures as agreed with the Association based on the findings of the study;
(iii) the selection, experience, qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants be in accordance to Bank/IDA guidelines. It is
understood that after the findings and recommendations of the stumpage study
have become available, GOT and IDA would consult annually on the general
pricing policy affecting the forestry sub-sector having regard to economic
considerations and the impact a price increase would have on the major
users of industrial wood.
5.15      The existing price structure for sawlogs and pulpwood for Sao Hill
plantations are presented in Annex 2, Tables T-2.7(a) and T-2.7(b) and
indicate that industry profit margins (largely covering marketing agencies)
are substantial, ranging from 17% of wholesale price for sawn timber to
10% of ex-mill sales price for pulp. These margins are largely due to the
low stumpage rates currently being charged.
5.16      Based on the Project's production targets and using a discounting
rate of 12% (assumed to equal the opportunity cost of capital in Tanzania),
the average stumpage prices for both pine and eucalyptus which would ensure
full recovery of the costs of production by the time these resources are
harvested would be as follows (Annex 2, Tables 2.1 and 2.2).:
Pine sawlogs             Tsh 157.20 (US$19.05) per m3
Pine pulpwood            Tsh  55.00 (US$ 6.67) per m3
Eucalyptus               Tsh  55.65 (US$ 6.75) per m
These figures indicate that present stumpage rates for Sao Hill wood are too
low and that there is need to revise them upward. As indicated (para 5.15)
such full cost recovery could be achieved by reducing profit margins to
marketing agencies without jeopardizing the industry as a whole. At present,
the high profit margins upstream are due to a failure by the stumpage rate
policy to fully reflect the cost of producing wood in plantations in Sao Hill.
An assumption underlying this methodology of calculating stumpage rates is
that producers of sawlogs and pulpwood (i.e. the Project) would adopt marginal
cost pricing policy. This means, wood as an asset would be valued at its



- 31 -
its replacement cost rather than at its historical cost of production. This
would suggest that the stumpage rate study under the Project (para 3.27) would
have to take marginal cost pricing for both sawlogs and pulpwood as its
starting point.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
6.01      The principal benefit from the Project would be the production of
wood to meet the increasing domestic demand for sawn timber, panels and paper
and paper products. Supply and demand projections for these products indicate
that there would be considerable domestic supply deficits in the near future
and that these would increasingly become significant in the long-run. Con-
sequently, all Project's output of sawlogs and pulpwood would be geared to
import substitution, and the Project-s output has therefore been valued at its
import parity prices. Since the forest resource in the Project area would be
managed on an integrated basis (para 5.05), no separate calculations for
pulpwood and sawlog plantations were made.
6.02      Both financial and economic returns have been calculated for a
period of 36 years on the basis of (a) incremental investments for Phase II
coasisting of 10,760 ha of new plantations and replantings and (b) the overall
program which consists of investments for further development of the 18,000 ha
of plantations established under Phase I plus the incremental investments
under Phase II. The latter evaluation is necessary because Phase II is a mere
continuation of the long-term afforestation program. The incremental evaluation
excludes all costs and benefits incurred under and prior to Phase I and the
subsequent development costs associated with Phase I plantations. However,
costs and benefits of replanting under Phase II have been included in the
incremental evaluation of the Project. Both the incremental and overall
Project analyses assume that the investments in the pulp and paper mill and
sawmill would not be sunk costs and this is reflected in the financial and
economic values of both the sawlogs and pulpwood.
B. Financial Returns
6.03       Financial returns have been calculated for both Phase II incre-
mental investments and the afforestation program in Sao Hill. The calculations
for both are based on individual hectare models for pine and 3eucalyptus which
assume 1381 prices. The assumed stumpage rates are Tsh 90/m for pine sawlogs,
Tsh 32/m for both pine and eucalyptus pulpwood. These are the prevailing
stumpage rates and valid country-wide. On the basis of these assumptions, the
financial rates of return are 7% for Phase II incremental investments and 5%
for the overall afforestation program in Sao Hill. The relatively high
financial rate of return on Phase II incremental investments indicates that



- 32 -
projects which aim at utilizing stocks of capital and labor are likely to be
financially sound.
Sensitivity Tests
6.04      Sensitivity tests of the financial returns were made to consider
the change ii wood prices to reflect the estimated stumpage fees of
Tsh 157.20/m (r) for sawlogs and Tsh 55.65/m (r) for pulpwood (para 5.16).
The results were as follows:
At                  At
Current Stumpage       Estimated Cost
Rates            Stumpage Rates
Phase Two
Incremenal
Investments                             7.3                   12.6
Overall Project                         4.6                    8.0
6.05      It is evident from the above analysis that the prevailing stumpage
rates would result in low returns to public investments in the establishment
of forestry plantations.
C. Economic Returns
6.06      iiie bpecific assumptions used in the calculation of economic
rates of return are as follows:
(a)  the cost of unskilled labor was valued at 70% of the official
wage rate to reflect the increasing employment opportunities
in the Project area (as a result of the planned establishment
of the pulpmill at Mufindi and the pyrethrum processing plant
at Mafinga in addition to tea and farming).
(b)  local costs were converted to border prices by the use of a
standard conversion factor of 0.55 which reflects the shadow
exchange rate of the shilling (Tsh 15 = US$1.0);
(c)  c.i.f. Dar - es - Salaam prices were used to value Project-s
imported inputs;
(d)  although much of the land earmarked for the Project is
currently not used (zero opportunity cost), a nominal value
of Tsh 50/ha has been included to reflect its future opportunity
cost, given the long-term nature of the Project;
(e)  70% of capital costs for new vehicles, machinery, equipment
and spare parts was allocated to Phase II plantations and
30% to Phase I plantations; while 60% of capital costs for



- 33 -
administration, housing and building and fire protection
were apportioned to Phase I and the rest 40% to Phase II;
(f)  Project's3output was valued at imporS parity prices of
Tsh 423/m  for sawlogs and Tsh 159/m  for pulpwood; these
prices were assumed constant throughout the Project period
(Annex 2, Table T-2.8).
6.07      On the basis of the above assumptions the internal economic rate
of return for Phase II incremental investments was estimated at 30% (Annex 2,
Table T-2.3), while that for the overall afforestation program was 35% (Annex 2,
Table T-2.5). These estimates do not include the benefits of reducing deple-
tion of indigenous forests and other non-quantifiable, environmental benefits
which the Project would have.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.08      Assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 12% per annum, about
509% increase in costs, or almost 84% reduction in wood yields would be
required to render the afforestation program under Phase II unacceptable;
while a 561% increase in costs or a 85% decline in yields would lead to a
rejection of the overall afforestation program in Sao Hill. Both Phase II
and the overall program would therefore be least sensitive to cost increases
or yield reductions. Delayed implementation of the Project by two years
would reduce the internal economic rate of return to about 25%.
Project Risks
6.09      The major risk relates to the operations of the pulpmill.  Since
the pulpmill would constitute the major consumer of the Project's output, its
failure to start-up on schedule or operate at full capacity would lead to
considerable waste of forestry resources produced from early thinnings. It
would, therefore, reduce the Project's benefits and it would also lead to
distortions in the thinning regimes recommended under the Project and this
would have some, though not serious, effects on the quality of sawlogs produced.
Without the pulpmill demand, the economic rate of return of Phase II and the
overall afforestation program would be reduced to 25% and 29% respectively;
and these would still be acceptable.
6.10      Another risk .for the Project would be, in view of the current
economic crisis in the country, the failure or delay by TWICO (which is
dependent on Government funding for its major investments) to implement the
planned expansion in sawmilling facilities to absorb the sawlog output from
Phase II to meet projected growth in domestic demand for sawn timber. However,
given the projected acute shortages of sawn timber in the country and the
bleak prospects for timber imports as a result of foreign exchange constraint,
TWICO and GOT have formulated, with Scandinavian technical assistance,
a sound long-term investment program in the country's wood processing industry
which includes expansion of sawnilling capacity in Sao Hill in the late 1980's
and early 1990's. As is the case for similar projects in Tanzania today,
another risk is the problem of diesel fuel supply to the Project which



- 34 -
has been recently reduced by nearly 50%. Further reduction of diesel supplies
would paralyze the Project-s afforestation and roads programs. However, since
the Project gets its diesel supplies direct from an oil company and has
adequate storage capacity, it is better equipped to cope with the fluctuations
in the national supply of diesel fuel. The Project has been designed, as far
possible, to minimize the use of diesel fuel by establishing nurseries near to
planting sites (para 3.18); limiting the Project requirement for new vehicles
and equipment largely to replacement of existing stocks (para 3.20); and
reducing vehicle use by almost 20% p.a. (para 3.03).
Employment Benefits
6.11      During Project implementation period (1982/83-1986/87) an annual
total of nearly 450,000 mandays of unskilled labor would be required for
nursery and field operations for establishing new plantations and maintenance
of existing plantations. Nearly 80% of the total labor requirement would be
for the establishment of new plantations. The labor would come from villages
within or neighboring the Project area and the townships of Mafinga and
Mufindi. No major problems in the labor supply are foreseen since villagers
in Sao Hill area have generally demonstrated their desire to work for paid.
jobs. Moreover, an analysis of the labor input in the Project area (Annex 5,
Table T-5.1) indicates that the Project would not face labor supply problems
during the critical months of planting (November-April). Surplus family labor
would be available to the Project throughout the year except in July and August
when it is virtually fully utilized. The Project's current wage rate of Tsh 25
per day for unskilled labor is about 15% above the wage paid by the competitors
(tea estates, Southern Paper Mills, etc.) in the area. The Project would thus
provide a source of income, albeit temporary for the majority, to th- rural
population in addition to their farm incomes. It would also provide permanent
employment for over 200 skilled persons. Equally important would be the
Project's indirect impact on employment in related activities such as logging,
transportation and wood processing.
Government Project Cash Flow
6.12      Assuming that the stumpage3rates charged foS sawlogs would be
increased from the existing Tsh 90/mi  to Tsh 157.20/m , the Government's
incremental cash flow would be as presented in Annex 2, Table T-2.6. During
the first two years of Project implementation the negative net cash flows
amounting to Tsh 1.8 million would represent GOT's net contribution to Project
costs.  Without the Project Government contribution, largely in the form of
long-term recurrent commitments for further development of existing plantations
and debt servicing, would be substantial during the period 1982-87. Given the
current financial (budgetary) crisis in the country, it is doubtful whether
GOT would be able to meet such substantial amounts of recurrent expenditure.
With the Project, Government Project cash flows would generally remain positive
from the second year onwards due to (i) IDA contributions in the initial five
years of Project implementation and (ii) increased sales revenue from wood



- 35 -
output of both Phase I and II after 1988. On the other hand, Government
Project cash flows would fluctuate from negative to positive every now and
then if Phase II were not implemented. The Project would thus, generate
substantial cash surplus from net operating revenues of the Sao Hill plantations,
and most of this cash would flow into the national Treasury. Since, however,
these cash flows are based on stumpage rates which are about 75% above existing
rates, the need to revise the latter upwards in order to generate cash surplus
for the national budget is obvious (para 5.14). Project revenues would
adequately cover Bank Group debt servicing.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) the Government would assign personnel with appropriate
qualifications and experience as local counterpart staff for
the internationally recruited Assistant Project Manager
(Finance and Planning) Workshop Manager, and Work Study
Specialist (para 3.27);
(b) the Work-Study specialist would be appointed by December 31,
1982; the selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the internationally recruited
specialists and consultants would be satisfactory to IDA and
be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines (para 3.29);
(c) the Govenrment would keep the position of Project Manager
filled at all times with a person whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to IDA (para 4.01);
(d) the Government would appoint and assign six Forest Assistants
with appropriate experience to the Project by December 31, 1982
(para 4.02);
(e) a 5-year Working Plan for the Project based on the plantation
inventory would be prepared by July 31, 1983, and that
Project management would implement such a Plan thereafter
after taking into account IDA's comments; that subsequent
plantation inventories and work plans would be done every
five years (para 4.02);
(f) project accounts would continue to be audited by the Govern-
ment Auditor-General and that the accounting, auditing and
reporting procedures including the preparation of a Completion
Report within six months of completion of disbursements,
would be followed as outlined (para 4.09);



- 36 -
(g) the Government would consult the Association before any
institutional arrangement for integrated management and
harvesting of the forest resources in Sao Hill is decided
upon and such an institutional arrangement would have been
established before June 30, 1983 (para 5.06);
(h) the Government would complete a study on stumpage rates
before June 30, 1983; the terms of reference for the study
would be satisfactory to IDA; the Government would take
prompt measures as agreed with the Association based on the
findings of the study (para 5.14)
7.02      It would be a condition for disbursement against funds for the
fire-fighting equipment that detailed proposals satisfactory to both the
Government and the Association have been prepared by the FAO/TCP fire protec-
tion specialist (para 3.22);
7.03      The recruitment and employment of the Assistant Project Manager
(Finance and Planning) and the Workshop Manager would be a condition of Project
effectiveness (para 3.28).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$12.0 million.



TANZANIA                                                                               ANNEX 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                                            Table T - 1.1
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
---(T.Sh. '000)---
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Total       x of Total       Foreign Exchange   Foreign Exchange    Local
1982/83      1983/84      1984/85       1985/86      1986/87                   Base Cost                X                  Total            Cost
Afforestation
Development of Existing Plantations          92.8        526.0      1,825.0       2,649.8      2,585.2        7,678.5          09                  02                   160.0         7,518.8
Development of New Plantations 1/         7,851.6      2,335.0       2,335.0      2,335.0      2,335.0       17,191.6           19                 35                 5,968.8        11,222.8
Replanting clear-felled areas               489.3        410.4         390.4        390.4        390.4        2,070.9          02                  15                   318.7         1,752.2
Nursery Operations                        1,276.1      1,276.1      1,276.1       1,276.1      1,276.1       6,380.5           07                 33                  2,100.3        4,280.2
Fire Protection                             850.9      1,036.6      1,081.8       1,126.8      1,172.2        5,268.3          06                  16                   856.0         4,412.3
Subtotal                          10,560.7       5,584.1      6,908.3      7,778.1       7,758.9      38,589.8           43                 24                 9,403.8        29,186.3
Civil Works
Roads - construction/maintenance            796.5        812.7         810.9        791.8        808.0        4,019.9          04                  61                 2,458.9         1,561.0
Buildings and structures                  1,761.9      1,880.1         956.8        956.8        698.3        6,253.9          07                  30                 1,876.1         4,377.8
Subtotal                           2,558.4       2,692.8      1,767.7      1,748.6       1,506.3      10,273.8           11                 42                 4,335.0         5,938.8
Vehicles, Machinery and Equipment         7,335.8      4,916.8          82.8          -            -         12,335.4           14                 91                11,222.1         1,113.3        W
Project Administration
Staff Salaries and Wages                  2,226.9      2,226.9       2,226.9      2,226.9      2,226.9       11,134.5           12                  -                     -          11,134.5
Headquarter - General Services Cost         612.3        528.6         546.1        455.0        564.0        2,706.0           03                 40                 1,071.8         1,634.2
Vehicle Operating Cost                    1,616.5      1,616.5       1,541.6      1,541.6      1,541.6        7,857.8           09                 80                 6,309.5         1,548.3
Subtotal                           4,455.7      4,372.0       4,314.6      4,223.5      4,332.5       21,698.3           24                 34                 7,381.3        14,317.0
Technical Assistance and Training
Technical Assistance                      2,170.5      1,485.0       1,560.0        561.0        495.0        6,271.5           07                100                 6,271.5
Staff Study Tours                            49.5         49.5          49.5         49.5         49.5          247.5          01                 100                   247.5
Subtotal                          2?2.          1,534.5     T,609.5         610.5         544.5       6,519.0           07                                    6,519.0
Total Base Cost                          27,130.6    19,100.2    14,682.9    14,360.7    14,142.2            89,416.6          100                 43                38,861.2        50,555.4
Contingencies  -  Physical                2,175.1       1,533.8      1,084.7      1,152.5       1,137.1       7,083.2           08                 45                 3,187.4         3,895.8
-  Price                 2,810.9       3,877.6      4,742.5      6,917.2       8,798.9      27,147.1           31                 32                 8,687.1        18,460.0
Subtotal                          4,986.0       5,411.4      5,827.2      8,069.7      9,936.0       34,230.3           39                 35                11,874.5        22,355.8
Total Project Cost                       32,116.6     24,511.6    20,510.1    22,430.4    24,078.2    123,646.9                139                 41                50,735.7        72,911.2
1/  Including retroactive financing of T.Sh.5,516,600 covering expenditure between January 1, 1982 and Credit signing date.



TANZANIA                                                                          ANNEX 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                                       Table T - 1.2
DEVELOPMENT OF EXISTING PLANTATIONS - OPERATING COSTS
---(T.Sh. '000)--
Year 1-1982/83    Year 2-1983/84    Year 3-1984/85   Year 4-1985/86    Year 5- 1986/87            Total    Total    Foreign Exchange         Local
Units     Coat    Units      Cost    Units      Cost   Units      Cost    Units       Cost       Units    Coat         Z       Cost         Cost
(Ha)               (Ha)               (Ha)              (Ha)               (Ha)
Pruning (Labour)
1st - 8 mandays/Ha 1/                                   264      52.8      2,100   420.0      6,300  1,260.0   4,976      995.2   4,700       940.0      18,340   3,668.0    -         -          3,668.0
2nd - 10 md/Ha                                            -       -          264    66.0      2,100    525.0   6,300   1,575.0   4,976   1,244.0         13,640   3,410.0    -          -         3,410.0
3rd - 6 md/Ha                                             -       -            -     -            -      -        264       39.6   2,100      315.0       2,364     354.6    -          -            354.6
Subtotal                                    64       52.8     2,364   486.0      8,400  1,785.0  11,540   2,609.8  11,776   2,499.0         34,344   7,432.6                          T -  7,432.6
Marking for Thinnings (Labour)
Age 10 years - 2 md/Ha                                                                                                               264       13.2         264       13.2                            13.2
Subtotal                                                                                                                 264      13.2         264       T3.2                            13.2
Coppice Reduction (Labour)
1977 Eucalyptus - 5 md/Ha                                -        -            -     -            _      _          -       _        200       25.0         200      25.0    -         -              25.0        t
Measuring of Timber                                                                                                              (000 m3)       -        (000 a3)     -       -
Sales to Pulp mill - 20 md/1,000 m3                                                                                                   16        8.0          16        8.0    -         _              8.0
Hand Tools and Implements  2/                                    40.0               40.0                40.0               40.0                40.0                  200.0   80       160.0           40.0
Base Cost                                                        92.8              526.0             1,825.0            2,649.8             2,585.2               7,678.8   02        160.0        7,518.8
Contingencies - Physical                                          9.3               52.6                182.5              265.0              258.5                  767.9   02        16.0          751.9
102.1              578.6             2,007.5            2,914.8            2,843.7                8,446.7   02       176.0        8,270.7
- Price                                            13.0              163.1               882.7            1,786.5            2,290.4                5,135.7   01        45.1        5,090.6
Total Cost                                      115.1              741.7             2,890.2            4,701.3            5,134.1               13,582.4   01       221.1       13,361.3
1/    Cost per manday - T.Sh. 25
2/     Estimated at T.Sh. 40,000 per year.



- 39 -
TANZANI1AANg 
SAO HlLL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                              Table  T_ 1.3
DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PLANTATIONS 1/ - OPERATING COSTS
---(T.Sh.'000)---
Unit Cost   No, of Units    Yeor 1    Year 2    Yeat 3    YeaT 4         YToo S      Total       Foreign Etoh.a.g     Laol
INPUTS                               Units        (T.Sh)       per yeor    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87       Cast          1       Cant        Cant
('000)       Cost       Coat        Toni       Cant       Cant
S-Y.~~~~~~~
Lobo-r                                            mandoys       25             4.0        100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       500.0        -         -         500.0
Materials - =i6n.                                    T Sh        -            10.0         10.0        10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        50.0       85        42.5         7.5
Cronspona of Plants
Laboor                                            sundays       25             2.0         50.0       50.0       50.0        50.0       50.0       250.0        -         -         250.0
7 to  tTrunk                                           km        2.62         10.0         26.2       26.2       26.2        26.2       26.2       131.0       85       111.4        19.6
Trayn                                                t Sh        -            18.0         18.0        18.0      18.0        18.0      L.0         90.0       80        72.0        18.0
Sitt Ponporation
Labour
-  Clrlarig and burn1i,g                        cadayn        25             4.0        100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       500.0        -         -         500.0
-  Breaking a_thills                            =andays       25             1.8         45.0       45.0       45.0        45.0       45.0       225.0        -         -         225.0
-     --rraoSig                                 nondayn       25             0.4         10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0       10.0        50.0        -         -          50.0
-  Pitting                                      tnodoyg       25             2.9         72.5       72.5       72.5        72.5       72.5       362.5        -         -         362.5
-achines and I=pleen.ts
-  Wheel Truct-r - 94 hp                            hra       83             3.9        323.7      323.7      323.7       323.7      323.7     1,618.5       77     1,246.3       372.2
-  Plough                                           hrn        3             2.5          7.5        7.5         7.5        7.5        7.5        37.5       95        35.6         1.9
- harrot                                            hrn        4             1.4          5.6        5.6        5.6         5.6        5.6        28.0       95        26.6          1.4
- Cr-cU-r Trooner/Ripper - 140 hp                  hkm       147             0.4         58.8       58.8        58.8       58.8       58.8       294.0       85       249.9        44.1
plonting
Labour
s- ckinkg                                    =andays       25             1.3         32.5       32.5       32.5        32.5       32.5       162.5        -         _         162.5
Pl-nting                                      -ondays      25            12.4        310.0      310.0       310.0      310.0      310.0     1,550.0        -         -       1,550.0
F-rtili.tn  Application                      =ondoys       25             2.0         50.0       50.0       50.0        50.0       50.0       250.0        -         -         254.0
- Beating 07                                    mandayo       25             4.4        110.0      110.0      110.0       110.0      110.0       550.0        -         -         550.0
'.-ateriala
-  NP0   Ftrnilizer                                  kg        3            80.0        240.0       240.0      240.0      240.0      240.0     1,200.0       85     1,020.0       100.0
-  b-tat                                             kg        8            24.0        192.0      192.0      192.0      192.0       192.0      960.0       85        816.0      1.4.0
W-Sedi.g
Labour
-  Year I                                    '   odays        25             8.5        212.5       212.5       212.5     212.5      212.5     1,062.5        -         -       1,062.5
-  Year 2                                       =andays       25             5.9        147.5       147.5      147.5      147.5      147.5       737.5        -         -         737.5
-  Year 3                                       mondays       25             2.0         50.0       50.0        50.0       50.0       50.0       250.0        -         -         250.0
oachiSee and I=pl-rents
- Wheel Tra-to-/gatr-o - 78 hp
-  YSar 1                                           hon       68             1.2         81.6       81.6       01.6        81.6       01.6       408.0       85       346.0        61.2
-  Tear 2                                           htn       68             1.2         81.6        81.6       81.6       81.6       81.6       408.0       85       346.8        61.2
Cant of Ens Plantation                                                                   2,330.0    2,535.0    2,335.0    2,335.0    2,335.0    11,675.0       37     4,313.0.,9361.1
Raretro tire Fi.nanoig 2/                                                                5,516.6        -          -          -          -       5,516.6       30     1,654.9     3,061.7
Base Cost                                                                                7,851.6    2,335.0    2,335.0    2,335.0    2,335.0    17,191.6       35     5,968.8    11,222.8
Contingencien - Phyni-ol                                                                   692.2      233.5      233.5      233.5      233.5     1,626.2       35        596.8     1,029.4
8,543.8    2,568.5    2,568.5    2,568.5    2,568.5    18,817.03      35     6,565.6    12,252.2
- Prior                                                                    1,056.8     624.6       957.9    1,327.5    1,718.3     5,685.1       24     1,371.0     4,314.1
Total Cast                                                                        9,600.6    3,193.1    3,526.4    3,896.0    4,286.8    24,502.9        32     7,936.6    16,566.3
1/ [Na Plontattina at 2,000 Oa par yeoo.  Totot 10,000 b,
2/ Details of -ts tn  hr f b.nanned rotroactiaely are giaen an Tablh  T - 1.15.



TANZANIA                                                                                                         ANNEX 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROj9CT - PHASE, I                                                                                      Tb.l  T - 1.4
COST OF REPLANTING CLEARiFELLED PINE AREAS WITH E13XALYPTUS
--- (T.Sh. '000)---
U.ita -eded   Cost/Unit  Tear 1-1982/83 (160 ha)  Yea-2 1983/84 (150 h.)  Year 3-1984/85 (150 ha)  Year 4-1985/86 (150 h.)   Year 5-1986/87 (150 ha)                            Totals (760 h.)  F-rign Exchange   Local
pe- ha            TSh         Foita        Cost          Un1ts           Coat        FaEtn           Coast        Units          Cast          (nit.           Cast          Oits       Cat        S        Cast       Coat
Tran..port of Plants
7 ton tr-c                  5 kn             2.62        800            2.1         750              2.0        750              2.0        750               2.0         750              2.0           3,800    10.0       85          8.6        1.5
Labr                        1 ad            25.00        160           4.0          150              4.0        150              4.0         150             4.0          150              4.0             760     20.0       -          -         20.0
Tray7                       OT.h             -             -            1.4           -              1.4          -              1.4           -              1.4           -              1.4               -      7.8       -          -          7.0
Sit. Prpar-tion
Filing and b-rig
tr-sh                   20 ad            25.00      3,200           00.0       5,000             75.0      3,000             75.0       3,000             75.0       3,000             75.0           15.200   380.0        -         -         380.0
PittIng                     5 ad            25.00        800           20.0         750             19.0        750             19.0        750             19.0          750             19.0           3,800    96.0        -          -         96.0
Plant ing
Staking                     2 ad            25.00        320           8.0          300              7.0        300              7.0        300              7.0          300              7.0           1,520    36.0        -          -         36.0
Planting                    6 ad            25.00        960           24.0         900             22.0        900             72.0        900             22.0          900             22.0           4.560    112.0        -         -        112.0
Application of PattS-
Olieec                   5 od            25.00         000          20.0         750              19.0        750             19.0        750             19.0         750              19.0           3,800    96.0        -         -          96.0
Repla-ong dead plants    3 ad               25.00        480           12.0         450             11.0        450             11.0        450             11.0          450             11.0           2,280    56.0         -         -         56.0
NPKF PetElmer            200 kg             3.00    32,000            96.0      30,000              90.0    30.000              90.0    30.000              90.0       30.000             90.0         152.000   456.0        -          -        456.0
Borate 1/                 00 kg             9.00       9,600          76.9        9,000             72.0      9,000             72.0      9,000             72.0        9,000             72.0          45.600   364.8       85       310.1        54.7
Weeding 
Year 1                     0 ad            25.00       1, 280         32.0        1.200             30.0      1.200             30.0      1,200             30.0        1.200             30.0           6,080    152.0        -         -        152.0
Year 2                     8 ad            25.00       4,240         106.0 2/   1,280               32.0      1,200             30.0      1,200             30.0        1,200             30.0           9,120   22B.0         -         -280
Tear 3  2 nd           25.00        300            7.0 3/   ~~~~~~           ~~1,060  26.0  320             0.0         300              9.0         300               8.0          2.280    57.0         -         -          57.0
Bonn Cost                                                            409.3                         410.4                       390.4                       390.4                         390.4                  2.F070.9      15       318.7   T.752.2
CtlBaEn-PhysIcal                                             48.9                          41.0                        39.0                        39.1                          39.1                    207.1       15        31.9      175.2
5~38.2                       451.4                      2Z'2T9,                      4298.5                                                2,7-8.0      15       35-0.6  -1,-9 27-.
-  fric                                               71.3                        121.7                       177.1                       245.9                         321.4                    937.4       10        89.1       848.3
Total Coal                                                  60-9.5                        575-.1                      606.5                       675.4                         7-50-.9                3.,215.4      1         3.       ,7.
1/    Incladed In cane ongoIng trials indicate its pr.fitahility.
2/l    Of the 530 ha of tepl..ti.g pr-p-nd in-  1981/82.
3/    Of the 1SO ha of replanting d..e in 1980/91.



9   ,,,     00 3    0   't-    -,  "'       0.A   r-    I         I
1 o                    =0 0-       W '10  _'-    C'0 0
o                  '          g. '0          o    H   rI -m C  
O~~~~~ 0
o0          0    w      0   0n         <r
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
O    I                  0    0no o     
w00.
wl   a        s   >       W    uo   ~~~~~~~I w0.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    0'-I
0' ,-   H   _          0.1    -I _         H      '0       O      _        O  rO
H1   H   0             -I H           H                             n        '0w               I   0   0.
H1   -   0l H          H      -       H   .,  0   o0    co   0            00.                -    o. 
^W ~ ~ ~ 0    00 ..  O 
@   +   w  s     D * s @ B ~~~~~~                                         H     .   '0 
I~ ~ I   
'0IH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0'  - W                          H.          H                          '00.i   ~ X l  
*~~~ I-
-~ |           -  |                   H            H                   H      '00
H;  '0  0'   -         H1             H            H                '0       '00. Wr
*  I .    *            *       .      .    .           .       .    .      D    '1 
wH  0'  H1  0'         '-I    _      H        ' ' n c               0      0.00lt
'I0      -          H HH 0'          -                                    w    0lq
H1   _   01  0'        Hl             H    _       0'  0'          '      1    0
-'   U   'I  00        0O    V0       0.   H       H   O.      U              n 
*~~~                    '0       00 *0                   '0          000  C         X * 2P  
x>1  -   v1   o   el    w  o   o  Ln   O  tn   O      lW    '0                      0'
O H    0    0          0      '0      -   '0      H            '0    I        00 1'd 
'0   H     1 H          1      H      H                                        I0 '0  '0  0
0.  Hn  0'             0' -I          HiN WI                                   1                        @ '_
l  0D  0I   H         01      H      0n  0'      H    H                        0  Ir
H1   H   Hl  0         H      '      -   '0      0'  H         o ,       |   
- -E8 -



TANZANIA                                                                                 ANNEX I
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                                              Tahbl  T - 1.6
FIRE PROTECTION - OPERATING COSTS
--(T.Sh. '000)--
Unit Cost   Year 1- 1982/83    Year 2- 1983/84   Year 3- 1984/85   Year 4- 1985/86   Year 5- 1986/87   Total              Total   Foreign Exchange    Local
Inputs                  Units    (T.Sh)        Units    Cost       Units    Cost       Units    Cost      Units    Cost       Units    Cost    Units       Cost       z        Cost       Cost
Labour
Manning of Fire Towers 1/         mandays      25         6,120   153.0       7,140   178.5       8,160   204.0      9,180   229.5    10,200   255.0    40,800    1,020.0    -              -       1,020.0
Fire Investigation Units 2/       mandays      25        14,700   367.5      14,700   367.5    14,700   367.5    14,700   367.5    14,700   367.5    73,500            1,837.5    -         -       1,837.5
Manning Control Centres 37        mandays      25         2,430    60.8        2,430    60.7      2,430    60.8       2,430    60.7      2,430    60.8    12,150         303.8    -         -         303.8
Patrols 4/                        mandays      25         5,400   135.0        5,850   146.3      6,300   157.5      6,750   168.7       7,200   180.0    31,500         787.5    -         -         787.5
Burning of Fire Breaks 5/         mandays      25         2,560    64.0        2,720    68.0      2,880    72.0      3,040    76.0       3,200    80.0    14,400         360.0    -         -         360.0
Subtotal                                          31,210   780.3       32,840   821.0    34,470   861.8    36,100   902.4    37,730   943.3   172,350    4,308.8    -                 -      4,308.8
Equipment
Tractor (98 hp) & Tow Grader 6/   hours        98           720    70.6         765    75.0         810    79.4        855    83.8         900    88.2      4,050        397.0   81       321.6        75.4
Maintenance of Fire Fighting
Equipment 7/                          -       -             -     -             -   140.6           -   140.6          -   140.6           -   140.7           -      562.5   95        534.4        28.1
Subtotal                                                     70.6                215.6              220.0               224.4              228.9                  959.5   89        856.0       103.5
Base Cost                                                         850.9              1,036.6             1,081.8            1,126.8            1,172.2                5,268.3   16        856.0    4,412.3
Contingencies - Physical                                            85.1               103.6               108.2              112.7               117.2                  526.8   16        85.6       441.2
936.0             1,140.2             1,190.0            1,239.5             1,289.4                5,795.1   16       941.6    4,853.5
- Price                                            127.6                302.6              486.8               703.9              958.1                2,579.0   11        270.9    2,308.1
Total Coot                                              1,063.6              ---                1,676.8            1,943.4             2,247.5          -     8,374.1   14          1,212.5    7161.6
1/ Fron the existing 5, the number of fire towers would increae by one each year.  Mandays required per
fire tower - (5 months x 30 days x 4 men) plus (7 months x 30 days x 2 men) = 1,020 mandays.
2/  Mandays for fire investigation - (5 months x 30 days x 70 mec) plus (7 months x 30 days x 20 men)
- 14,700 nd/year throughout the five years.
3/ Mandays for fire control centres - (5 months x 30 days x 4 men) plus (7 months x 30 days x 1 man)
. 810 mandays per centre per year. There will be three such centres.
4/ Mandays for patrols in Year I - 12 months x 30 days x 15 men - 5,400 ads.  This increases by 450 macdays
per year fron Year 2 to Year 5.
5/  Mandays for burning fire breaks in Year 1 - 32 Ha x 10 km per 1,000 ha x 8 md/km - 2,560 md.
This would increase in proportion to the 2,000 Ha added each year upto Year 5.
6/  Tractor Usage - 6 hours per day x 20 days per month a 3 months = 720 hrs for Year 1.  Tbhi  would increase
in proportion to the burning of fire breaks.
7/  45% of the capital cost is provided for spare parts.  Another 15% included under capital cost to cover
purchase of initial stock of spareparts.



TANZANIA                                                                           ANNEX I
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PhASE II                                                        Table T - 1.7
PLANTATION ROADS AND TRACKS - CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
---(T.Sh.'000)--
Unit    Year I - 1982/83    Year 2 - 1983/84    Year 3 - 1984/85    Year 4 - 1985/86    Year 5 - 1986/87                  Total         Foreign Exchange        Local Cost
Cost     Units    Cost         Units    Cost         Units    Cost        Units    Cost         Units    Cost         Units    Cost         Z        Cost
Construction
Upgrading to primary roads        3.7      24 km     88.8       24 km      88.8    24 km         88.8       24 km     88.8    24 km         88.8   120 km        444.0      80       355.2           88.8
New Secondary Roads 1/            2.5      32 km     80.0       32 km      80.0    32 km         80.0       32 km     80.0    32 km         80.0   160 km        400.0      80       320.0           80.0
Tracks 2/                         0.9    145 km    130.5       145 km    130.5   145 km         130.5      145 km    130.5   145 km        130.5   725 km        652.5      80       522.0          130.5
Culverts 3/                       8.1      35 nos   283.5       35 nos   283.5    35 nos        283.5       35 nos   283.5    35 nos       283.5   175 nos   1,417.5        50       708.8           708.7
Bridges - upto 3 m span 4/       17.6       4 km     70.4        4 km      70.4      3 km        52.8        3 km      52.8     3 km        52.8    17 km        299.2      50       149.6          149.6
Bridges - over 3 m span 5/       35.3       1 km     35.3            1     35.3      1 km        35.3         -        _ -                   -        3 km       105.9      50        52.9           53.0
Subtotal                    -         -      688.5         -      688.5       -         670.9         -       635.6       -         635.6       -      3,319.1       64    2,108.5         1,210.6
Maintenance 6/
Existing Roads and Tracks
Roads                             0.6    140 km      84.0      140 km      84.0   140 km         84.0      140 km      84.0   140 km        84.0. 700 km         420.0      50       210.0           210.0
Tracks                            0.2    120 km      24.0      120 km      24.0   120 km         24.0      120 km      24.0   120 km        24.0   600 km        120.0      50        60.0           60.0
Phase II Roads and Tracks
Roads                             0.6         -        -        11 km       6.6    21 km         12.6       32 km      19.2    43 km        25.8   107 km         64.2      50        32.1           32.1
Tracks                            0.2         -         -       48 km       9.6    97 km         19.4      145 km      29.0   193 km        38.6   483 km         96.6      50        48.3           48.3
Subtotal                    -     26*i       108.0      319 km    124.2    Tf7 k      m        437 km    156.2   496 km             172.4 T1, 890km      7 0.8        0        50.4          350.47
Base Cost                                           796.5                 812.7                 810.9                791.8                 808.0               4,019.9      61    2,458.9         1,561.0
Contingencies - Physical                              79.6                 81.3                  81.1                  79.2                 80.8                 402.0      61       245.9           156.1
876.1                894.0                 892.0                 871.0                888.8               4,421.9      61    2,704.8          1,717.1
- Price                               93.1                 191.1                 292.0                395.5                 512.7               1,484.4      47       690.4          794.0
Total Cost                                   969.2              1,085.1               1,184.0               1,266.5               1,401.5              5,906.3       57    3,395.2         2,511.1
1/ 15 km/ha in highland area., 18 km/Ha in lowland area
2/ 65 km of tracks along fire breaks (includes backlog from Phase I) and 80 km of plantation tracks (40 km/Ha)
3/ 1 per km of upgraded road and I per 3 km of secondary roads
4/ 17 such bridges over 5 years for the new secondary roads
5/ 3 such bridges over 5 years for the new secondary roads
6/ One third of roads and tracks will be maintained each year, beginning in the year after construction.



TANZANIA                                                                                                 ANNEX I
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                                                              Table T - 1.8
CAPITAL COSTS OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
---(T.Shi '00)---
Unit    Year I - 1982/83        Year 2 - 1983/84        Year 3 - 1984/85       Year 4 - 1985/86       Year 5 - 1986/87               Total            Foreign Exchange         Local Cost
Cost      Units    Cost           Units    Cost          Units    Cost          Units    Cost           Units    Cost          Units       Cost           1       Cost
Residential Buildings 1/
Type A - Senior Officers            154.0        2       308.0          2       308.0          2       308.2           2       308.0          2       308.0          10      1,540.0        30        462.0         1,078.0
Type B - Middle Level Officers 112.0             1       112.0          1       112.0          -          -            -         -            -          -            2        224.0        30         67.2            156.8
Type C - Junior Staff                67.3       6        403.8          5       336.5          5       336.5           5       336.5          5       336.5         26       1,749.8        30        524.9         1,224.9
Type D - Minor Grades                51.7        5       258.5          5       258.5          5       258.5           5       258.5          -          -           20      1,034.0        30        310.2            723.8
Subtotal                                  14     1,082.3        T13      1,015.0        12        903.          12       903.0          7        644.5         SW      4573T.8         3      1,364.3          3,183.5
Other Buildings and Structures
Divisional Offices                   99.1        1        99.1          -         -            -          -            -         -            _          _            1          99.1        30        29.7             69.4
Nursery Sheds                        53.8       1         53.8          2       107.6          -          -           -          -            -          -            3        161.4        30         48.4            113.0
Fire Look-out Towers                 53.8        1        53.8          1        53.8          1         53.8          1        53.8          1         53.8          5        269.0         30        80.7            188.3
Water Supply Systems                 80.7       2        161.4          1        80.7          -          -            -         -            -          -            3        242.1        30         72.6            169.5
Irrigation System - Nurseries  150.1            1        150.1          2       300.2          -         -            -          -            -          -            3        450.3        30        135.1            315.2
Construction of Nursery Sites  161.4             1       161.4          2       322.8          -          --                                             -            3        484.2        30        145.3            338.9
Subtotal                                           T    679.6                            T                       1 8T                   T         5T.          18      1,706.1                  519
Base Cost                                             1,761.9                 1,880.1                  956.8                   956.8                  698.3           -      6,253.9        30      1,876.1         4,377.8
Contingencies - Physical                                 176.1                  188.0                   95.7                    95.7                   69.8           -        625.3        30        187.6            437.7
1,938.0                2,068.1                1,052.5                 1,052.5                  768.            -      6,879.2         30     2,063.7          4,815.5
- Price                                  239.3                  519.9                  405.5                   562.7                  533.6           -      2,261.0        30        678.3          1,582.7
Total Cost                                            2,177.3                 2,588.0                1,458.0                 1,615.2                1,301.7           -      9,140.2         30     2,742.0          6,398.2
1/  These are based on actual staff strength after considering existing staff houses.



I-                                                -       a-
a-a a-a aIH             H          a          aa-a-a-a-Caa,-a.a-  a-    Ha-H-IC-n   -ala- H    sa-HHHa- .aa-a-a-oa-                                                      a.
.a   a-   a,,                    OC         a.a.a    I  a   I  C   a   a.  -              C                L  -      -I                     a      Ca-as  III
s.-s  CI.1C.  - C CC S a. a    aaaasasa-s                                              5'OCC aaaaaaa a-a-a-a-a-a-
a-  aC                    a-          aaaaa-,aaa-aaa-  a                                      a 557  -  Ca Ia    Ca-ma-na aa-aaaa-a-aa  0
a   a   a       a   a   a   a  a   a         na-a-a-C              a           assaaa-   a-a.-.aa-aa   aa-
5       a-  as                    an           aa   aa-aaaa-                       a   a   a        a..                Ha   a            '-alas   a       aIDaIb,-IC       a
-v   a-a-  aa                     CIa         la-s   I'  C  -,  a-         a   a  a   -   5         Ca
as   aaa   Ca                      IC            a        a-      a   C,  a   a.  a        a-  a   a-a          sa-  as      a  a   Ca-Cl las    asa              -a  -a  a-
-aa   a-s                    Ca-        a-a-a-   a       a-  a.  a   a   a        a-      a   aa-aIHa-aCaa-aasa                             ssCaaHa-a-   a-s   a
H aa   a                        5          a-a-a    a-a- aaa-as                              a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a  as   sr-I- a
I-a-a-as                           a-        a-afl                         a-      a            a   aaaa.    as   a-.  Il  5   a-a   aa-Iasa-a    a                 a-a  a-
a-a   a-a   aa                    a            so                 a        a-  a-  a-           a     as-a        aaasa   II  a-a-  a   saIls'   sa    0
aa                         a          ar-a    i        I  a        a  -a        i       a          a'      a  a-i   -  a   sa               Hsaa,aI-.a-   a        a
aa   a      a-a-                             -s  a                C.      .a   a   a            a     a-a-a        a         II  -   a      ii   a-saa. Ca-a-
a  -sa   aas                     I           a      a-      I.  a-               a  r        assi-              a-sr   a           an           SC        saC
a.a   aa                                CIa-    a-      a-                   a   a-             aa.la-           Ca-           a-a   a-a-  as    l.a    a-   a-
a-  aa   a                      -a         a        a       a.  a                a   a-             a-    a          Ca-           a.a  a-        a-    a Isa-   a-C
a          aw                  a                a                  S I-a            a
a     a-a-a                        a            a                                  a-s                a     a          -as           a aso        aaa-a-s.-a-a   a-a
aa   55       a                    a-        Ia-s     a       a   a                a   a                a-a-a-         aa-                 Ca   aa        a-a-a-       a
a       a                 a          -a       a-      a  a-                    a              a-  aa-          aa-                 a          
a a     a-S                  a            I                                                     Ca-a            a-                          a         a-a-
ss a a a- H a a- a n a a
5   sI      a                                       a                                               aa   V           ca                         a             a
a a-    a                                       a-      a                        a-           a-a-a-a-a-           a-                a-c        a-ca-a-a-a-a-              I-In
a-a   a a     a                                       a-      a-      a-       a       a-           a-a-a-a-             a-                a-a-a-a-Ca-a- Oa-a-Ca-  a-            as
a     a-a     a                                       a-      -a              IC       a-           'Ca-a-a-a          Ia-
a-a                                             a-       a-      a-       a-     a-           a-a-a-a-a             a-          a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-  a-
aa   a-a    a-                                                                                                                                                                      H
a     a     a                                                                                                                                                                  a- a
as   a-a      a                                                                                                                                                                  Ca
a as - - I a- a- a--I a Ic ca-a- Ia-Iaa-a-a-a-a-a- III a- a-a
a-    C     aa        -C  a-a-  a-a-       a-  a- I a        a-              a-      a-       a-a-a-a-a-a-IC                   a-a-a-ca-a-a-a                                   CIa-
a'    a-a-    a-s       a-I  a-a-  a-a-      a-  -$  a         a-              a-      a-       a-  a-a-a-ca-  a-                a-a-a-a-na-a-a-a-a-a-a-               a-         Ca-
Ca   a          a        a- I a-a-  a-a-     a-  a-I  a-               I       a-      a-       a-  a-a-I  Ia-     a-a-a-a-a-a-a-Ia-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-Ill    a-
a-a-  aC      a-a        .j                           .        .               .        .
asa     .     a-a        a   a-a-  a-a-      a-  a-  a-       a-               a-      a-       -   a-a-    a-   a-  a-a-        a-  a-a-a-  a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-          a-          a-
Ca- C.
a a     .       a-                                                                                                                                                                  H
Ca   Ca-    Ca                                                                                                                                                                    a-C
a-C   a-      a-                               I   II  I       I        I       I       I        II    la-a-I      II  Ia-       II  C-a-I a-a-a-a-a-a- I I Ia-a-.-  a-           a-a-
55    a-a-    aC
aC    Ca-    a-C        a-   a-   a-              a-]
as      aa         a-  a-a-  a-a-      a-  a-                                             a-I                -,            a-           a-      a        a-a,a- a-a-  a-a-  a-S  a-
as    a       a-        a-  a-a-  a-a-  I    a-  a-f                                                               a-I           a-           a-a-a-a-a-       a-a-a-  a-         Ca-           a-
a-C    Ca     5C                              .   .                                                                'I             .                                                 -a-         as
a   Ca-    aC         a-  a-a-  a-a-       a-  a-   I        I       I        I       I              Ia-a-I      a-I           a-  a-a-la-a-a-a-ca-Il  Ia-a-a-  a-              Ca-           a-
aa-   a-C     aa-        -   a-a-  a-a-       a-  a-                                            a-I                a-I           a-         a-a-a-a-a-a-                          a-a-          a-
a-        a                                  I                                 .                  a-a-           ba            a-b                      a-a-a-  a-           a-
a-  ag      a-                                                                                                                                                                 a
a-C    Ca-    C                                I   I  I       I       a-       I       I        II    Sill         II  II        I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                             a-
Ca-   C      Ca                                                                                                                                                                  a
a-C   a-.      a a-                                                                                                                                                               a
a       Ca-                                                                                                                                                                                   a-
CC      H      Ca                                                                                                                                                                                    a-
Ca-   CC       a-        -I                                                                                                                                                       as
Ia    a-C     -                   a-a-       a-  a-   I        I      c        I        I       II  hIll           I,  II        I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
a-     a       a                                                        a-                                                                                                         C
a-2
Ca-       C                                                                                                                                                                 a-
C   C          C                             I   II  I        I       I       I        I       I I  11111         II  II        II  IIIlIlIlIIllIII                   I         a-
-   Ca-    CC                                                                                                                                                                                      .4
l.a
a              a                                                                                                                                                                C
a-  C    a-    I IIIIIIlIIII                                  I    I    I    I    II 11111   II II    IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                                                         C                  CC
5     C                                                                                                                                                                                            a-
I   II  I       I        I       I       I        I I  11111          I  Il        I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                             a-
a-          a-
I I Ill   hIll   I    I    I    I    I    I I 11111   II II    Ii IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII                                                                         a-
I      a-                           a-         C
I   II  a-      a-      a-       a-      a-      II  a-a-a-a-a-      II  Ia-       II  a-Ia-a- a-a-a-a-a-ca--a-a-a-a-c             a-
a-  a- a-  a- a-     -   a-                                            a-I                    a-        a-
.1                                           a-              -
a-a-a-a-a-           a-  a-  a-      a-               a-       -       -al  a-a-a- a- a-    at  a-      a-  a a-  a-t   ca-a-a-a-ta-a-a-a-               0
a-  a-a-  a-a-       a-a-a-           a-      a-      a-      C.       a-I  a-a-at-a.     a-a-C        -ca-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a- a-a-a-a-a-                a
a-  a-a-  a-a-      a-  a-  a-       a-       a-      a-      a-       a1a-a-                                                                 a-         a
a-  a-a-  a-a-       a-  a-  a-      a-       a-       a-                    Ca-a-a-a-a-a-    a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-   a-
        CC             hC  C               IC      lb      IC       I   CIC'C'CIC          CC                    a- a- a- a- a- a- a- a- a- a- a-  a-
a- -      a-   a-                                            a-                 a-  a-    -   a-           a-            a-                      a-
cc        a   a-  a-       a-       a       a-      a-      a-  ca-a-a-a-    a-  a-ca-ca-a-a-ca-a-a-a- a-a-a-ca-a-   a-                       a-                 H
a'  -a-a-a-a-      a--a-a-       a-a-a-a-a-a- a- a-a-a-a-a-ca-a-a-a-             a                  C
a-                 a-
a-  a- a-  a- a-     a-  a- I                                              a-a-a-a-       a-  a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-c
a-a-a-a-a-           a-  a-  a-     a-       a-       a-     a-       a- I a-a-a-a-a-    a-a-a-         a-a-a-a- a-a- a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-  a-
4a-a-a-a-a-a-Ia-a-a-                                  a-   a-   a-ia-a-a-a-a-   a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-ca-a-a-a-a-a- a-a-a-a- a-



- 46 -
TANZANI4A                                               ANNEX 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                            Table T - 1.10
PROJErT ADMINISTRATION - LOCAL STAFF SALARIES AND WAXES 1/
-(T.Sh. 000)--
N.S.   URit Cast        Year I      Year 2    Year 3        Year 4    YSar 5        Total
2/         (per aeram)   1982/83   1983/84    1984/85      1985/86    1986/87       (100%
Lasal Cast)
Fr.jeot M..ag r (Chief Farcest OfiCer)              I         50.8         50.8        50.8        50.8         50.8       50.8        254.0
Aket. Prejert Ma.a.  r (Sr. Frcest OffiEer)         1         48.6         48.6        48.6        48.6         48.6       48.6        243.0
Plartastia Ma.a.geeent
Diiisi..al Fla-tatita  Offi or-                     3         30.4         91.2          91.2      91.2         91.2       91.2       456.0
AfC fare  tee ita
Aest. Farcst Officers                               5         16.9         84.5        84.5        84.5         84.5       84.5       422.5
FarteS Aseietaste 3/                               15         10.7        160.5       160.5       160.5        160.5      160.5       802.5
Fartes Atterdeere                                  30          7.6        228.0       228.0       228.0       228.0       228.0     1,140.0
Saco=   - Iahbarr                                  60          7.2        432.0       432.0       432.0       432.0       432.0     2,160.0
Dria rs and Operatsar                               6           7.9        47.4        47.4        47.4         47.4       47.4        237.0
Sab-tatal                                  116                     952.4       952.4       952.4        952.4      952.4    4,762.0
Fire P-rtectian
FPcrst Officer                                      1         30.4         30.4        30.4        30.4         30.4       30.4        152.0
Asst. Ferret OMficer                                1          16.9        16.9         16.9       16.9         16.9       16.9         64.5
Farest Assistasts                                   3         10.7         32.1        32.1        32.1         32.1       32.1        160.5
Farest Atteada-t                                    1          7.6          7.6         7.6         7.6          7.6        7.6         38.0
Dcioae.                                             3           7.9        23.7         23.7       23.7         23.7       23.7        118.5
Sabt-aal                                     9                     110.7        110.7      110.7        110.7      110.7        553.5
Research
S-ora Forest Officer                                1         47.0         47.0        47.0        47.0         47.0       47.0        235.0
AstisEatt Foreet Offi-er                            1          16.9        16.9         16.9       16.9         16.9       16.9         84.5
Forest Aeeissoat                                    1          10.7        10.7         10.7       10.7         10.7       10.7         53.5
Subtotal                                     3                      74.6         74.6       74.6         74.6       74.6        373.0
CGivi Works
Cioil Isgineer                                       1         48.6        48.6         48.6       48.6         40.6       40.6        243.0
C.ol  Works Forceea 3/                              1          25.7        77.1         77.1       77.1         77.1       77.1        385.5
Roildisg Arttiars                                  16          7.8        124.8        124.8      124.8        124.8      124.8       624.0
Driosr r ad op-ratere                               3          7.9         23.7         23.7       23.7         23.7       23.7        118.5
Sabtstal                                    23                     274.2        274.2      274.2        274.2      274.2    1,371.0
AOoO...s aCd Fisass
Sr. A-coaata-t                                      1         24.7         24.7         24.7       24.7         24.7       24.7        123.5
Aooa..taet                                          1         22.1         22.1         22.1       22.1         22.1       22.1        110.5
Accouste A-sieta-ts                                 2          11.0        22.0         22.0       22.0         22.0       22.0        110.0
Procure. nt/Suppliee Officers 3/                    2          28.2        56.4         56.4       56.4         56.4       56.4        282.0
Acounota Clerks                                     4           7.6        30.4         30.4       30.4         30.4       30.4        152.0
Stares Clarke                                       4          7.6         30.4        30.4        30.4         30.4       30.4        152.0
Typirt                                              1           7.2         7.2          7.2        7.2          7.2        7.2         36.0
DSio-re                                             2           7.9        15.8         15.8       15.8         15.8       15.8         79.0
Subtotal                                    17                     209.0       209.0       209.0        209.0      209.0    1,045.0
Adsiaittcatioa
Office Sup roisar                                   1          29.1        29.1         29.1       29.1         29.1       29.1        145.5
Rgistrty Clerk                                      1           7.6         7.0           7.6       7.6          7.6        7.6         38.0
Typist                                              1           7.6         7.6          7.6        7.6          7.6        7.6         38.0
REeeptianilt                                        1           7.6         7.6          7.6        7.6                     7.6         38.0
Rucal n diooI Aid                                   1          15.6        15.6         15.6          6         15         15.6         78.0
N-rs /Midvif                                        1           7.2         7.2          7.2        7.2          7.2        7.2         36.0
2          7.9         15.8        15.8        15.8        15.8        15.8        79.0
Sabtatal                                     8                      90.5         90.5       90.3         90.5       90.5        452.5
Work Stady and Casttie
Forces Ottioe                                       1          30.4        30.4         30.4       30.4         30.4       30.4        152.0
Asst. Forert Officer                                1          16.9        16.9         16.9       16.9         16.9       16.9         64.5
Cost A-o-taa  3/                                     1         24.7        24.7         24.7       24.7         24.7       24.7        123.5
Shbt-aI                                      3                      72.0         72.0       72.0         72.0       72.0        360.0
Saroey and Work Pla
Forest Officers                                     2          30.4        60.8         60.8       60.0         60.0       60.0        304.0
Acst. Forest 0f0icece                               2          16.9        33.8         33.8       33.8         33.0       33.0        169.0
For  t Aaeistoane                                   2          20.7        21.4         21.4       21.4         21.4       21.4        107.0
Subttotl                                     6                     116.0        116.0      116.0        116.0      116.0        580.0
Aeet. Warkehap Mata ec 3/                           1         48.6         48.6         48.6       48.6         40.6       48.6        243.0
Forteas                                             1         23.7         25.7         25.7       25.7         25.7       25.7        128.5
Meohatios                                           6           7.8        46.8         44.8       46.0         46.8       46.8        234.8
Dri'v,rs2                                                      7.9         13.i         15.8       15.8         15.8       15.8         79.0
Subtota1                                    10                     136.9        136.9      136.9        136.9      136.9        684.5
Saee Toes                                         200                   2,226.9     2,226.9    2,226.9      2,226.9    2,226.8    11,434.5
Tota1 Coat                                                              2,226.9     2,226.9    2,226.8       2,226.9    2,226.9    11.t34.5
/  Salaries of sh  thr    repatriate staff (all  -acemental)  are included aeder id chnhicl assistance.
2/  The pre5ect staff   sabliehmear es ta r_  a I.onsetaot thraoaha-e th  prajecs period.
7/  The fallowig ar  inoreeata1 staff far Phae TI:
F- ct Assieso.se  6
Praocers nt Offic-r 1
Cast Aoce-tast l
Alst. Warkehap Mlaeag-r I
Civil Works For=ese 3



TANZANIA                                               ANNEX I
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                           Table T_- 1.11
HEADQUARTERS - GENERAL SERVICES COST
---(T.Sh.'000)---
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total Cost           Foreign Exchange       Local Cost
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87                           %        Cost
Office Supplies                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0         500.0         50        250.0           250.0
Generator Operating Cost            60.0       60.0       60.0       60.0       60.0         300.0         90        270.0            30.0
Staff Subsistence and Leave
Travel Allowances                100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0         500.0          -          -             500.0
Workshop Tools and Equipment        100.0     100.0        -          -          -           200.0         90         180.0           20.0
Protective Clothing & Uniforms   100.0          -        100.0        -        100.0         300.0          50        150.0          150.0
Buildings Maintenance               102.3     118.6      136.1      145.0      154.0         656.0         30        196.8           459.2
Station Upkeep                      50.0       50.0       50.0       50.0       50.0         250.0          10         25.0          225.0
Base Cost                          612.3      528.6      546.1      455.0      564.0       2,706.0         40      1,071.8         1,634.2
Contingencies - Physical            61.2       52.9       54.6       45.5       56.4         270.6         40         107.2          163.4
673.5     581.5      600.7      500.5      620.4       2,976.6          40     1,179.0         1,797.6
- Price              77.4      136.1      223.9      262.8      415.9       1,116.1         75        836.7           279.4
Total Cost                         750.9      717.6      824.6      763.3   1,036.3        4,092.7         49      2,015.7         2,077.0



TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                         Table  T - 1.12
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION - VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
---(T.Sh.'000)--
Vehicle Type             Unit    Year 1 - 1982/83    Year 2 - 1983/84    Year 3 - 1984/85    Year 4 - 1985/86    Year 5 - 1986/87    Total                 Foreign Exchange    Local
Cost      Units    Cost         Units    Cost         Units    Cost         Units    Cost        Units    Cost        Cost            I      Cost        Cost
Existing Fleet 1/
Minibus - 28 seater                54.9       1       54.9          1       54.9          1       54.9          1       54.9          1       54.9       274.5       85         233.3      41.2
4-Wheel Drive - Hard Top           56.4       1       56.4         -         -           -         -           '         -           -         -          56.4       77         43.4       13.0
4-Wheel Drive - Station Wagon   57.4          1       57.4         -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -          57.4       77          44.2      13.2
4-Wheel Drive - LWB - Pick-Up   55.9          3      167.7         -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -         167.7       77         129.1      38.6
Light Pick-Up                      33.1       -        -           -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            -         77          -         -
Saloon Car                        33.4        1       33.4          1       33.4         -         -           -         -           -         -          66.8       77         51.4       15.4
Trucks - 7 tons, Flat Bed          62.9       2      125.8         -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -          125.8      85         106.9      18.9
Trucks - 7 tons, Tipper           74.9        2      149.8          1       74.9         -         -           -         _           _         -         224.7       85         191.0      33.7
Trucks - 10 tons, Flat Bed         84.7       2      169.4         -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -          169.4      85         144.0      25.4
Tractor (78 HP) 3/                96.0        1       96.0          1       96.0         1        96.0          1       96.0         1        96;O       480.0       77        369.6    110.4
Trailer (5 tons) 3/                 4.6       1        4.6         -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            4.6      85           3.9       0.7
Motor Cycles                        4.2       8       33.6         -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -          33.6        77         25.9       7.7
Subtotal                                       949.0                 259.2                 150.9                 150.9                 150.9    1,660.9        81      1,342.7    318.2
0.
New Purchases 2/
4-Wheel Drive - Hard Top          56.4        1       56.4          2      112.8         2       112.8          2      112.8          2      112.8       507.6        77        390.9    116.7
4-Wheel Drive - Station Wagon   57.4         -         -            1       57.4         1        57.4          1       57.4          1       57.4        229.6      77         176.8      52.8
4-Wheel Drive - LWB - Pick-Up   55.9         6       335.4         9       503.1         9       503.1         9       503.1         9       503.1    2,347.8         77      1,807.8    540.0
Light Pick-Ups                    33.1        2       66.2          2       66.2         2        66.2          2       66.2          2       66.2       331.0        77        254.9      76.1
Saloon Car                        33.4       -         -           -         -           1        33.4          1       33.4          1       33.4        100.2       77         77.2      23.0
Trucks - 7 ton - Flat Bed         62.9        3      188.7         5       314.5         5       314.5         5       314.5         5       314.5    1,446.7        85       1,229.7    217.0
Trucks - 7 ton - Tipper           74.9       -         -            1       74.9          1       74.9          1       74.9          1       74.9        299.6       85        254.7      44.9
Trucks - 10 ton - Flat Bed        84.7       -         -           2       169.4         2       169.4          2      169.4         2       169.4       677.6       85         576.0    101.6
Tractor (78 hp) 3/                 96.0      -         -           -         -           -         -           -         -            -         -           -         77          -         -
Trailer (5 ton) 3/                  4.6      -         -           1         4.6         1         4.6          1        4.6         1         4.6         18.4      85          15.6       2.8
Bicycles                           0.2      20         4.0        20         4.0        20         4.0        20         4.0        20         4.0         20.0       77         15.0       5.0
Motor Cycles                        4.2       4       16.8        12        50.4        12        50.4        12        50.4         12       50.4        218.4       77        168.2      50.2
Subtotal                                      667.5               1,357.3                1,390.7               1,390.7               1,390.7    6,196.9        80      4,966.8  1,230.1
Base Cost                                          1,616.5               1,616.5               1,541.6               1,541.6               1,541.6    7,857.8'        80     6,309.5  1,548.3
Contingencies - Physical                              161.6                 161.6                154.2                  154.2                 154.2       785.8       80        630.9    154.9
- Price                               170.3                 338.1                 493.8                 679.8                 854.9    2,536.9        69      1,760.7    776.2
Total Cost                                   1,948.4              2,116.2               2,189.6               2,375.6                2,550.7   11,180.5        78      8,701.1  2,479.4
1/ Purchased under Phase I and used in Phase II
2/ Replacements and additions in Phase II
3/ One Tractor/Trailer to work on general transport on a full time basis.
Operating Cost of all other Tractors/Trailers included under afforestation.



- 49 -
TANZANIA                                                     ANNEX I
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                        Table T - 1.13
(T.Sh.'000)-----
Unit Cost(l)   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total Cost
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  (100% foreign)
A. Long Term
1. Financial Controller                      495.0        495.0    495.0    495.0         -         -          1,485.0
2. Mechanical Workshop Manager               495.0        495.0    495.0    495.0    495.0    495.0            2,475.0
3. Work Study Officer                        495.0        495.0    495.0    495.0         -         -          1,485.0
Subtotal                           ,            1,485.0  1,485.0  1,485.0    495.0    495.0           5,445.0
B. Short Term (Consultancy Service/Study)
1. Fire Protection - 2 m.m. -- Review         49.5         49.5       -         -        49.5       -             99.0
-- Report       16.5         16.5       -         -       16.5       -              33.0
2. Stumpage Rates
3 man months - Review         49.5        148.5       -         -         -        -             148.5
- Report        16.5         16.5       -         -        -         -              16.5
3. National Village Afforestation
Program (6 m.m.) -- Review        49.5        297.0       -         -         -         -            297.0
= Report       16.5         16.5       -         -         -         -             16.5
4. Tree Physiology - Dieback,
Disease  (I m.m.) - Review & Report   66.0            66.0       -         -        -         -              66.0
5. Laboratory Services                                     75.0       -        75.0                 -            150.0
Subtotal                                             685.5       -        75.0      66.0      -             826.6
Base Cost                                            2,170.5  1,485.0  1,560.0    561.0           495.0    6,271.5
Contingencies - Physical                                 -         -         -         -         -              -
Price                                  90.5    146.5    252.2    194.7    211.8             895.7
Total Cost                                         2,261.0  1,631.5  1,812.2    755.7    706.8           7,167.2
1/ Annual cost of an expatriate employee is estimated at $60,000
- at T.Sh. 8.25/$1 = T.Sh. 495,000
Cost of hiring consultants is estimated at $6,000 per man aonth
- at T.Sh. 8.25/$l = T.Sh. 49,500
Cost of Consultant's Reports estimated at $2,000 - T.Sh. 16,500.



TANZANIA                                        ANNEX 1
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                    Table T - 1.14
STAFF STUDY TOURS
---(T.Sh.'000)---
Unit Cost 1/  Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5          Total Cost
1982/83   1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87   (10OX Foreign)
Two staff members - on visits to
forestry projects abroad - (1 month each)  24.75            49.5       49.5      49.5      49.5     49.5           247.5
____               'n
Base Cost                                                   49.5       49.5      49.5      49.5     49.5           247.5              
,Contingencies - Physical                                     -         -         -         -         -              -
- Price                                       4.2        8.2      12.5      17.2      21.2           63.3
Total Cost                                                  53.7       57.7      62.0     66.7      70.7           310.8
1/  Cost of Passage estimated -          $1,000
Subsistence - 30 days at $60/day - $1,800
Clothing etc, allowance -             $  200
Total cost per person/month          $3,000
Converted at T.Sh.8.25/$1 - T.Sh 24,750



ANNEX ,
- 51 -
Table T - 1.15
TANZANIA
SAO Hill Forestry Project - Phase II
Retroactive Financing
(T.Sh. '000)
(1) Planting of Existing Seedlings:                                                    F.E.%
800 Ha - New Planting - Ecalyptus (Transport, Planting & Weeding) 1,505.0    37
530 Ha - Replanting                                                      457.0    37
3780 Ha - Beating Up                                                      195.0    37
Sub-Total = 2,157.0    37
(2) Preparation for Year 1 - 1982/83:
Nursery Costs                                                            569.0    33
Land Preparation                                                          45.0    37
Sub-Total =   614.0    33
(3) Plantation Development Cost:
Weeding (1980/81 Planted Area)                                           583.0    02
Pruning, Marking for Thinnings & Timber Measuring                         39.0    02
Fire Protection                                                          453.0    16
Road Maintenance                                                          50.0    50
Research and Trial Plots                                                  18.0    37
Sub-Total   1,143.0    10
(4) Project Administration:
Existing Local Staff Salaries & Wages                                    930.0    --
Motor Vehicles Operating Cost                                            622.6    80
HQ - General Services Cost                                                50.0    40
Sub-Total = 1,602.6    32
(5) Base Cost                                                                5.516.6    30
(6) Contingencies - Physical (10% of 5,516.8 less 930.0)                       458.7    30
- Price  (1,654.9 @ .0850%) + (3,210.6 @ .14%) + 10%    649.2    24
1,107.9    26
(7) Total Cost                                                               6,624.5    29



TANZANIA                                                  Annex 2
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                               Table T - 2.1
PINE PER HECTARE MODELS
--- (TSh/Ha)--
Financial                                                     Economic
Year   Establishment        Maintenance        Total    Benefits    Establishment    Maintenance    Total    Benefits
Costs               Costs          Costs                        Costs            Costs        Costs
1        3,373                170            3,440                        3,338             122         3,460
2            61                170             231                           49             122            171
3            25                170             195                           20             122            142
4                              170              170                                         122            122                    1
5           200                170             370                          161             122            283                   >
6           328                170             498                          262             122            384
7                              170             170                                          122            122
8           150                170             320                          120             122            242
9                              170             170                                          122            122
10            70                170             240      2,200                56             122            178       7,959
11            78                170             248                           62             122            184
12                             170              170                                          122            122
13                              170             170                           64             122            186
14            80                170             250      6,366                               122            122      17,675
15                             170              170                                          122            122
16            78                170             248                           62             122            186
17                             170              170                                          122            122
18           88                170              258      9,235                70             122            192      26,094
19                             170              170                                          122            122
20                              170             170                                          122            122
21            78                170             248                           62             122            184
22                              170             170                                          122            122
23                              170             170                                          122            122
24                              170             170                                          122            122
25           100                170             270    26,330                 80             122            202      73,312



- 53 -
Annex 2
Table T - 2. 2
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
EUCALYPTUS PER HEC TARE MODEL
---t(TShlHa)--
Financial                                                       Economic
Year   Establishment            Maintenance    Total    Benefits    Establishment    Maintenance    Total    Benefits
Costs                 Costs         Costs                         Costs             Costs        Costs
1         4,927                   167          5,094                         3,942             120          4,062
2           329                   170            499                           263             122            285
3            25                   170            195                            20             122            142
4                                 170            170                                           122            122
5                                 170            170                                           122            122
6            78                   170            248                            62             122            184
7           197                   170            367                           158             122            280
8                                 170            170      8,014                                122            122    28,620
9                                 170            170                                           122            122
10                                 170            170                                           122            122
11            78                   170            248                            62             122            184
12                                 170            170                                           122            122
13                                 170            170                                           122            122
14                                 170            170                                           122            122
15                                 170            170                                           122            122
16           275                   170            445      8,014                220             122            342    28,620
17                                 170            170                                           122            122
18                                 170            170                                           122            122
19                                 170            170                                           122            122
20                                 170            170                                           122             122
21            78                   170            248                            20             122            142
22                                 170            170                                           122            122
23                                 170            170                                           122            122
24           197                   170            367      8,014                158             122            280    28,620
25            78                   170            248                            20             122            142
26                                 170            170                                            122            127
27                                 170            170                                           122            122
28                                 170            170                                           122             122
29                                 170            170                                           122            122
30             78                  170            248                             20             122            142
31                                 170            170                                            122            122
32                                 170            170       8,014                                122            122    28,620



- 54 -
Annex 2
Table T   2.3
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
PHASE II AFFORESTATION PROGRAM: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
---(TShs.'000)---
Financial                                                    Economic
Year   Incremental        Incremental        Net Incremental       Incremental          Incremental    Net Incremental
Costs             Benefits             Benefits              Costs              Benefits          Benefits
1      7,054                                 (7,054)                  5,625                                 (5,625)
2      7,111                                 (7,111)                  5,617                                 (5,617)
3      7,150                                 (7,150)                  5,648                                 (5,648)
4      7,184                                 (7,184)                  5,675                                 (5,675)
5      7,250                                 (7,250)                  5,727                                 (5,727)
6      2,530                                 (2,530)                  2,000                                 (2,000)
7      1,780                                 (1,780)                  1,406                                 (1,406)
8      1,390               4,888              3,498                    1,098              16,028             14,930
9      1,320               4,407              3,087                   1,043              15,741              14,698
10        452               7,927              7,475                     357              22,461             22,104
11        340               7,927              7,587                     269              28,450             28,181
12        340               7,927              7,587                     269              33,000             32,731
13        340              11,066             10,726                     370              42,540             42,170
14        468              13,706             13,238                     269              29,820             29,551
15        340              10,186              9,846                     455              45,848             4r.,33
16        575              14,674             14,099                     269              45,561             45,292
17        340              14,674             14,334                     380              87,311             86,931
18        481              29,369             28,888                     269              57,491             57,222
19        341               7,886              7,545                     269              57,491             57,222
-_     20        340               7,886              7,546                      269             41,750             41,481
21        465               3,479              3,014                     269              41,750             41,481
22        340               3,479              3,139                     142               7,950              7,808
23        340                   -               (340)                    419                    0               (419)
24        205               4,488              4,283                      54             116,678            116,624
25        531              12,580             12,049                      54             133,041            132,987
26         68              12,580             12,512                      54             133,041            132,987
27         68              12,580             12,512                      54             133,041            132,987
28         68              12,580             12,512                      54             133,041            132,987
29         68               8,173              8,105                      54             117,300            117,246
30         68                   -                (68)                     54                    0                (54)
31         68                   -                (68)                     54                    0                (54)
32         68               4,488              4,420                       54              16,028             15,974
33         68               4,407              4,339                       54             16,028              15,974
34         68               4,407              4,339                      54              16,028              15,974
35         68               4,407              4,339                       54             16,028              15,974
36         99               4,407              4,308                      78              16,028              15,950
IRR - 12.6%                                                                    EIRR   30.2



- 55 -
TANZANIA                                               Annex 2
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                            Table T - 2.4
OVERALL AFFORESTATION PROGRAM: FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
---(TShs.'OOO)--
Costs                                                  Benefits
Year   Phase I Costs        Phase II Costs      Total Costs       Phase I Benefits  Phase II Benefits  Total Benefits
1       48,333                  7,054            55,387
2        6,426                  7,111            i3,537
3        5,238                  7,150            12,388
4        4,572                  7,184            11,755
5        2,430                  7,250             9,680                  537                                    537
6        1,908                  2,530             4,438                  976                                    976
7        1,908                  1,780             3,688               14,196                                 14,196
8        1,908                  1,390             3,298               11,592                4,888            16,480
9        1,908                  1,320             3,228               12,394                4,407            16,801
10        2,430                    452             2,882                  731                7,927             8,658
11        1,908                    340             2,248               10,647                7,927            18,574
12        2,430                    340             2,770                8,696                7,927            16,623
13        1,908                    340             2,240                9,328               11,066            20,394
14        2,430                    468             2,898                  609               13,706            14,315
15        1,908                    340             2,248                8,873               10,186            19,059
16        1,908                    575             2,483                7,243               14,674            21,917
17        2,430                    340             2,770                7,493               14,674            22,167
18        1,908                    481             2,389                    -               29,369            29,369
19        1,908                    341             2,771                    -                7,886             7,886
20        1,908                    340              2,770                 670                7,886             8,556
*21        2,480                    465             2,945                1,219               3,479              7,698
22            15                   340                355              17,745                3,479            21,224
23            15                   340                460              14,498                    -            14,492
24           255                   205                546              14,992                4,488            19,480
25            15                   531                 83               1,385               12,580            12,580
26            15                    68                 83               1,385               12,580            12,580
27            15                    68                 83               1,385               12,580            12,580
28            15                    68                 83               1,385               12,580            12,580
s1                    68                 83               1,385                8,17              8,173
30            15                    68                 83               1,385                    -                  -
31            25                    CR                 93               1,385                    -                 -
32                                  68                 68               1,385                4,488             4,488
33                                  68                 68               1,385                4,407             4,407
34                                  68                 68               1,385                4,407             4,407
35                                  68                 68               1,385                4,407             4,407
36                                  99                 99               1,385                4,407             4,407
IRR = 8.02%



- 56 -
TANZANIA                                               Annex 2
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                           Table T - 2.5
OVERALL AFFORESTATION- PROGRAM: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
---(TShs.'OO0)----
Costs                                                  Benefits
Year   Phase I Costs       Phase II Costs       Total Costs      Phase I Benefits  Phase II Benefits  Total Benefits
1       43,492                 5,625             49,117                   0                    0                 0
2        5,783                 5,618             11,401                   0                    0                 0
3        5,164                  5,649            10,793                   0                    0                 0
4        4,115                  5,675             9,790                1,940                   0             1,940
5        2,187                  5,727             7,914               3,525                    0             3,525
6        2,187                  2,000             4,187              51,283                    0            51,283
7        2,187                  1,406             3,595              41,875               16,028            57,903
8        2,187                  1,098             3,285              47,865               15,741            63,606
9        2,187                  1,043             3,230               8,259               22,461            30,720
10        2,187                    357             2,544             120,341               28,450           148,791
11        2,187                    269             2,456              94,918               28,450           123,368
12        2,187                    269             2,456             108,016               33,000           141,016
13        2,187                    370             2,557              11,583               42,540            54,123
14        2,187                    269             2,456             169,270               29,820           199,090
15        2,187                    455             2,642             137,640               45,848           183,488
16        2,187                    269             2,456             142,348               45,561           187,909
17        2,187                    380             2,567                   0               87.311            87,311
18        2,187                    269             2,456                   0               57.491            57,491
19        2,187                    269             2,456              17,885               57,491            75,376
20        2,187                    269             2,456              32,545               41,750            74,295
21        2,187                    269             2,456             473,506               41,750           515,256
22        2,187                    142             2,329             386,804                7,950           394,754
23        2,187                    419             2,606             887,498                    0           887,498
24        2,187                     54              2241               3, 68              116,678           120,401
25           14                     54                68               3,723              133,041           136,764
26           14                     54                68               3,723              133,041           136,764
27          230                     54               284               3,723              133,041           136,764
28           14                     54                68               3,723              133,041           136,764
29           14                     54                68               3,723              117,300           121,023
30            14                    54                68               3,723                    0             3,723
31           14                     54                68                3,723                   0             3,723
32            14                    54                68                    0              16,028            16,028
33           14                     54                68                    0              16,028            16,028
34            14                    54                68                    0              16,028            16,028
35            14                    54                68                    0              16,028            16,028
36           14                     78                92                    0              16,028            16,028
IERR - 34.5



TANZANIA                                                                           Ann"e  2
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II                                                         Table T - 2.6
GOVERNMENT PROJECT CASH FLOW 1/
---(T.Shs. 000)---
Cash Inflow                                                            Cash Outflow
GOT Physical  Bank Group  Phase I 2/ Phase I12/  Total                  Project Costs         Banl; Group Debt Servicing           Total              Surplus Deficit
Year         Credit    Revenue    Revenue  "Cash Inflow"    Phase I    Phase II             Phase I       Phase II        "Cash Outflow"  With Phase II Without Phase II
1982/83        15,675                              15,675         11,633        3,430            1,278           118            16,459             (784)            (12,911)
1983/84        19,800                              19,800          6,420       12,771            1,403           266            20,860           (1,060)             (7,823)
1984/85        18,150                              18,150          3,575       11,174           1,526            403            16,678            1,472              (5,101)
1985/86        17,325                              17,325          3,482       11,076           1,650            533            16,741              584              (5,132)
1986/87        18,975          537                 19,512          3,482       10,913            1,815           675             16,885           2,627              (4,760)
1987188         9,075          976                 10,051          3,482        2,530            1,939           743              8,694           1,363              (4,445)
1988/89                     14,196                 14,196          1,908        1,780           2,145            743              6,576           7,620              10,143
1989/90                     11,592      4,888      16,480          1,908        1,390           2,351            743              6,395          10,085               7,333
1990/91                     12,394      4,407      16,801          1,908        1,320            2,434           743              5,405          11,395               8,052
1991/92                        731      7,927       8,658          2,430          452           2,681            743-             6,306           2,352              (4,380)
1992/93                     10,647      7,927      18,574          1,908          340           2,888            743              5,879          12,795               5,851
1993/94                      8,696      7,927      16,623          2,430          340           3,053            743              6,566          10,057               3,213
1994/95                      9,328    11,066       20,394          1,908          340            3,176           743              6,167          14,227               4,244
1995/96                        609    13,706       14,315          2,430          468            3,300           743              6,941           7,374              (5,121)
1996/97                      8,873    10,186       19,059          1,908          340            3,630           743              6,621          12,438               3,335
1997/98                      7,243    14,674       21,917          1,908          575           3,918            743              7,144          14,773               1,417
1998/99                      7,493    14,674       22,167          2,430          340            4,290           743              7,803          14,364                 773
1999/2000                          -    29,369       29,369          1,908          481            4,700           743              7,832          21,537              (6,608)
2000/01                          -      7,886       7,886          1,908          341            5,074           743              8,066            (180)             (6,982)
2001/02                        670      2,886       8,556          1,908          340            5,569           743              8,560               (4)            (6,807)
2002/03                      1,219      3,479       7,698          2,480          465            3,094         4,043             10,082          (2,384)             (4,355)
2003/04                     17,745      3,479      21,224              -          340                -         4,043              4,383          16,841              17,745
2004/05                     14,498          -      14,492              -          340                -         4,043              4,383          '10,109             14,498
2005/06                     14,992      4,488      19,480              -          205                -         4,043              4,248          15,232              14,992
2006/07                      1,385    12,580       12,580               -         531                -         4,043              4,574           8,006               1,315
1/   In 1981 Prices
2/   Revenue is based on theoretical stumpage rates of TSh. 157.20/m3 of sawlogsi and
TSh. 55/m3 of pulpwood, whereas current stumpage rates are 75% less than these prices.



- 58-
Annex 2
Table T-2.7(a)
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Price Structure of Standing Sawlogs
(TSh/m3)
Existing Price       Estimated Price
Tantimber Wholesale Price                     2,495                2,495
less:
-- industry profit margins                      417                  283
-- transport to markets                         280                  280
-- conversion costs  1/                       1,109                1,109
-- logging and transport                        509                  509
Value of Sawlogs before Conversion               180                  314
Conversion Rate                                   2                     2
Value of Standing Sawlogs                         90                  157
1/ Include conversion costs and profit
margins for sawmills.
November 1981



- 59 -
Annex 2
Table T-2.7(b)
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Price Structure of Standing Pulpwood
(TSh/tonne)
Existing Price       Estimated Price
Ex-Mill Sales Value  1/                    5,420                  5,420
less:
-- industry profit margins                    540                   425
-- conversion costs   2/                    3,880                 3,880
-- logging and transport                      840                   840
Value of Pulpwood before Conversion           160                   275
Conversion Rate                                 5                     5
Value of Standing Pulpwood, per m3             32                    55
1/ Based on Dar landed composite price of US$ 672 for
Scandinavian paper products in May 1981 less transport
costs of TSh 120/ton to Mufindi.
2/ Includes conversion costs, depreciation and amortization
and profit margins for the pulpmill.
November 1981



ANNEX 2
Table T-2.8
- 60 -
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Import Parity Price for Wood
Pulpwood            Sawlogs
(Tsh/ton-ne.)       (Tshs/mJ)
Landed composite price at Dar                       5,540 1/          1,535 2/
Transport to markets                                  120 4/             280
Processing and logging costs                        4,720 5/            890
Distribution and transport costs                      145 6/              80 3/
Price of standing wood before conversion              795               845
Conversion coefficient                        3      0.20                ,5Q
Price of standing wood after conversion per m         159               423
1/ Based on actual landed composite cost at Dar of US$672 for Scandinavian
paper products in May 1981.             3                                  3
2/ Based on Chile f.o.b. price of US$130/mi plus freight charges of US$56/mi
3/ Dodoma is assumed the center of consumption for timber and will be trans-
ported by rail from Mufindi.
4/ Pulp consumption centers are limited to Dar, Arusha and Tanga.
5/ Mill manufacturing costs for new mills of 300,000 mt/year were US$375/ton
or Tsh 3,094/ton in Sweden, US$350/ton or Tsh 2,888/ton in Southern US,
British Columbia and Brazil in 1978.
6/ Distribution and transport costs as well as margins for paper and paper
products.
September 15, 1981



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-2.9
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Export Parity Value of Standing Sawlogs
(Tsh/m3)
Price f.o.b., Dar-es-Salaam   1/        1,450
Transport Costs to Dar                     80
Processing and Logging Costs              890
Price of Sawlogs before Conversion        480
Conversion Coefficient                   0.5Q
Price of Standing Sawlogs after
Conversion 2/                        240
1/       Based  on Tantimber export prices for premium quality
soft timber in March 1981.
2/       Estimated export parity price for Kenya sawlogs is  about
Ksh 171/m3 with shadow-pricing of foreign exchange (Kenya Forestry II
Appraisal Report, August 19l81).



62 -                              Annex 3
Table T-3.1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IDA FY and Quarter            Quarterly Disbursement          Cumulative Disbursement
FY 1982  Ql
Q2
Q3
Q4 1/                        550                                550
FY 1983  Ql                            360                                910
Q2                           360                              1,270
Q3                           360                              1,630
Q4                           690                              2,320
FY 1984  Ql                            690                              3,010
Q2                           690                              3,700
Q3                           690                              4,390
Q4                           600                              4,990
FY 1985  Q1                            600                              5,590
Q2                           600                              6,190
Q3                           600                              7,790
Q4                           600                              7,390
FY 1986  Ql                            600                              7,990
Q2                           600                              8,590
Q3                           600                              9,190
Q4                           600                              9,790
FY 1987  Ql                            450                             10,240
Q2                           450                             10,690
Q3                           450                             11,140
Q4                           450                             11,590
FY 1988  Ql                            450                             12,000
Q2
Q3
Q4
1/ Quarter in which credit is expected to become effective and the disbursement
shown is for retroactive financing.
September 22, 1981



- 63 -                             Annex 3
Table T-3.2
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Physical Work Schedule
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5
Unit                                                        Total
1982/83  1983/84   1984/85   1985/86  1986/87
A. AFFORESTATION
Seedling Production Millions   3.9         3.9        3.9       3.9      3.9        19.5
Site preparation      Ha        2000      2000      2000       2000    2000        10000
Planting              Ha        2000      2000      2000       2000    2000        10000
Replanting            Ha         160       150        150       150      150         760
Weeding               Ha        6840      6840       6460      6450    6450        33040
Pruning               Ha         264      2364      8400      11540   11776        34344
Firebreak construc-
tion                 Km          20        20         20        20       20         100
Firebreak maintena-
nce                  Km         300       320        340       360      380        1700
B. FOREST ROADS
Upgrading of secon-
dary roads           Km          24        24         24        24       24         120
New secondary roads  Km           32        32         32         32      32         160
New tracks            Km         145       145        145       145      145         725
Road and track
maintenance          Km         260       319        378       437      496        1890
C. BUILDINGS/STRUCTURES
Staff Houses          Units       14        13         12         12       7          58
Divisional Offices   Units         1         -          -          -       -           1
Nurseries             Units        1         2          -          -       -           3
Fire look-out towers Units         1         1          1          1       1           5
Water Supply System  Units         2         1          -          -       -           3
D. CONSULTANCY/STUDIES
Fire Protection       Manmonths   1          -          -          1       -           2
Stumpage Rates .     
Review               Manmonths   3          -          -          -       -           3
Village Afforesta-          I
tion                 Manmonths   6          -          -          -       -           6
Tree Physiology       Manmonths   1          -          -          -        -          1



Annex 4
Table T-4.1
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Average Recorded and Estimated Production and Apparent Consumption of Sawlogs in Tanzania, 1978-80
('000 m3 (r) )
Recorded           Bank 1/-       FAO 2/
A.    PRODUCTION
Softwoods                      73.0           146.0          182.5
Hardwoods                     122.0           305.0          305.0
Total Production         195.0           451.0          487.5
B.    NET EXPORTS
Softwoods                       2.0             2.0            2.0
Hardwoods                       4.0              4.0            4.0
Total Exports               6.0             6.0            6.0
C.    APPARENT CONSUMPTION
Softwoods                      71.0           144.0          180.5
Hardwoods                     118.0           301.0          301.0
Total Consumption         189.0           445.0          481.5
.o=
lt    Bank Mission Estimates based on multipliers of 2.0 for  softwoods  and 2.5 for hardwoods.
21    Bank Mission Estimates based on a multiplier of 2.5 for both softwoodls and hardwoods as estimated
by FAO in 1974.
Source: Forest Department and Mission estimates



Table T-4.2
- 65 -
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
National Supply and Demand for Sawlogs -  , 1980-2010
('000 m3 (r) )
1978-80      1985     1990      1995      2000      2005     201C
2/'
National Supply: -
Softwoods:             3/
Sao Hill Ph. I & II -          -           -          7       70        80       819       240
Other Sources                 146         300       300      454       573       353       300
Hardwoods                       305         400       400      400       400       400       400
Total Supply                      451         700       707       924    1,053    1,572        940
National Demand                   480         604       760       955    1,203    1,514    1,904
National Deficit
(Surplus)                       29          (96)      53        31       150       (58)     964
1/  Includes sawlogs and logs for panel production.
2/ Includes Sao Hill Forestry I and II output.
3/ Maximum production of 1,050,000 m3 would be reached in
Year 2003 and production after Year 2005 would be from
Phase II plantations only.
4/  Based on following assumptions:
(a) 1978-80 average demand is 480,000 m3
(b) population growth is 3.4% p.a.;
(c) per capita income increase is 1.3% (in real terms) p.a.;
(d) elasticity of demand for sawlogs is 1%; and
(e) rate of substitution for sawn timber by non-woodbased
products is zero.
October 2, 1981



ANNEX 4
- 66 -                             Table  T-4.3
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Production and Prices Trendsfor Sawn Timber in Tanzania, 1977-8]i/
Quality Hardwoods 2/          Utility Timber 3/
Sawn Timber      3       Nominal   Real Price 5U       Nominal   Real Price 5j
Year            Production (000 m )       Price                          Price
--------------------- Tshs|m3
1977                  167                 1,350        1,212            1,217       1,093
1978                  177                 2,022        1,620            1,460       1,169
1979                  153                 2,363        1,675            1,837       1,302
1980                  260                 2,633        1,654            2,130       1,339
1981                  200 3/              3,105        1,695             2,495      1,362
Average Annual
Growth Rate           -                  18.1          7.0             15.4         4.5
I/ Wholesale official prices by Tantimber; the actual retail prices are probably much
higher than these.
2/ Average Tantimber price for camphor and mainga sawnr timber.
3/ Average Tantimber price for cypress/pine and podo sawn timber.
3
4/ January-Apri' 1981 production estimated at 70,000 m
5/ Based on Banks estimated inflation rates of 11.4% in 1977, 12.0% in 1978, 13.1% in
1979, 13.0% in 1980 and 15.0% in 1981 (Tanzania Economic Memorandum of April, 1981).
August 25, 1981



- 67 -             ANNEX 4
Table T-4.4
TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
General Pattern of Sawnwood Consumption in Tanzania I/
(Percent)
-------------Species Group-----------------------
------------ Hardwoods-----------
End - Use                Softwood           Utility           Fine        Total
Furniture                   28                  27              55         36
Joinery                     32                  37              31         34
Building                    32                  26              11         24
Others                       8                  10               3          6
Total               100                 100              100       100
1/      Estimates for the early 1970ts
Source: Jaakko Poyry, Wood Industries Development Program in Tanzania:
Annex on Domestic and Export Market Prospects for Mechanical
Wood Products, 1979



- 68 -
TANZANIA
Annex 5
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II                            Table T-5.1
Assessment of Labor Availability
(Mandays)
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    Hay   June    July        Aug.    Sept.   Oct.   N<ry.    Dec.
A.  Farming Activities 1/
Maize(1.28 ha)                    10.2    9.0    5.1    3.8    12.8  19.2    32.0    37.0         20.5   20.0   20.5    16.6
Peas (0.19 ha)                     --     0.6    1.3    4.4       8.8   1.9      --       0.6      0.6    1.3
Other (0.47 ha) 2/                 7.5    7.5    7.5    6.6       6.6   5.6      7.5      8.5-     6.6    7.5    6.6       5.6
Total Labor Input            17.5   17.1   13.9   14.8    28.2  26.7    39.5    46.1         27.7   29.3   27.1    22.2
Labor availability 31               45     45      45     45       45    45       45       45       45      45      45      45
Residual Labor A/                 27.5   27.9   31.1   30.2    16.8  18.3        5.5    (1.1)    17.3   15.7   17.9    22.8
Available Residual Labor in 5/
Sao Hill area(000)-    825    837    933    906        504   549      165    (33)        519    471    537      684
B.  Forestry Acvitities:
Planting (1.0 ha) 6/                50     50      50    ---      ---    ---     ---      ---      ---    ---      50       50
Weeding  (1.0 ha)                  ---    --      --      -        25    25       25       25        25     25    ---      --
Beating up (1.0 ha)                ---     25      25      25     ---   ---      ---      ---      ---    ---    ---       ---
Site preparation 7/                ---    ---    ---    ---        50    50       50       50       50      50    ---      ---
Total Labor Input                50     75      75     25       75    75       75      75        75      75     50       50
Project labor requirement
(000 m-d) 8/                   20      33     33       1       44    44       44      44        44     44      20       20
Project labor requirement
as % of available residual
labor                       2.4    3.9    3.5    0.0        8.7   8.0    26.7   133.3        8.5    9.3    3.7       2.9
1/  Based on Working Paper C-6, Table 5 for Ubena Zone for the Tanzania Pyrethrum Project,(SAR dated March 20, 1980).
2/ Assumed to comprise 20% sunflower, 40% beans and 40% irish and sweet potatoes.
3/  On the basis of 24 m-days from the husband, 24x0.7 m-days from the wife, plis 4 m-days x 0.5 from each of children of
working age.
4/  Residual labor available for non-farm employment.
5/ There are 30.000 households in the 20 villages in the Project area.
6/  Includes staking and planting for pine, and less for eucalyptus (16 m-days/ha).
7/ Principally involving clearing and burning and breaking anthills.
8/ Based on 400 ha/month for planting; 250 ha/month for weeding; 40 ha/month for beating up; 333 ha/month for site
preparation.  Labor requirement for nursery work would be provided by permanent employees.



TANZANIA
SOA HILL FORESTRY PORJECT -PHASE 11
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
M kinistty of Natural Resourms_0
D irector of Forest$ 
|Project Maneger
(Chief Forest Officer)
Asst Project Manaqr                                                                                                                        As.t Project Manager
Operations)                                                                                                                         IFinance and Planningi
_. ~            ~                    ~                   ~                  ~ZZ IZZL
Reearch                    Pla,tation Manatl-rent                  Civil Works                   Survey and Work Plan              Accounts and Finanre                  Administration                Work Study and Costing                    Work Shop
(Research Office t                                                    (Civil Engineer)                  (Forest orlicer)                  (Sr. Accountant)                  (Office Supervisor)                IWork Study Officer)               (Work Shop Manager)
Assistant Research                Divisional Plantation             Civil Works Foremen   3           Forest Officer        1            Accountant              I          Registry Clerk        1           Forest Officer         1           Assistant Workshop
Officer              1            Offirls -- . II. III            Artisans               16         Assistant Forest                    Accounts Assistants   2           -rypist                I           Assistant Forest                    Maniager               I
Forest Assistant      1           Forest Officers       3          Drivers/Operators       3           Officers             2            Procurementl                      Receptionist           1            Officer               1           Foreman                 I
Forest Assistants     2             Supplies Officer       2         Medical Aide           1           Cost Accountant        1           Mechanics               6
-                                                    -                                            Accounts Clerks         4          Num                    I                                              Drivers              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_Acons  lrs    use1-Drvr
23                 -~           ~~~~~ Stores Clerks     4          Dtivers                2                                 4
Typist                  1 
Drivers                2 
Fire P-otection                    Afforestation
Forest Officer         1          Assistant Forest
Assistant Forest                   Officers                5
Officer               1         Forest Assistants       15
Forest Assistants      3          Forest Attendants      30
Forest Attendant       1          Hrsdmen (Laborerni   60
Drivers                3          Drivers/Operators       6
World Bank--23256






TANZANIA
SAO HILL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE 11
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 0            Year 1              Year 2             Year 3              Year 4              Year 5
1981/82             1982/83            1983/84            1984/85              1985/86            1986/87
Q 0 Q2  Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2  Q3  04  01  02  03 04  01  Q2  Q3  04   01102  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4
1. Consultancy and Studies:
Fire Protection                                   ...                ....
Stumpage Rates Review                                       ..  .......
Village Afforestation                                       ... ...   ....
Forest Pathology                                 ....
2. Project (Phase 11) Effectiveness                                     _
3. Employment of Expatriates/Counterparts:
Financial Controller                          -  .      _                  -   - _   _   _-                       -
Workshop Manager                                    .1 _
Work Study Officer
4. Civil Works Program:
Roads and Tracks                                            - -            -            -  - _  _  _    _ _
Staff Houses                                                - -  - =                          - -_ =                       -- __ _                       -
Divisional Office
Nurseries and Water Supply                                   -    _        -    _    -
Fire Towers                                                      -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
5. Procurement of Vehicles and Equpment           | |                        -   -    - -       -    -   -    -
6. Afforestation Program:
Establishment - New Plantations             |            -----                      ---             -          --- -     -    - 
Maintenance - Existing Plantations                      -     -  - _  _         - _ _          - _    _           -    - _ _          -    --
Replanting                                                  - - -                               _ - - - -              _ - - -   -
Nursery Operations                                 -    -   - _         _    _
Fire Protection                             |           |  . |  _    _   _   _    _    _   _   _   _    _         _   _          _   _    _
7, Research and Trials                                             -    -         - _    _   _   _    _
8. Staff Study Tours/Training                                      ........... ... ..................  ....... ...                       ..
Planning and Preparing                                                                                 Project Period
-_  Implementing
.......  Implement as and when required                                                                                                               World Bank-23255



I



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIRD ISE06
3       <__FIH1OFA>r,  no.....  .  vX. d/ ...... ,, eF e  ER - 
DIV I~~~~~~~~~~~~DI  / 
AA
P.[, ,,  AAIcI
k r y  1   ,,                                    \~~~~~~~~~~C        .9                                                            7.    6,,, A\ InWiR/r  ' 
N.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
.   g               <        * E O q K 0 N G O 5SAOIHILWFORESTRY,PROJEC
---5P                                                                   I - P--nt, io~ '  _ '
;   X    ,   ,l,                             *,  -   '  T  ,/-L'AA LB ,.__  -,
h -,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T N .AK A-  S 
A ~ ~      ~    ~      va                                                                          Psas U' i_  Plantation - Ar  eas  er   i    r
. k t>F l ,  P >SASS                    A.       1                BoGo E_j, Xfwlnca



