OFFICIAL
)0CUMENT81 CREDIT MUBER 1229 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Sao Hill Forestry Project - Phase II)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOpENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUKEER 1229 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          /AOL      19                , 1982,
between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANII      (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term: "Forest Division" means the Forest Division within
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The   Association   agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, ae such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending
March 1, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Forest Division with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate financial, economic and forestry
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
an Assistant Project Manager, Finance and Planning, a Workshop
Manager and, not later than December 31, 1982, or such other date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, a
Work-Study Specialist, whose selection, qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association in accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b)  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in
accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall assign counterpart staff
with appropriate qualifications and experience to the Assistant
Project Manager, Finance and Planning, to the Work-shop Manager
and to the Work-study Specialist, promptly upon their employment,
to assist them in the implementation of Part E of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall keep the position of Pro-
ject Manager filled at all times with a person whose qualifica-
tions and experience are satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall employ, not later than
December 31, 1982, or such other date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association, six additional forest assis-
tants with appropriate qualifications and experience to assist in
the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Association and not later than June 30, 1983, or such other date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, take
all measures necessary to ensure that the harvesting and logging
of all forest resources under the Project shall be coordinated
between the major users of said forest resources, including the
Sao Hill saw mill and the Mufindi pulp and paper mill.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the study
included in Part F.2 of the Project, under terms of reference
agreed between the Lorrower and the Association, to estimate the
appropriate level of stumpage rates for its plantation forestry
resources; (ii) furnish it to the Association for it3 review and
comments, not later than June 30, 1983, or such other date as may
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and (iii)
take promptly thereafter all measures as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association based on the findings of said
study.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower   shall cause all goods and      services
financed out of the proceeds of tha Crelit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits tm be derived from it), to
Identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the
land assigned for forest plantation under the Project shall not
be encroached upon or used for other purposes.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Otther Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations,  resources - and  expenditures, in   respect   of  the
Project, of    the  departments  or  agencies   of  the   Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)     Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditurEs on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until. one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably  requested,   including  without   limitation  to   the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and furnish
to the Association for its review and comments, not later than
July 31, 1983 and every five years thereafter, a work plan for
all plantations under the Project which is based on detailed
plantation inventories and which specifies for each plantation


﻿-7-
compartment all works to be undertaken in the next five years,
including: pruning, thinning, clear felling and replanting; and
(ii) implement such work plan promptly after review by the
Association, taking into account the Association's comments.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the roads, firebreaks
and other civil works and facilities included in the Project to
be maintained in accordance with sound engineering, forestry and
financial principles and practices, and shall make available
sufficient funds for such purposes.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely that the Assistant Project Manager,
Finance and Planning, and the Workshop Manager referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) hereof have been appointed in accordance with
the provision of such Section.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opfiion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that an area of not less
than 10,000 hectares has been exclusively reserved for the
establishment of forest plantations under Part B of the Project
in accordance with the laws of the Borrower and that no further
action shall be required to permit the immediate planting of the
area.
Section 5.03. The date,      L41, mv, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Settion 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Cable address:                       Telex:
TREASURY                           41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By  Isi      / Pe     2
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/s,        9   4,e
C <     Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Catr'gory and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expr Ased in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) (a) Vehicles,            1,350,000        100% of foreign
and equipment                       expenditures
and spare parts                     and 75% of local
expenditures
(b) fire fighting         140,000        100% of foreign
equipment                           expenditures
and 75% of local
expenditures
(2) Civil Works              1,140,000        75%
(3) Consultants'               790,000        100% of foreign
Services and                             expenditures and
Study Tours                              75% of local
expenditures
(4) Afforestation            4,800,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(5) Staff salaries             700,000        75% of local ex-
and wages                                penditures up to
an aggregate dis-
bursed amount of
SDR 350,000, there-
after 60% of local
expenditures up to
an aggregate dis-
bursed amount of
SDR 525,000; and
thereafter 40% of
local expenditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Administrative           1,140,000        100% of foreign
expenses and                             expenditures and
vehicle oper-                             75% of local
ating costs                               expenditures
(7) Unallocated                440,000
TOTAL   10,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount


﻿- 12 -
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 700,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after December 31, 1981;
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(1) (b) above unless the fire-fighting equipment included in said
Category shall have been acquired in accordance with detailed
proposals for the specifications and design of such equipment,
satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which, in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures: and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Further development of about 18,000 hectares of existing
forest plantations established under the first Sao Hill Forestry
Project for production of saw logs and pulpwood.
Part B:
Establishment and development of about 10,000 hectares of
new forest plantations for production of saw logs and pulpwood.
Part C:
Construction of about 160 kilometers of secondary forest
roads and of about 725 kilometers of tracks and upgrading of
about 120 kilometers of secondary forest roads to primary forest
roads.
Part D:
Construction of about 60 staff houses, and about 20 adminis-
tration buildings and other structures.
Part E:
Strengthening the Forest Division's operations, especially
its financial management, cost accounting and planning procedures
and mechanical engineering services with the assistance of con-
sultants and through the provision of short study tours for
selected staff.
Part F:
1.    Review of the fire protection system in the plantations
under the Project.


﻿- 14 -
2.    Study to estimate the appropriate level of stumpage rates
and prices for forestry products.
3.    Review of the measures undertaken to solve the die-back
problem in the plantations under Part A above.
4.   Formulation of a National Village Afforestation program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1987.


﻿- 15 -
SCEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable contracts for vehicles, tractors,
machinery and equipment shall be grouped to form adequate bid
packages. Bidders shall be required to maintain in the territory
of the Borrower adequate after sales services and spare parts
inventories.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account


﻿- 16 -
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids offering     goods manufactured   in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the   satisfaction   of  the   Borrower   and   the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Tanzania equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 17 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, tractors,
machinery and equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 each
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Association, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts
shall not exceed $300,000.
2.   Civil works may be carried out by the Borrower by force
account, in accordance with the Borrower's standards and designs
acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids area invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 18 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish . to  the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with .he analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


