Document of
FILE Copy   The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2299-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
June 20, 1978
This document has a restricted diribultion and may be _ed by recipients only in the performance of
their ofikcial duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank Authborizton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1                     -     YRls 4.50 1/
YRls         1         =            $0.22
YRls     1,000         -          $222.00
YRls 1,000,000         -     $222,222.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO               Central Planning Organization
FPRA              Mineral and Petroleum Resources Authority
YGEC              Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YPC               Yemen Petrdle'um Company
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared
to the IMF. All exchange transactions are effected at
the Central Bank rate which has been pegged to the US
dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Yemen Arab Republic.
Beneficiary:           Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC)
Amount:                US$10 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by the
Government to YGEC at an interest rate of 7.5 percent
per annum for a period of twenty years including five
years grace. The foreign exchange risk will be borne
by YGEC.
Project
Description:         (i)  Objectives and Description
The project aims at improving and expanding the
urban electricity distribution networks in the three
main cities of Sana'a (the capital), Hodeida and Taiz,
and to improve YGEC's organization and effectiveness
through the provision of consulting services and
training.
The project is the 1979-81 time slice of YGEC's
distribution program for the period 1979-1983. It
would include: (i) the provision of about 570 km of
high and low-voltage distribution lines and cables
with 260 MVA of associated substations; (ii) provi-
sion of 40,000 new and rehabilitated consumer connec-
tions; (iii) the supply of service vehicles, communi-
cation equipment and electricity meters; (iv) consult-
ing services for project engineering and construction,
and for a rural electrification study; and (v) a
training program for engineering, management and
accountancy.
(ii) Benefits and Beneficiaries
The project would achieve a reduction in distribu-
tion losses in the three cities, at present ranging
from 20 to 25 percent because of the run-down condition
of the networks, and increased supplies of electricity
to existing and new consumers, coupled with an improved
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
quality of service. The beneficiaries will be the
existing and new consumers to be served by the rehabili-
tated and expanded networks resulting from the project;
the proportion of households served in the three
cities is expected to rise from the present figure of
62 percent to 97 percent.
(iii) Risks
The project faces no special risks, but the reali-
zation of the benefits on the timescale envisaged will
depend on YGEC's ability to implement the project accord-
ing to schedule, including connection of all consumers
requiring service.
Estimated Cost:                                            US$ millions
Local    Foreign    Total    %
33-kV system                1.65       4.33        5.98    10
11-kV system                2.93       7.42       10.35    18
0.4-kV system               5.56      11.70       17.26    29
Vehicles, communication
equipment and meters    0.48         0.75       1.23      2
Engineering services        0.60        2.00       2.60      4
Training                    0.60        1.20       1.80      3
Rural electrification
study                     0.20       0.40       0.60      1
Base cost                  12.02      27.80      39.82    67
Contingencies:  Physical  1.11         2.37       3.48      6
Price    12.07        4.28      16.35    27
25.20      34.45      59.65   100
Financing Plan:                                            US$ millions
Local    Foreign    Total    %
Internal Sources
YGEC's own funds
(including customers'
contribution)              9.0         -         9.0      15
Government equity
contribution             12.2        0.4       12.6      21
Borrowing
Local bank(s)               4.0         -         4.0       7
IDA credit                   -        10.0       10.0      17
External cofinanciers        -        24.0       24.0      40
Total                      25.2       34.4       59.6    100



Estimated
Disbursement:                                           US$ millions
IDA FY        1979     1980      1981      1982
Annual                     1.80     3.30      3.80      1.10
Cumulative                 1.80     5.10      8.90    10.00
Rate of Return:        15.8 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2006a-YAR
Dated May 30, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA






THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
P'EPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $10 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a Power Distribution project. The
proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by the Government to YGEC at an
interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum for a period of twenty years including
five years grace. The YAR Government is exploring with other external sources
the provision of $24 million equivalent towards the cost of the project, under
parallel financing arrangements.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, was distributed
to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. A basic economic mission
visited YAR in October 1977 and its report is under preparation. The findings
of the mission are reflected in this section. Country data are attached in
Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socio-economic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new Republican Government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time, the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome. Central Government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  In 1973 the Government launched a Three-Year Development Program
(1973/74-1975/76) which susbsequently was implemented largely with the help
of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the physical infra-
structure was expanded and telecommunication links were built; first attempts
were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its
medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
1/   Identical to Part 1 of the President's Report for the Tihama Development
Project II which was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 8,
1978 (Credit approved on May 18, 1978).



- 2 -
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that workers' remit-
tances rose from some $30 million in 1969/70 to over $800 million in 1976/77.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70 reaching a level of about $400 1/ in
1976/77. While these developments, together with fast-growing government
expenditures for both investment projects and public services, have greatly
alleviated Yemen's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural under-
employment, they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the
future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 20 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the Government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This seriously limits the absorp-
tive capacity of the public administration.
7.        The gap between public and private salaries has been widened by a
narrow tax base and by inflation which averaged some 30 percent per annum in
recent years. Inflation also creates distortions in resource allocation and
income distribution, and weakens the savings propensity of the private sector.
The major sources of inflation have been a fast-growing demand for goods and
services as well as physical constraints on imports, especially congestion
in the Port of Hodeida. Domestic demand has been fuelled by workers' remit-
tances; by a deficit in the Government's financial transactions; and more
recently, by an acceleration of bank credit to the private sector.
8.        Another major issue the Government faces at present, is to assure
the rational allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources.  During
the past when funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely
lacking, the authorities found it relatively easy to select high-priority
projects such as establishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing
modern education, building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories.
With the rapid growth in development spending, however, the range of choices
is increasing very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of indi-
vidual projects will not always be as obvious as in the past.
1/   Tentative estimate; official figure is $250 per capita, as shown in
Annex 1 and based on World Bank Atlas methodology for the period 1974-76.



9.        Yet, the new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements
in development, remarkable as they are, should not distract from the fact
that YAR continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country.
Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which
occupies about three-fourths of the resident labor force. This reflects the
very limited investment in physical capital made so far as well as the pre-
dominance of traditional skills. Nine out of ten adult persons are illiterate
and only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary schools. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part of whom in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical
constraints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are both scarce and few mineral deposits have
been discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The Government is fully aware of these issues--old as well as new
ones--and willing to address them with all the means at its disposal. This
is reflected in the Government's development objectives as outlined in the
first Five-Year Development Plan for the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on
the achievements of the Three-Year Program, the new Plan endeavors to further
develop the country's human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical
infrastructure; to raise the productivity of the commodity producing sectors;
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs for food, health services, education, water supply and other com-
munity services. To achieve its objectives the Government has launched an
impressive investment and manpower training program which it intends to carry
out in close cooperation with foreign donors of capital and technical assis-
tance. While continuing to rely on a market-oriented economic system the
authorities foresee increasing collaboration between the public, cooperative
and private sectors.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be US$3.5
billion. Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about US$150 per capita), the steep increase
in investment proposed by the Plan raises questions of technical feasibility
and economic viability.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the Government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, sponsored by IDA,
which will ease congestion in Hodeida and improve facilities in other ports
of entry. The project is designed to meet YAR's requirement for port capacity
up to 1985. The resulting unrestricted flow of imports should reduce present



supply shortages thus easing inflationary pressure. In addition, measures
have been taken, in consultation with the IMF, to reduce the budget deficit
and to restrict the expansion of bank credit to the private sector. Encour-
aging results are also being achieved in education and manpower training.
Enrollment in primary and secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs
in technical and vocational training have been started. The University of
Sana'a, established in 1970, now has close to 3,000 students, many enrolled
in technical disciplines. A large number of Yemeni students (about 2,300)
also receive training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8-9 percent a year between 1969/70 and
1975/76. Not surprisingly, economic growth was strongest in the modern
sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of
government services, of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid
increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising
vegetables, fruits and chickens. Subsistence agriculture, still the most
important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace (about 3 percent
per annum).
15.       When interpreting these trends one has to remember that 1969/70
fell into the middle of a prolonged drought period. Agricultural growth,
especially in the subsistence sector, therefore reflects in large measure
higher levels of precipitation in the final year (1975/76). If this factor
is eliminated one can conclude that agricultural expansion was essentially
confined to cash crops while subsistence farming just about held its ground
and possibly even declined marginally.
16.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year. Program and the Five-Year Plan the Government
increased its development spending from YR 57 million ($13 million) in 1972/73
to YR 340 million ($76 million) in 1975/76.
17.       Although the period since 1970 is relatively short, it has witnessed
perceptible changes in the structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern



- 5 -
agriculture, trade, transport and government services in GDP have all increased
during the 1970s while that of subsistence agriculture declined from over 40
percent in 1969/70 to less than one third in 1975/76. But even so, YAR's
economy is still very much underdeveloped. The contribution of cash farming
and industry (including construction) to GDP is still less than that of sub-
sistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
18.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years, has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the
fast growing investment level. In 1975/76, gross national savings reached the
equivalent of 24 percent of GNP compared with only 10 percent in 1971/72.
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, it must be borne in mind that the high savings rate was
perhaps as much the result of fortuitous circumstances as of deliberate poli-
cies. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes, together
with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning from Saudi
Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent which may not
be perpetuated in future years.
19.       Virtually all of YAR's national savings are being generated by the
private sector while the government sector has had negative savings in the
past. This was mainly the result of a narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in
1975/76) which did not allow the public sector to capture an adequate share
of the country's growing money incomes. Shortage of tax revenue has also
restricted the expansion of essential public services such as education,
public health and maintenance programs for existing capital stock.
20.       So far the inadequacy of current revenue has not held back public
investment. Generous foreign aid has enabled the Government to finance all
projects and programs which it could effectively handle. Moreover, cash
grants provided by Saudi Arabia have helped to ease the burden of current
expenditures. Although foreign aid is likely to be available in the foresee-
able future, it will have to be gradually replaced by domestic resources if
the country is to become more self-reliant. The longer term objective of
fiscal policy therefore should be to raise sufficient local revenue that the
current budget can be balanced and a significant contribution can be made to
the financing of government capital expenditures.
21.       Significant progress has already been made in this respect during
recent years. Current domestic revenue has risen from 73 percent of current
expenditure in 1972/73 to 94 percent in 1975/76, while the current deficit has
declined both in real and absolute terms. During 1976/77 the current budget
was approximately balanced and for 1977/78 a moderate surplus is expected.
These are remarkable achievements for a country of Yemen's early state of
development.
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current



- 6 -
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the Government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the close and friendly relations that
YAR has established with Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil exporting nations
whose vast and still growing wealth is spilling over into YAR in the form of
workers' remittances and aid flows.
23.       Yemen's commodity exports are still extremely low reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  During 1973/74-1976/77 they averaged approximately $15 million a
year, or the equivalent of about 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agri-
cultural origin with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodi-
ties. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $730 million in 1976/77. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen Rial,
and the absence of import restrictions. The increase would have been even
stronger had there not been physical constraints - particularly in the Port
of Hodeida - to transport foreign goods into the country.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached about $710 million in 1976/77, almost four times as large as
in 1973/74. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. Net earnings from ser-
vices have grown even faster in recent years than the trade deficit. As a
result, the balance on current account which was in deficit until 1974/75,
recorded its first surplus in 1975/76 ($130 million) which rose to $175 mil-
lion in 1976/77.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least developed country", most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessional loans. Although a complete over-view of all assis-
tance received by the YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can
be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by
the end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3
years.
26.       About 3/5 of the total assistance given so far was provided in the
form of non-reimbursable grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and
more recently, budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World
Food Program and a number of bilateral donors. A large part of official
grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given
the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high
priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides
the grants YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits.
Total commitments exceeded $547 million on June 30, 1977 about half of which



has been disbursed. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years,
averaging $47 million in 1975/76 and 1976/77. More than three quarters of
all official loans and credits have been committed for the financing of
specific projects with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including
irrigation, and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which the YAR has obtained official loan assistance
have been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of
China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries
have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent but Arab
commodity assistance has been interest-free. Loan maturities generally range
from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       Yemen's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1977 was esti-
mated at $529 million, of which $292 million was disbursed. The major creditors
were IDA, USSR, China, Germany, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits
accounted for $110 million or about 20 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments are
estimated at only about $6 million for 1976/77, equivalent to less than one
percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances).
Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few years, the
burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation to YAR's
exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign exchange reserves.
At the end of June 1977 they reached $920 million or the equivalent of about
1 year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid and last but not least, the country's limited
absorptive capacity. Yemen's imports are still at a low level ($135 per capita
in 1976/77) and are likely to grow rapidly as present physical and administra-
tive bottlenecks are being overcome. Worker's remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change sub-
stantially within a relatively short time. Yemen's present comfortable reserve
position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded quickly if
recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The reserve posi-
tion has also to be viewed in the context of the country's dependence on agri-
culture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather. A repetition of the
severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would necessitate the import of
foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume adding substantially to the
country's foreign exchange requirements.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS I/
30.       The proposed credit would be the seventeenth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to $148.8 million. 2/ The utilization trend of the funds from
the ongoing credits has been fairly satisfactory. Disbursements in FY76 were
$10.8 million and in FY77 $19.2 million. At the end of the third quarter of
FY78, total disbursements were $50.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects, as of April 30, 1978.
31.       The major focus of the World Bank activity in YAR has been to develop
the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure, prerequisite for
development, and to begin lending in the dominant productive sector--agricul-
ture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of $200,000 to help finance, jointly
with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and
economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 to make
possible the continuation and expansion of the planning team services, was
approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of $120,000 to
provide for the continuation of the services of a planning team including
those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund joined
with a grant of about $425,000. The team has been and still is instrumental
in assisting the Central Planning Organization (CPO) in formulating its
development strategy, in preparing policies needed to implement the strategy
and in training Yemeni staff in the CPO. The Bank is also providing technical
assistance for institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture through the
services of seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.
32.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended three credits for highways for $28.2
million in 1972, 1976 and 1978. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
participated in the financing of the second project with $5 million equivalent.
To expand YAR's inadequate port facilities and to strengthen its management
capabilities, IDA approved in May 1977 a credit of $6 million for a port devel-
opment project. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development participated
with $8 million equivalent. IDA extended a credit for Water Supply in Sana'a
in 1974 for $6.3 million, a credit for Water and Sewerage in Hodeida in 1975
for $8.1 million, and in December 1976 a credit for the Second Sana'a Water
Supply and Sewerage Project for $10.0 million, all three of which support the
National Water and Sewerage Authority.  The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
1/   Substantially identical to Part II of the President's Report for the
Tihama Development Project II which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 8, 1978.
2/   Includes a credit of $11.5 million for a Highway III project (approved
on April 27, 1978) and a second credit of $10.5 million for the Tihama
Development Project II (approved on May 18, 1978) and a third credit of
$7 million for a Textile Rehabilitation project scheduled for Board
presentation on June 20, 1978.



- 9 -
Development contributed $21 million to finance the sewerage component in the
Hodeida project and $17.1 million to finance the water supply component in the
second Sana'a project. The Saudi Fund for Development provided $14.5 towards
financing part of the cost of the latter. To assist in the development of
education, IDA has extended two credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million,
which together with aid from UNDP, Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the
United Arab Emirates, financed expansion of teacher training and secondary and
vocational education; and the second for $8 million in 1976 which is a follow-
up to the first project. To develop infrastructure and production in YAR's
major sector, agriculture and agro-industries, IDA has made five credits. The
first credit of $10.9 million in 1973 was for the Tihama Agricultural Develop-
ment project, to which the Kuwait Fund contributed $6.4 million; to meet major
cost increases, the Kuwait Fund approved in 1975 a loan of $9.6 million to the
project, and IDA also approved a supplementary credit of $10.3 million in
March 1976. The second agricultural credit of $10.0 million was made for the
Southern Uplands Rural Development project in 1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund
participated with $10.0 million. The third credit of $5.2 million for a Grain
Storage and Processing project was approved in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for
Development joined with a loan of $11.0 million under parallel financing
arrangements. A fourth credit of $5.0 million for a Livestock Credit and
processing project was approved in October 1976. The Kuwait Fund ($11.6 mil-
lion), the Netherlands ($8.9 million) and the UK ($2.4 million) are partic-
ipating in the financing of the project under parallel financing arrangements.
A fifth credit of $10.5 million was approved in May 1978 for the development
of agriculture in Wadi Rima of the Tihama Region. A $2.3 million credit for
an Industrial Estate project was approved in 1974 and is designed to stimulate
investment in small-scale industry and provide a model for future industrial
development.
33.       Future World Bank activity will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agri-
culture and public utilities, help provide the necessary manpower training,
and continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment
program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to
be given to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring
the availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implemen-
tation. In keeping with this strategy, an agricultural project in Wadi Mawr
and an education project are being appraised, and a fisheries project, agri-
cultural projects in Wadi Surdud and in the Southern Uplands and a water
supply and sewerage project in the cities of Ibb and Dhamar are in the prep-
aration stage. The World Bank lending strategy recognizes that YAR is among
the 29 least-developed countries as classified by the U.N. and thus requires
special assistance, which justifies IDA financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures. Since project costs are in excess of the
limited IDA funds available, efforts have been made to obtain cofinancing from
other donors. In addition to its own commitments of $109.8 million, IDA has
also, since 1973, successfully played a catalytic role through its projects in
securing about $143.0 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors
(Arab Fund $38.1 million; Kuwait Fund $41.5 million; Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0



- 10 -
million; United Arab Emirates $8.0 million; Saudi Fund for Development $25.5
million; UNDP $6.6 million; FRG $0.58 million; the UK $2.4 million and the
Netherlands $8.9 million). YAR's level of poverty and the weak structure of
its balance of payments have in the past justified a large portion of local
currency financing by the Association; however, YAR has contributed an increas-
ing portion of local currency financing and is expected to continue to finance
a rising portion of its development expenditures in the future. Recently, the
Bank assisted the Government in establishing a Project Monitoring System to
ensure effective project implementation and to enable it to measure the
progress made against the set targets. The system is now under implementation
and the Bank has been requested by the Government to continue its assistance
in this field.
34.       The Executive Directors of the International Finance Corporation
approved on April 11, 1978 an investment of $3.15 million to help finance
a dairy and juice project. This is IFC's first activity in YAR.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
35.       A Bank energy sector mission which visited YAR in April 1976 pro-
vided the first detailed description of the sector, highlighted some of the
key constraints affecting development and identified the priority needs for
development. A report entitled "Memorandum on Power and Energy Sector, Yemen
Arab Republic" (No. 1234b-YAR) dated April 22, 1977 was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 17, 1977.
Energy Resources
36.       Although exploration efforts have increased in recent years, YAR is
lacking in exploitable commercial energy resources, such as oil, gas, coal or
hydropower. The only indigenous energy resources are the traditional fuels
of firewood and animal and agricultural wastes, characteristic of most agri-
culturally based developing countries.  The country is therefore completely
dependent on imported petroleum for its commercial energy requirements. Des-
pite a rapid increase in consumption in recent years, YAR is amongst the
lowest per capita consumers of commercial energy in the world, at only 30
kilograms standard coal equivalent (kgce) in 1974 (compare 360 kgce for the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen and an average of 390 kgce for all
developing countries).
Organization
37.       Various state entities are involved in the sector, under both the
Minister of Economy and the Minister of State for Minerals and Oil. The Yemen
Petroleum Company (YPC), established in 1962, is responsible for importing and
distributing petroleum products, but not for exploration, which is undertaken
by various foreign companies in accordance with Government concessions. The



- 11 -
Minerals and Petroleum Resources Authority (MPRA), created by Government
decree in 1973, is responsible for developing the country's mineral resources,
including petroleum and coal. Public electricity supply is the responsibility
of the Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC), established by Government
decree in 1975.
Investment
38.       The current YAR Five-Year Plan, covering the period 1976/77 -
1980/81, includes provision for investment expenditures in energy of about
$90 million (at 1976 prices) by YPC (mainly for increased storage capacity
and improved distribution facilities for petroleum products) and MPRA (for
surveys and exploration for energy sources). In addition, it provides for
investment of $190 million by YGEC in generation, transmission and distribu-
tion, so that total planned investment in the energy sector is about US$280
million, or about 15 percent of planned public investment over the period.
Electric Power Subsector
39.       Organization.  YGEC is a financially and administratively autono-
mous entity, charged with the responsibility for providing an efficient and
economical system of electricity supply in YAR. It has a full-time chairman
who reports directly to the Minister of Economy and a deputy chairman, plus a
board of nine members, all of whom are appointed by the Government. A general
manager is responsible for the day-to-day operations in accordance with poli-
cies laid down by the board of directors. During negotiations, the respective
responsibilities of the Chairman and the general manager were discussed and
agreed upon. There are also three regional managers in charge of regional
offices in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz. System planning is at present inadequate.
YGEC agreed to establish an effective system planning unit to monitor load
growth and prepare system development plans (Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
40.       Power Facilities.  In 1975, YGEC took over the generating facili-
ties and the associated distribution networks previously operated by three
independent private power companies in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, plus other
facilities in some smaller towns. The generating plants taken over totaled
16.8 MW (all diesel). The networks were in poor condition because of inade-
quate maintenance, partly attributable to the unsettled conditions during the
civil war in the 1960s and partly to lack of qualified technical staff. YGEC
has since added 6.5 MW of generating capacity (mainly diesel, plus some mobile
combustion turbines), raising the total installed capacity to 23.3 MW and the
available capacity to 19.3 MW.  A further 22.5 MW of diesel generating capac-
ity, partly financed by loans from the Arab Fund for Social and Economic
Development and the Saudi Fund for Development, is under construction and
scheduled for completion in 1978. The existing primary distribution systems
(15 kV in Sana'a and Taiz, 10 kV in Hodeida) are in urgent need of rehabilita-
tion as many substations are in a dangerous state, and the low-voltage net-
works in all three cities are already saturated and require reinforcement or
replacement. Under an Arab Fund loan, a start has been made on reinforcing
the distribution networks in the three cities with completion scheduled in



- 12 -
1978. Completion of this rehabilitation work and urgently needed distribution
expansion are the next critical component of the program and form the basis of
the proposed Project.
41.       Tariffs.  Electricity tariffs were unified in January 1975 for all
consumers of electricity in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz at YR 0.6 (USi 13) per
kWh in accordance with the first loan agreement between the YAR Government
and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development. This agreement further
provided for financing an electricity tariff study for YGEC to formulate
tariffs based on marginal costing principles. YGEC is contracting British
Electricity International Ltd. (BEI) to prepare the tariff study, work on
which is expected to begin in July 1978, with a draft report to be issued
about December 1978. YGEC agreed to furnish the Association with a copy of
this report and to afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment
on the recommendation of the report. YGEC also agreed to implement by July 1,
1979, the agreed recommendations of the study (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Consumption and Demand.  Between 1971 and 1977 consumption of elec-
tricity under the system now operated by YGEC rose from 14 GWh to 54 GWh,
representing an average annual growth rate of 26 percent, and maximum demand
rose from 4.8 MW to 16.9 MW (24 percent per annum). However, the average
growth rate of sales conceals wide annual fluctuations, which ranged from 21
percent to 32 percent during the period, and also differences between regions,
sales growing at only 16 percent per annum on average in Taiz compared with 26
percent in Sana'a and 28 percent in Hodeida. Despite the relatively rapid
growth of consumption, YAR remains near the bottom of the world scale in per
capita electricity consumption, which was only 18 kWh in 1977 (compare 105 kWh
in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, 230 kWh in Jordan, 250 kWh in
Syria and 31 kWh in Sudan). At present there is a large suppressed demand
because of generating capacity limitations, reflected in virtually daily load
shedding in Sana'a for example, during the peak-load hours. YGEC agreed to
introduce operational procedures to monitor the trend of electricity demand
for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural and other purposes and
to convey periodically to IDA starting by September 30, 1979 and until the
completion of the project, the results of its monitoring (Section 3.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).
43.       Manpower and Training.  YGEC has an approved establishment of 940
positions, of which 888 were filled at end-1977. The level of staffing for
technician and higher technician grades seems appropriate, but there may be
some overmanning in the clerical grades. The position of general manager was
filled in March 1978, and the situation regarding other vacancies was discus-
sed during negotiations and assurances were given by YGEC to fill the key
positions as soon as possible. Because of the severe shortage of trained
personnel in YAR (mainly caused by migration to neighboring oil-producing
countries), the corporation is heavily dependent on expatriates, of whom there
are 25 at present in senior positions; most of them are from Arab countries
and appear to be well-qualified. The senior engineering staff, supplied by
the UK Government on fixed appointment terms, are competent and very expe-
rienced. Only 20 Yemeni nationals occupy positions of responsibility, mostly



- 13 -
in foreman/supervisory grades. YGEC will remain heavily dependent on expa-
triates in its senior management ranks over the next few years, particularly
in view of the planned big expansion program.
44.       Adequate training arrangements are a high priority if YGEC is to be
able to staff its organization with suitably qualified personnel to meet the
expected rapid growth of demand on its system. A start has been made with the
establishment of basic training courses in Sana'a under an expatriate training
officer. At present these are held in temporary premises, but a permanent
training center is now being set up under an agreement with Electricite de
France, to be financed jointly by the Government and French bilateral aid.
When fully operational in 1980, this will cater adequately for YGEC's future
needs for skilled workers and technicians. YGEC's training program and selec-
tion procedures for the overseas training of Yemeni nationals for higher level
engineering, managerial and accountancy positions, and for retraining in YAR
of accounting, stores and procurement personnel were discussed and agreed upon.
It was also agreed that YGEC will submit to the Association by January 1, 1979
a detailed training program for its comments and that they will carry out such
a program thereafter (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). About
$700,000 of the proposed credit would be allocated for these purposes.
45.       Development Program.  Due to the very low level of energy supplies
currently available and to the rapid growth of the YAR's economy, energy sales
are forecast to rise from the 1977 level of 54 GWh to 676 GWh in 1985, and
demand from 16.9 MW to 167.6 MW, representing average annual growth rates of
37 percent and 33 percent. To meet the projected load growth, YGEC plans to
install an additional 135 MW of generating capacity in 1979-1983, comprising
a 3 x 20 MW steam power station near Hodeida, 50 MW of diesel and combustion
turbine sets in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz, and 25 MW of diesel/combustion tur-
bine capacity in rural load centers. The development program also provides
for about 200 km of 132-kV double circuit transmission line, with 160 MVA of
associated substations, to connect Sana'a and Hodeida to the 30 x 20 MW steam
station, plus 33-kV links from this line to the towns of Amran and Bajil. In
addition, there is the program for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
existing distribution networks, of which the proposed project would represent
the 1979-81 time slice. The development program will place heavy demands on
YGEC, particularly in view of the relative lack of staff experienced in steam
generation and transmission projects. YGEC will be heavily dependent there-
fore on consultants for the execution of the program.
46.       Financing the Development Program.  The proposed development
program will require an investment of about $228 million in the fiscal years
1978-83, including contingencies. Of this, some $63 million (28 percent)
will be financed by existing Arab Fund and Saudi Fund loans for the steam
station and transmission facilities; net internal resources of YGEC are
expected to provide about $32 million (14 percent). The proposed IDA credit
of $10 million would finance about 4 percent of the total cost. The balance
is expected to be made up of about $48 million (21 percent) from bilateral
aid, $10 million (4 percent) from local banks and $65 million (29 percent) in
the form of Government equity contributions. The estimated contribution from
YGEC's internal resources assumes maintenance of the existing flat-rate tariff



- 14 -
of YR 0.6/kWh (USil3) through 1981, but that the average selling price per
kWh will then increase to YR 0.68 in 1982 and YR 0.75 in 1983.
47.       Power Subsector Constraints.  The major constraint in the power
subsector is the inability of the present YGEC system to meet the potential
demand because of inadequate generating capacity and the poor state of the
distribution networks. The shortage of generating capacity will be overcome
as a result of the construction program now under way, and the distribution
networks will be refurbished and expanded to meet the expected demand at an
acceptable standard of service as a result of the planned 1979-83 distribution
investment program. Issues relating to planning, manpower and electricity
tariffs would be addressed under the proposed project. On the financial side,
the main problem is the very high level of borrowing assumed for the financing
of the fiscal years 1978-83 construction program, resulting in an average debt
to equity ratio of 65/35, which is somewhat higher than desirable. However,
because of the favorable debt service coverage (1.75) for the period 1978-1983,
YGEC would have little difficulty in servicing the additional debt that would
result from the Government on-lending of the proceeds of the proposed IDA
Credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
48.       A feasibility study by consultants financed by the Arab Fund was
completed at the end of 1975, setting out the construction program recom-
mended for 1975-80. A sector review/identification mission in April 1976
discussed with the Government the scope of IDA's financial assistance towards
this program. Consultants (Kennedy & Donkin, UK) were engaged to carry out a
feasibility study, which was completed at the end of October 1977. The proj-
ect was appraised in December 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington on
May 15 and 16, 1978. The Yemeni delegation was led by Dr. Mohamed Al-Ariki,
Deputy Chairman of the Central Planning Organization. A report entitled
"Yemen Arab Republic, Power Distribution Project, Staff Appraisal Report"
(No. 2006a-YAR) dated May 30, 1978 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the project are discussed in the
Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is
attached to the report.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The project which represents IDA's first involvement in the energy
sector in YAR is aimed at improving and expanding the existing electricity
distribution networks in the three main cities of Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz.
It would also enable the Association to assist in strengthening the institu-
tional development of the power subsector from an early stage of YGEC's
existence in accordance with sound procedures and thereby assist YGEC to
develop into a strong and effective public service organization. Technical



- 15 -
assistance would therefore be provided under the project for improving YGEC's
organization and efficiency through the provision of consulting services in
engineering and for training of its staff.
50.       The project comprises the 1979-81 slice of YGEC's distribution
investment program for fiscal years 1978-83, covering the rehabilitation and
expansion of the existing distribution networks in Sana'a, Hodeida and Taiz.
It includes: (i) the supply and erection of about 70 km of 33-kV overhead
lines and underground cables, plus about 160 MVA of 33/11-kV substations;
about 125 km of 11-kV lines and cables, and about 100 MVA of 11/0.4-kV sub-
stations; about 375 km of 0.4-kV lines and cables; and 40,000 of new and
rehabilitated consumer connections; (ii) the supply of service vehicles, com-
munication equipment and electricity meters; (iii) engineering services for
final project design and specifications; (iv) construction consultant services
to assist YGEC in project execution; (v) provision for a rural electrification
study to identify priority investments in rural areas; and (vi) a training
program for engineering, management and accountancy. As part of the engineer-
ing work, the consultant is carrying out an engineering study which defines
the basic system configuration and parameters in each town in relation to the
load forecast and the future system development. This study includes economic
evaluation of alternatives and covers: (a) main feeder routing and configura-
tion (overhead versus underground); (b) standard substation configuration and
loading criteria; (c) standard transformer size selection; (d) evaluation of
design alternatives for voltage and proposed conductor sizing based on economic
selection criteria; and (e) identification of alternatives and selection of
procedures for rehabilitating/replacing service connections, including meters.
YGEC has agreed to discuss the results of the study with IDA before proceeding
with final detailed specifications (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Detailed engineering and construction supervision would be the respon-
sibility of field engineering staff using the definitive criteria resulting
from the study.
Project Implementation
51.       YGEC will be responsible for implementing the project, using its
consultants (Kennedy & Donkin, UK) to handle the engineering on the basis of
Terms of Reference satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.04 of the draft Project
Agreement). The equipment will be installed under construction contracts,
which will provide for the training of YGEC personnel to enable them to under-
take similar work in future. YGEC has agreed to establish an effective
Distribution Department to be responsible for the technical planning and
execution of distribution works (Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
For execution of the proposed project, this Department will be assisted by a
construction consultant, whose terms of reference have been agreed with IDA
(Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement). The status of appointment of
the chief financial controller and other vacant positions was discussed during
negotiations. YGEC is seeking assistance from British Electricity Inter-
national (BEI) to obtain the services of a qualified candidate for the post
of chief financial controller and will make every effort to fill this position
by July 1, 1978. Assistance is also being sought from BEI and the Electricity
Supply Board of Ireland for qualified staff to assist YGEC in the execution
of its operations. The project will be executed over the three-year period



- 16 -
1979-81, with rehabilitation (Phase A) and expansion (Phase B) each taking
two years, with one year overlap between them.
Cost Estimate
52.       The estimated cost of the project, excluding interest during con-
struction, is $59.6 million with a foreign exchange component of $34.4
million. The total cost of the project represents about 26 percent of YGEC's
investment program for the fiscal years 1978-83. Estimates for civil works
are based on the cost of recent similar works in YAR and neighboring Arab
countries; equipment and material estimates are based on late 1977 inter-
national prices. The estimate includes an average allowance of about 10 per-
cent for physical contingencies. Annual price contingencies ranging from 35
percent in 1978 to 15 percent in 1981 for civil works (local currency), and
from 7 percent to 6 percent for equipment and materials (foreign costs), have
been included to meet expected inflation over the implementation period. The
Project cost does not include any customs duties or taxes, from which YGEC is
exempt.
Financing Plan
53.       The proposed IDA credit of $10 million would finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of $34.4 million and is about 17 percent of total
project costs. The credit would be extended to the Government of YAR, which
would relend the proceeds to YGEC at 7.5 percent per annum, with repayment
over twenty years, including five years grace. YGEC will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
54.       Other sources of finance include YGEC's internally generated funds
of about $9 million (15 percent), loans from local banks of about $4 million
(7 percent) and Government equity contributions of about $12.6 million (21
percent). The balance of 40 percent, amounting to $24 million, would be
financed from other bilateral sources. The Government is exploring with
several bilateral and multilateral sources the possibility of providing the
balance with a view to achieving the most reasonable terms. During negotia-
tions, the Government delegation indicated that in view of the importance that
the Government attaches to this project, the Government would be prepared to
cover the financing gap from its own resources should funds from other co-
financiers not be forthcoming. The signing of loan agreement(s) between the
Government and other cofinancier(s) is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA credit (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Details of the cost estimates and financing are given in the Credit
and Project Summary.
Financial Position and Performance
55.       Financial Position.  After satisfactory results in its first year of
operation ending June 30, 1976 (12 percent return on average net fixed assets
in operation), YGEC suffered a loss in fiscal 1977, mainly because of badly
needed salary increases to maintain competitiveness with salaries paid to
Yemeni nationals working in neighboring oil-producing countries. A further



- 17 -
deterioration is expected in fiscal 1978 as a result of an additional 33
percent increase in salaries and a costly maintenance program for existing
generating plant. Heavy distribution losses (20-25 percent in Sana'a, Hodeida
and Taiz) and frequent load shedding limit YGEC's sales and revenues.
56.       Financial Forecasts.  With the additional generating capacity being
installed and the existing selling price per kWh of YR 0.6 (about USd13) the
rate of return on average net fixed assets in services for fiscal year 1979 is
estimated at 5 percent. Assuming that the tariff is maintained at the present
rate until fiscal year 1981 (the last year of the project construction period)
the rate of return could increase to approximately 9 percent for fiscal years
1980 and 1981 (an 8 percent rate of return is required by the provisions of
the loans from the Arab Fund); these rates assume a revaluation of assets at
10 percent per annum commencing in 1980. To meet the internal cash generation
required in the proposed financing plan, it is estimated that YGEC would need
to earn an average rate of return on revalued assets of 8 percent through
fiscal year 1983 which would require YGEC to increase present tariffs about 13
percent to YR 0.68/kWh in fiscal year 1982 and about 10 percent to YR 0.75/kWh
in fiscal year 1983. The financing plan assumed for the construction program
for fiscal years 1978 through 1983 assumes a very high level of borrowing.
YGEC's debt to equity ratio for 1978-1981 would average about 65/35 which is
somewhat higher than the desired level and is above the present requirement of
the Arab Fund loan that the debt to equity ratio should not exceed 50/50.
However, the ratio improves by 1982, approaching the desired level of 50/50.
To meet the terms of the existing loan agreements of the Arab Fund for the
debt to equity ratio will require either that YGEC reduce its construction
program during 1978 through 1983, consequently requiring less financing (but
also reducing YGEC's ability to meet consumers' needs and demands), or that
the Government will have to increase its equity contributions to YGEC to
relieve the company's long-term borrowing requirements. Forecast debt service
coverage including the debt service on the on-lending of the proposed IDA
credit is satisfactory, averaging 1.75 compared with the Arab Fund requirement
that it should not be less than 1.5. Because of the favorable debt service
coverage, YGEC would have little difficulty in servicing the additional debt
arising from the on-lending of the proposed IDA credit.
57.       Audit.  YGEC's accounts are generally in accordance with accounting
practices of public utilities. Internal auditing is performed under the Chief
Financial Controller according to a regular schedule. The accounts are
audited by qualified external auditors and YGEC has agreed to continue to
appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA and to submit audited financial
statements to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year (Section
4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       Financial Covenants.  YGEC agreed that the debt service coverage
would not be less than 1.5 in 1979 and thereafter (Section 4.04(a) of
the draft Project Agreement), and not to undertake during the project con-
struction period any capital expenditure in addition to that included in the
present program in any one year in excess of $500,000 without presenting
satisfactory evidence to IDA that the investment would not adversely affect
its financial position (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). YGEC



- 18 -
also agreed on the method for revaluing fixed assets, beginning in fiscal
1980. YGEC agreed that it should earn a minimum return on average net fixed
assets of 8 percent beginning in 1980, and that any shortfall in a year would
be made up within the next two years; an overrun would be applied to offset
any shortfall in one or more of the next three years (Section 4.03(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). It was agreed that YGEC would submit to IDA by the
end of each fiscal year a review of the earnings for the fiscal year ended,
and the measures proposed to be taken to secure the required annual rate of
return for the next year.
Procurement
59.       Purchases under the proposed IDA credit would be made in accordance
with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement, and would be based on interna-
tional competitive bidding. International shopping, however, would be per-
mitted, up to a total amount of $750,000, for items where standardization or
special equipment is required and for which IDA agrees that this would be more
economic and efficient than international competitive bidding.
Disbursements
60.       Disbursements would extend over about 3-1/2 years, in accordance
with the estimated disbursement schedule given in the Credit and Project
Summary.  The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for the items to be financed out of the credit. No
advance contracting or retroactive financing is expected.
Environmental Aspects
61.       Since the project is for electricity distribution, it will not have
any pollution effects on the environment. The underground cable component
will have no adverse effect on visual amenity, and amenity considerations will
be taken into account in routing overhead lines. The project will enhance the
social environment through the provision of street lighting in residential
areas at present without electricity service.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The proposed project has two aspects--rehabilitation of the exist-
ing distribution networks in Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz, and expansion of these
facilities. The rehabilitation phase will bring about a reduction in the
present high rates of distribution losses, as well as an improvement in the
quality of service, while the expansion phase will make it possible to extend
electricity supplies progressively. The beneficiaries will be the existing
and new consumers, including the large backlog (over 12,000) of applicants for
connection, to be served by the improved and extended distribution facilities;



- 19 -
the proportion of households served in the three cities is expected to rise
from the present figure of 62 percent to 97 percent. Least-cost solutions
have been adopted, or will be adopted as detailed design proceeds, in the
choice of Project facilities where alternatives exist. The rate of return on
the project is estimated to be 15.8 percent, based on the measurable costs and
benefits, and assuming the existing flat-rate tariff of YR 0.6/kWh. If the
sales to non-industrial consumers are valued at YR 0.75/kWh, which evidence
of prices actually paid for non-public supplies of electricity suggests is
the minimum measure of these consumers' willingness to pay, the return rises
to about 22 percent. With capital costs 15 percent higher, the return would
fall to about 11 percent, and at 20 percent higher fuel costs to about 12 per-
cent. Assuming a two-year lag in the forecast build-up of sales to saturate
the project facilities, the rate of return would be about 11 percent. Further-
more, through the provision of technical assistance and training, the project
would assist YGEC to develop into a strong and effective public sector orga-
nization.
63.       There are no special risks associated with the project, but realiza-
tion of the benefits on the time scale envisaged will depend on YGEC's ability
to implement the project as scheduled, including connection of all consumers
requiring service in step with the completion of project facilities. This is
especially important in this project in view of the large suppressed demand
and resulting high load growth expected in the period covered by the project.
YGEC has agreed to make arrangements satisfactory to IDA to monitor carefully
the actual development of demand and to review the situation with IDA in 1979,
so that the expansion program can be modified if this should be warranted.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the Yemen General Electricity Corporation, and the recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Section 5.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement provides the following conditions of effective-
ness: (i) signing of loan agreement between the Government and cofinancier(s)
to cover the financing gap, (ii) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and YGEC to govern the on-lending terms of the IDA
proceeds from the Government to the YGEC, and (iii) the execution of the
Project Agreement.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 20, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                  Page   1  of  4
YEMEN ARAB REP        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEETg
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                     ------------------------
---------------                        ~~~~YEMEN ARAa REP                      REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       195.0                                           MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       15.2                          1960       1970   ESTIMATE             AFGHANISTAN    NEPAL             JORDAN**
--   - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  -      - - -  - - -         - -  - -      -   -  - -
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)...                                            250.0k               100.0*        70.0*       320.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION )MtO-YR. MILLION)                            5.5**      6.0**               12.3         11.3          2.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                                      28.0        31.0                 19.0        80.0         24.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                      362.0      395.0                 36.0        284.0        165.0
VITAL STATISTICS           U    V                      05/          584.                             47          4.
CRUDE BIRTH RATE f/THOU.A).                          05I         584.                                           7
CRUDE DEATH RATE f/THOU.AV)                *.       24.1 1w    26.9                  27.6         24.6         17.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE f/THOU)             ..          ..- 159.0                        ..      200-300        36.3 /a,b,a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH fYRS)             ..         ..       37.0                 37.8         40.6         50.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .         3.5,        3.5                  3.4          3.0          3.5
POPULATION C1OWJTH RATE                                  ..        i**/222131
TOTAL                                                           1  **                  .            .            .
URBAN                                      ..         ..         8.0                  5.2          3.9
URBAN POPULATION (If OF TOTAL)                                     7.0                 10.7          4.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YE-ARS                         43.3        44.1       46.8                 43.2                      47. /
is TO 64 YEARS                          54.0        53.2       49.7                 54.2                      49. .
65 YEARS AND OVER                        2.7         2.7         3.5                  2.6           ..3.571a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9        0.9         1.0                  0.6           .            .0 /a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    .                     2.2/b                  ...2. 4 71a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS !CUMULATIVE, THOU)              B...                    ...                              6.5
USERS (If OF MARRIED WOMEN)                .                                             
EMP LOYM ENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)I.                                  1140.0 /IC.                                     350.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (7)..                         .        73.o7E                                         33.0~
UNEMPLOYED 1% OF LABOR FORCE)                ..         4. ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS...                                      ...
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS...                                      ...
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS...                                      ...
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS...                                      ...
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
If OWNED BY TOP icIf OF OWNERS               .            ..                               
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS               .            ..                               
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              143500.0   31340.0   23260.0                 14080.0    49770.0/a   2680.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                ..          ..16830.0                 21060.0      35600. 071a,b 1050. 0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED                                    2060 .0                            6750.0O       960.D
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (If OF REQUIREMENTS)           82.0        71.0       83.0                  80.0         94.0         94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 65.0        62.0       58.3                  56.0         52.0        60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               ..       14.6/b    14.1                   11.0         11.0        16.0/e
DEATH RATE f/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ..          ..         ......                                        5.0/b
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHiOOL                          8.0        10.0       23.0                  2i.o/a       26.0         73.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         0.2         1.0         2.0                  6.07 .Ta                33.071a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   ..       12.0        12.0                 12.0         10.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(If OF SECONDARY)                          ..        2.2         3.0                  4.0          6.0          3.0/a,f
ADULT LITERACY RATE (51                    10.0          .        10.0                  10.0        14.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                     ..          ..        3.0                    .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I).                                                90.5                 97.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(If OF ALL DWELLINGS)                      ...                   4.6                   .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY fIf)                        ...                   1 .3..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)               .                     13.0                 21.0         85.0       160.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)                ..          ..          ..3.0                            0.4          7.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                2.0         3.0         7.0                 32.0          6.0        72.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     ..         ..          ..0.'1                            ..0.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 22 -
ANN)EX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
mnless orbertoo  noted, d-a  for 1960 refer to aoy year batwoan 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 sod 1970, and for Host Recent Esti.ate between
1973 Jadq5.
CNP per capita data are based on the derld Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis)
PopulatLon iociod-o rot/dnto 1i{vng  abroad Ahich is  -otinatod at 1.2  illi-o   '  1915.
Doe to  eigratIon population growth rate in l,wer than the rats of nantral incresne
Jordan  boo heer neLected 00 an objo-tiv-  rountry far Yenen Arab Repablio tince both are Arab nounrriet with sinflar  -oanoio systems; have no
iport . t nlneral ren.ourceo, ...on e    -rge  nubers of onigrants chaos ronittanroa   .bhstooti.lly finanoo thb  import bill, snd both depend an
_oretgo  "1  to sop port Iargn portion.  of theft-  _rneot end go-e -rnmnt -np-ndit-re.
YEEN AAB RfEyP       1971    oi  Esimated birth snd dosth r-te-  for 1970 aro 47.3 and 28.7 rnnpectively;    /b  1964-66.
M()Sl RECtiTF EST7MATE /E   1972-75;    /b  Ratio of retident population under 15 and 65 and aver to total Iabor force;
Ln tabor forts relates to resident papolation of 4.7 million  only
AFGHUIISTAN          1977    /s  Poblin educatiom  only;    /b  Parcentage af population.
MEPOL                197f    /'a  Porsonnel in government seroinas;    /b  Including midwivs.
JORD0 N              1970    /a  Efet 8aok only;    lb  1966;    /c  Registered only;    /d  hatio of population mnder 15 and 65 and aver to total
labor forno;    /n  1964-66;    /f  Inoluding LNRtwA shools.
R4, MParh 27, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Are- (thou kr__                                                                        Population Aer mtrait  perona  - Pnpulstion divided by number of prsotineg
Tot.l - Total surface sres conprisnln  land srea and inland wanre                              ma.le and fele graduate nurses, "tr-ined" nr "certifi-d"  ar.ess, and
aric. - Mast recent netimate of agricultural ares used temporarily or Pee-a-                  assiliary per-snnel with tratiing or enperlenc.
meetly ftr rropa  pa -turee ,arket & kihthen gardens or to lie fallow.                     P          pt r b hoepitn1 bed - Pepalation divided by suber of hospitel beds
av  bllal  In pablis and pnirste general and apeilaiied haspit.1 and
CGNP per nanita (0101 - GbP pera cpita erttoostes atocurrent market prines,                    rahabilitatinosmcentrs  anladen nursing hnmes and sa tablisirnents fer
oslonlated by saoe  rnverel  mxthod ds Warld bSnk Atlas (1973-75 baaie);                     rastodial and preventive nare.
1960; 1976 and 1975 dots                                                                  Pe  aianel   f oslariec (Of2 -Sresiramnta) - Cnpsted fra energy
Peapir.t.    of net-Sad plies av ailable in .an.try par tapirs per day;
Poonlarios and vital statiotir:                                                                savileble nuppliec ctnprice doenstin praduotion, impsrts  iSas aeporst, and
PopI lstio  (etd-year million)   As of July first:  if not  -vailable, serage                 chsnges in stork; net spplien  -exlade ais.al feed, seeds, quantinies aced
of two eod-ynar re- t les ; 116f, 1970 and 1975 dats.                                        to food prores...ig asd lase  in diattLb" tlol; requiresente  ere  s -tieted
by FA0 based on physialogical needs for normal aIcivity snd health osnaid-
Popalotian density - per aquare In  - Mid-year population per square kilometer                 ering environmental teper-ture, abdy  nights, age and .e.  diatribtei-o   nf
(log bectares) of total ares.                                                               popalantio, and allewing 50% far wastes a  hosehold level.
Ponsletion densi tv -mDr  a- re Ins of oric. Isnd - Conpuced as sbone for                   Per .apits. seply of pratein (gres  pIr day) - Protein cntenee of per nepita
grirltora  land only,                                                                       ntopyofodpady;et  spp ly of food is defined as shav; rqsirr-
IIents for a1  oountriec established by v-SDA Ecaiot  Rge..rbh Slervi.e.
Vital qtstistic                                                                               provide far a minimum allowasce of 60 grase of tonal prorein per day, and
Crode birth rate per thounsand, soeraae - Annual itve births per thousand of                   20 graso of snimal and pl-c protein, of whh 10 grI      n  ahould be anim  l
old-year population; ten-year arithmetic average- ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are Ioer th-s  tho-r of 75 gra   of total protein
sod ftve-year averae en ding in 19175 fon mst recent estimate.                               sd 23 gras of animal protein an an -er-ge for ohs world, proposed by FA0
trde death rate Per thousand, sverage-unnu-l dectbs par thoosand of nid-year                   in the Third World Food Survey.
papslatieo; ten-year arith-etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and flee-                 Per otPita Protsin sepply Iraos animal smd plee - Peotein aspply of food
year average ending in 1975 fnr most recent estimate.                                        derived Sefs animls and pulse  in gr   per day.
Infant mortality rare  1/thon) - Anonul death  of infant- under one year of age             Death rate (/thou) ases 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age gremp 1-4
per thousand live  births.                                                                   year, to nildren in this  age group;'tugge-ted as en indttstsr at
Lif               t birh lye   - Average  ner of years     life r-sminiog at                   mIlnatrition
birth; .so.lly fiv--yesr average  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing  .o.ptries                                                                             Edura tin
Cross rerodrtionrate  -  -erage number of lire daughtrerswaean will bear                     Ad1vnted enrollment ratio - n1inry *chool - Enrollent of a11 agS  as per-
in her norIal reprodur-i-e period if she enperie.nes present age-spe-ific                    cen_age of primary school-age populatiop; inolades  hildren aged 6-Il years
fertility rttee; tans ly floe-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   bht adjuntsd far different lengths of primary eduanion; for testris with
far developing rqnstrics                                                                     usinersal education, enrollment nay neceed 100Y ainc- sGe pupils  re bhlsa
Ponslrtion   wteerh rate (TI - totsl -      (onpond enmual arouri rrat s of mid-year           or sbhae the Iffirial echonl  ga.
popslation fsr 1950-6f, 196_-7C  and 1970-75.                                              Adi-sted anrilnent ei .o - sco.ndary echool - Ctapuetd as above; .essndary
poesistion growtb rate (7,) - urbn - lCaputed like grwth rate af total                         edonation requires at least four years of approved pritary instruction;
papulation; different definition  of orb-a  areas Gsy *ffect romparability of                provides general, vocational or tesoher training in-t-  taisma for pupils
data amog countrics                                                                          of 12 to 17 years of age;  osre_pandeete entrees are geneeally  escluded.
Urban eoealstion (X nf total) - Ritio of urban to tetal populatin; different                 Years of sohooling  oprvided (first and second levels) - Total years of
dsfiinition   of orbas  areas may sfanct ropsrability of data DOag  bountrite.               erosling;  t secsndsry le-nt, vocaoioal i-toruntion may be psrtially or
rmpIstely  ..lsed
Aee stronturo Irerneot-   - Children (0-14 years), corking-age (15-64 yeart),                yatatbofal enrolLment (Y of s ndalry) - V.focational institutions inclds
sod retired (65 years acd o-r)  s Wprrentaget of mid-year population.                        techn1cal  Induatral or other proras  bhih operate indepedel   r a
Age dependency ratio - Rario of population under 15 and 65 and aovr to those                   drp_rusens  f nrcndsry institutions.n
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                     sdul literary  rate (%) - Literate adults (able to resd and write) as per-
frronlom  deneodsocy ratio - datio  tf population under 15 and 65 and over to                  nentage  of  total adult population aoed 15 yrars and over 
the labor fore in agi grouP Of 15-64 ye-r.
fatilo planning -sacre torn (cumulative. than) - Cumulstive numbenr of arreptort             foutini
of bhrth-control devicer  under  napli-n of na ional fsmily planning prortr                Persons per roanG (urban) - Average n umber of percon  per ro-m it  ocrupied
_n J ionsption.                                                                             ronentional  dwellings  in urban stesa; dcellingt e-lude ton-permanent
family el anning- uters (7, of tarrIed wsnon) - Percnen ngen of married vomen of               strur enres anld unocrapted parts.
nhild-b-artlg age (15-44 years) vhb  000 birtlh-rontrol devi-e   o all uarried             Occupied d.slliuto   aithont cid water 17- ) - Oncupied nonnnntional dwellings
vomen inl tr agn group                                                                       in orbaso and rurs1 areas without tn-ide or outside piped cater fanilrisa
tnrlorment                                                                                   Arrest to n1eotririor 0% of all dveLlingti  - Conoentionat dwellings sith
Total labor forre (rhoasand) - foononirally annive per-ant, inrluding armed                    elec-tririty in livlng quartersas percent of total dwstlings in urban and
forres and uns.ployed but eo-lding housevivs, student-, err.: definitiont                    rural arena
in various  ounti    o    not  _p_he                                                      i     d ln          -nerd to e1-tricity (7) - C-mps.ed a            .s ave far rIrs1
Lsbot fornr in agricultrte (X) - ogriultoral lIabor fror  (in farming, frestry,               dwellings only.
hooting and fishing) as perrertage of fatal Labor for_.
rneloyed (y af labor torte) - Unemployed are usually deti-od an prsons cho                   C-n-uptimon
are  able  and  lllinb to take a (oh  out of s job on a giv-r dsy, rinamed act           Radio re .ivers Pler that eop) - All type- of retainers far radis hro drasn
of a job, and seeking vork  pora  psnecified niniL        period not .e.e.ding one           to genera  pnblir per tho.sand of populatton; eaolud   n1 Instead receinera
neek  may not be  _onpacablo hetneenn ontrlec doe to different defiltitons                   in oontries  and in years ohen registration of radio sets was in effect
of unemployed sad sZoure of dsto, e.g., e_ploys nt offi-e -tatisticr, sample                 dsta  for recent years may not be oumpar.ble altos most cotntris abolished
surveys, ro_palnory unem.ploymgent inonrsnce                                                licensiog
Pasene oaslee  than enl-Passenger osrs tsprise metor tars satieg
_nn,qe dirtribcution-rPercenasge of privste i-o-e (both tn cash and kind)                      Loss than sight persons; erciuds abioa s , hearses sod military
rensioed by rriest 5I. rihst 207., poorost 20fy, and poorest 40b   of housr- .rhicles
bolds.                                                                                     ileotririty (kwh/yr per cap) - an.tal  -ccsption of industrial, npernial,
poblir and primate e1-t`rinity in bilowatt Soars part .pita, gen..rstly
Distribution of land enerohir -yPercentages  of Land w.ned by  esalthient 10%                  b sed  on production data, with-ut ale -nce for losses in grids but allw-
and poareat 107 of isad  isynern                                                            lng for imparts and exports of electricity.
nepsprInt (bk/yr per cap) - Per Iapita annual co,nlnpti-n in kilegrans
rolti nnprttscn                                                                                estimated fros doseti,c production plus net imports oE nesprint.
opltionper pholui from -    meiPcplati    dided by .nober at plrtiiog
phytinli-  qolitled f-es  a otdi-al nrh-oo -  -ro -oerlty i



- 23 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS           ANNEX I
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
US$ Min.    %
GNP at Market Prices         1,630     100
Gross Domestic Investment    260        16
Gross National Saving          390      24
Current Account Balance        130        8
Exportsof Goods, NFS            65        4
Importsof Goods, NFS           414      25
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value  Added       Labor Force   V. A. Per Worker
(US$Mlh)      x      Thous.  %      US $          %
Agriculture                  512       45       800   73        640         61
Industry                     117       10        90    8      1,300        123
Services                     522       45       200   19      2,610        247
Total/Average         1,151       100    1,090  100       1,056        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75        1975/76
- YR Millio                         n        of GP-----------------
Current Revenue                       199         277         381       565         8
Current Expenditure                   272         323         472       604         8
Current Deficit                       -73         -46         -91       -39        -1
Development Expenditures               57         139         185       340         5
External Assistance (net)             117         239         536       609         8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
-------------- June 30 -------------------------
1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977
------- (YR Million Outstanding End Period) -----
Money Supply                          348       489       640      964    2,028    3,516
Bank Credit to Gov't. Sector          103       102        70     -162      -407      -939
Bank Credit to Non-Gov't Sector       108       169       238      394       566    1,474
(Percentages of Index Numbers)
Money Supply as % of GNP               15        16        17       18        28
Consumer Price Index                   ..        ..      154       203       237       329
(1972 = 100) /1
Annual percentage increase2n:
Money Supply                         29        41       31        51       110        73
Consumer Price Index                 ..        ..       ..        32        17       39
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/   For Sana'a only (fiscal years)         2/  During fiscal year ending June 30.
Not available



- 24 -            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77
---------- Million US$ ----------
Exports of Goods, fob                 14        13        12        19
Imports of Goods, cif                194       258       382       730
Trade Deficit                       -180      -245      -370      -711
Non Factor Services, net              14        17        21        -3
Factor Income, net                   117       203       479       889
Workers' Remittances, net          112       191       457       842
Investment Income, net               5        12        22        47
Balance on Current Account           -49       -25       130       175
M & LT Capital, net                   62       126       158       146
Official Grants                     33        93       114       104
Official Loans, net                 29        33        44        42
Disbursements                     32        37        47        46
Repayments                        -3        -4        -3        -4
Other Capital, net 1/                 11        -3        -2       126
Increase in Reserves (-)             -24       -98      -286      -447
Gross Reserves (end fiscal
year)  2/                           89       187       473       920
EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1977          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
US $ Mln.                                 _
Total outstanding            529      Cotton and Cotton Products  59
of which disbursed         292      Coffee                         12
Hides & Skins                  12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-FOR 1976/77        All other commodities          17
Total                    100
Total outstanding
and disbursed              1        IBRD/IDA LENDING                 US$ mill.
(as of April 30, 1978)           IBRD  IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed          -  52.6
Through Feb. 1973                   Undisbursed                         -  57.2
Oustanding including
US $ 1.00 = YR  5.00                   Undisbursed                      - 109.8
YR   1.00 = US $0.20
Since Feb. 1973
US $ 1.00 = YR 4.50
YR   1.00 = US $0.22
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Central Bank holdings.
3/  Includes workers' remittances                                  May 24, 1978



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC /1
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of April 30, 1978 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                        (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose               IDA       Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                  7.7          0.1
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture   21.2 /2           5.8
421      1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education               11.0          3.9
464      1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply             6.3          2.0
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate         2.3          1.2
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development    10.0              7.6
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                  9.0          0.9
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage         8.1          5.4
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                 8.0          6.2
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing           5.2          4.3
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing       5.0          3.9
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage            10.0          9.9
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development          6.0          6.0
Total                                              109.8         57.2
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                              109.8
Total undisbursed                                                57.2
/1   Two credits of $11.5 million for a Third Highway Project and $10.5
million for a Tihama Development Project II were approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on April 27 and May 18, 1978, respectively. A third
credit of $7 million for a Textile Rehabilitation Project is scheduled
for presentation to the Executive Directors on June 20, 1978.
/2   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of April 30, 1978)
See para. 34.



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of $200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 equivalent to make possible the con-
tinuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with
a grant of about $300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of $120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund also joined with a grant of about $425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; $7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date:  January 15, 1973; Closing Date:  September 30, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project
have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included in
the project has been delivered. The road construction is expected to be com-
pleted in the latter part of 1978.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date:  September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end
of 1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed
specification drawings of all the required contracts. Nine contracts for
preliminary works including camps, access and field roads and extension
offices were awarded to local contractors. Six of them have already been
completed and one nearing completion. Three major contracts, one each for
the construction of diversion weir, canals and the regulating gates, were put
to international tendering. Construction work on the diversion weirs has been
completed, the regulating gates are being installed and the canal will be com-
pleted by October 1978. The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was established
towards the end of 1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF
have been appointed. ACF's operations in the project are highly satisfactory.
The total cost of the Project was revised to $40.8 million compared with $17.5
million at the time of initial appraisal. At the Government's request the
Association and the Kuwait Fund agreed to provide supplemental financing. The



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Kuwait Fund approved in December 1975 a supplementary loan of KD 2.8 million
and the Association approved on March 30, 1976 a $10.3 million supplementary
credit for the project. The reappraisal estimate of December 1978 for project
completion is expected to be met.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit
and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force, project implementation is now about 24 months
behind appraisal estimates. All site problems have been resolved. Construc-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with 80 percent of institutions anticipated
to be completed by October 1978. With the exception of one school, all equip-
ment and furniture contracts have been awarded and delivery has commenced.
The most critical aspects of the project are the difficulty to recruit expa-
triate and trained Yemeni staff for project institutions and the absence of
funds to finance technical assistance and fellowship costs formerly anticipated
from UNDP. The UNESCO Task Force is being phased out by December 1978, but
refinancing of some posts in critical areas would be necessary. The Associa-
tion and the Government are pursuing discussions with some bilateral agencies
in order to rectify this situation.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: September 28, 1979.
Civil works are virtually completed with only reservoir testing and
final site work remaining. The drilling and well construction program has
been completed and pipe laying is progressing.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
1975 as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal
estimate which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to
the unexpected increase in building costs that has taken place since project
appraisal. In the light of this cost increase and at the Government's
*        request, the Association agreed to retain the highest priority items in the
project. The Development Credit Agreement was amended accordingly. Con-
struction works started in February 1976. Two of the three buildings are
completed and the third is expected to be completed by end March 1978.  Many
entrepreneurs have already signed lease agreements with the Industrial Estate
Development Authority and are using the facilities. Other parties have showed
interest in either renting factory space or developed plots.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since the fall of
1976 progress has been encouraging. Project Management has improved and most
of the staff positions have been filled. Agricultural extension, veterinary
and credit activities are progressing very satisfactorily. Problems of cost
escalation will be met by reducing the number of loans that can be made to
farmers. Well drilling and the village water supply component has commenced.
A contract has been entered into with the Ministry of Public Works for the
rural road component. The ACF component is being implemented very satisfac-
torily.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority is being continued under the Third Highway Project.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Completion of the well drilling program has allowed for the imple-
mentation of remedial works and associated construction in the well fields.
The draft tariff study report has been submitted by the consultants. Govern-
ment's prompt decision to proceed with a reduced scope of works has permitted
the consultants to finalize tender documents for civil works, mechanical/
electrical and pipe installation.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Commendable progress has been made in the physical implementation
of this project which is proceeding on schedule. Completion of construction
is expected by June 1979. The Project Unit staff is supervising all construc-
tion. Preparation of bid documents for furniture and equipment for the eight
project institutions has been completed and bidding is anticipated shortly.
Following the establishment of the National Basic Training Board, an initial
deposit of $50,000 has been made to the Basic Training Fund. Disbursements
from the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily. Severe constraints have been
placed on achieving the educational objectives of the project due to lack of
progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for the
project institutions. The Government is aware of this serious situation and
discussions with bilateral agencies are being held.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976: Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The expatriate project manager and his local counterpart, had been
appointed prior to negotiations. Contract negotiations with the engineering
firm Oscar Faber have been completed and the firm has commenced work on the
project. The sites for the silo, the Government bakeries and the warehouses
have been acquired and properly demarcated and the preparation of the silo
site at Hodeida has commenced. Four Yemenis are undergoing undergraduate
training in the USA and two are presently undergoing non-graduate training
in the UK in financial management. Bids for the silo, warehouses and bakeries
are being evaluated. Project implementation remains on schedule. A silo
superintendent and an accountant (both local) have been appointed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project manager and practically all expatriate staff are in the
field together with the Co-Manager and some counterparts. Cost escalation
was resolved in a meeting of co-financiers in London in October 1977 by reduc-
tion and/or reorientation of some components without changing the project
concept. Government sites for the two dairy farms, two slaughterhouses and
the fattening farm have been secured and quotations received for housing,
equipment and well-drilling. The planning phase for construction of the
project components is about complete and it is expected that the project
will now move into the construction phase.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded for the well drilling program and for
the supply of materials for the water system house connections and sewer
appurtenances. The consultants have completed the project reports for
water supply and sewerage as well as for the laboratory installation. The
draft tender documents for water transmission and distribution mains are
under review. Preparation of the water supply and sewerage feasibility
study for the towns of Ibb and Dhamar was delayed due to the absence of
base mapping which is now being provided by the consultants. Completion
of the draft study, however, is still scheduled for September 1978.  Award
of the contract for the construction industry study was delayed because
the Government requested additional proposals from consultant firms.
These are now under review.



-30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Port Engineer and the engineering consultants have been appointed.
The engineering and soil studies on berth No. 5 have started and are expected
to be completed in the latter part of 1978.



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FIRST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare Project:  9 months (March-November 1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared Project:                Yemen General Electricity
Corporation with assistance
of consultants (Kennedy &
Donkin, UK)
(c)  Project first presented to IDA:               February 1977
(d)  First mission to review Project:              December 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:               December 2, 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                   May 16, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                November 1, 1978
Section II:  Special Implementation Action:
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of effectiveness include:
(a) the signing of loan agreements between the Government and co-
financier(s) to cover the financing gap (paras. 54 and 65).
(b) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and YGEC to govern the onlending of the IDA proceeds from
*                   the Government to the YGEC (para. 65).
2.   Other conditions:
(a) YGEC to set up a system planning unit (para. 39).



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) YGEC to discuss with IDA results of definitive engineering study
by consultants (para. 50).
(c) YGEC to establish a Distribution Department, to be assisted for
Project implementation by a construction consultant (para. 51).
(d) YGEC to maintain debt service coverage at not less than 1.5 in
1979 and subsequent years (para. 58).
(e) YGEC not to undertake during project construction period any
capital expenditure in addition to that included in the present
program in any one year in excess of $500,000 without satisfying
IDA that the investment would not adversely affect its financial
position (para. 58).
(f) YGEC should earn minimum 8 percent on average net fixed assets,
to be revalued according to agree method, beginning in fiscal
1980 (para. 58).
(g) YGEC to provide the Association with a copy of the tariff study
and to implement not later than July 1, 1979 the agreed recom-
mendations of the study (para. 41).



IBRD 13488
PT'  RU'       AA*                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARC. 1978
S A U D I   A R A B I A                              YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
,9W1 ZONe TUAITR;Egt, O,1DoHEor                                  YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
FIRST POWER PROJECT
. \    URZ+MTEDARA,,                     ""N                      NRiRAT.D                       PROJECT AREAS
NV TRANSMISSION LINE - PLANNED
A feeLlc C  RAP VOP YEMEN       I,~Jj"'                                                        T> - - - HV TRANSMISSION LINE- PROIECTED
)ESj           A  ,5 IA,                                         '                                PLANNED  STEAM   STATION
IO- ETTHSPIA  SODA IA                                                                               A 14.  (X) 2  (aA  S   X   >  MAIN POWER STATIONS
PORT
(                                                                    ' J |  g   i)   _    PAVED PRIMARY ROADS
P=IMARY ROADS UNDER CON5TRUCTION
.ISRRT \                ( t   l.        /         ')        4                                OTHER ROADS
mC    \   <  ~7 0  \c<SoadolI   r/  <        <3     NATIONAL CAPITAL
-t                 2                                                                                 0     C TIES, TEVINS AND VILLAGES
-   WADIS
0.OI             -IS10   CONTOURS IN METERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i>  9J)   < \    J                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20  40  60  30  100
? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,~                                 /                                 so 0~               80    EDU
2A'>J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
j       m                               ;                       _    9I        t\- U                  ,>       _ _ _    _ _ _ _|
eQ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20 40 :?
SRILES
-a\    :              ;   j            |         .                ?~~~MklEO    PEOPLE S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OP  YEMEN
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~IT. RTT,RDRRARRA ,3 i   5TOATR \R04DR TA
E T H 10 PR IT AMAPIRARATRTI'EMSTIAYMT,TYRT#MS /
/  '/                  n  .  "'-"'
X             )    :~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GUL f OF  A DEIV
/  DJIBOUTI                    |--~T rsffubr Xri5



