CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 837 YAR
Projet Agreement
(Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
and
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
Dated July 25, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 837 YAR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and YEMEN
GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION (hereinafter called YG'PC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that YGEC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and YGEC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to YGEC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS YGEC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. YGEC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist YGEC in carrying out the
study on rural electrification under Part D of the Project, YGEC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. YGEC is currently employing the British Elec-
tricity International (BEI), a company of the United Kingdom to
prepare a study in order to formulate for YGEC a tariff system,
taking into account the marginal costs of supply. Under the terms
and conditions of said employment, BEI is required to submit a
report setting forth all pertinent data, analysis, findings and
recommendations of said study. YGEC undertakes: (a) to provide the
Association with a copy of said report; (b) to afford the Associa-
tion a reasonable opportunity to comment on the recommendations
of said report; and (c) to implement by July 1, 1979, or such
later date as may be agreed with the Association, all of such
recommendations as shall be agreed among the Borrower, YGEC and
the Association.
Section 2.04. YGEC shall: (a) make arrangements satisfactory
to the Association to ensure that the terms of reference for the
consultants currently employed to carry out the detailed engineer-
ing for Part A of the Project will be expanded so as to require
such consultants to make a study leading to the evaluation of
design alternatives in regard to the use of 15 kV voltage as
contrasted to the use of 11 kV voltage, and to the identification
of: (i) the basic configuration and system parameters in each of
the cities of Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz, and the extent to which
the gradual execution of said Part is justified by load forecast
and system development; (ii) the extent to which the installation
of a 33-kV subtransmission system is needed in said cities; (iii)
the benefits of using underground cables as contrasted to the use
of overhead lines; and (iv) substations configuration and loading
criteria, and size selection for transformers, conductors and
switch-gear; and (v) procedures for rehabilitating or replacing
service connections; and (b) provide the Association with the
results of such engineering study by August 31, 1978, or such
later date as may be agreed between the Association and YGEC.
Section 2.05. YGEC shall: (a) establish by January 1, 1979,
or such later date as may be agreed between the Association
and YGEC an adequately staffed distribution department to be
responsible for the technical planning and execution of YGEC's
electric distribution projects; and (b) employ by January 1, 1979


﻿-3-
or such later date as may be agreed between the Association and
YGEC, a construction consultant whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, in order to assist such department in its activi-
ties under the Project.
Section 2.06. For the implementation of the training program
under Part C of the Project, YGEC undertakes: (a) to prepare and
furnish to the Association, not later than January 1, 1979, or
such later date as may be agreed between the Association and YGEC,
a detailed training program, including the qualifications of
candidates for training under such program; and (b) after review-
ing the Association's comments thereon to carry out such program.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) YGEC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds )f the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by YGEC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, YGEC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) YGEC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) YGEC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit tie faciliLies


﻿and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between YGEC and the
Association, YGEC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by YGEC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(d) YGEC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of YGEC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.10. YGEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, YGEC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) YGEC shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) YGEC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by YGEC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YGEC
Section 3.01. YGEC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. YGEC shall establish by January 1, 1979, or
such later date as may be agreed between the Association and
YGEC, under its general manager's office, a system planning unit
to be responsible for monitoring load growth and the preparation
of system development plans.
Section 3.03. YGEC undertakes: (a) to introduce operational
procedures adequate to monitor the trend of electricity demand for
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural and other pur-
poses; and (b) to report to the Association quarterly, commencing
September 30, 1979 until the completion of the Project, on such
monitoring so that appropriate changes in YGEC's expansion pro-
grams can be made, in consultation with the Association, in light
of the findings of such monitoring and their analysis.
Section 3.04. YGEC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly
as required, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in
accordance with appropriate engineering and financial practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. YGEC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. YGEC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and


﻿(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of YGEC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YGEC shall take from time to time all such measures (in-
cluding but not limited to adjustments of its tariffs) as shall be
required to provide it each fiscal year with revenues sufficient:
(i) to cover its operating costs including depreciation; (ii) to
meet interest on and to amortize its debt; (iii) to maintain
adequate working capital; (iv) to establish and maintain reserves
adequate to meet contingencies; and (v) to finance a reasonable
portion of its capital expenditures, including the replacement of
assets.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, YGEC shall take all measures necessary to ensure that it
shall earn each fiscal year,    arting with its 1979/1980 fiscal
year, an annual rate of return of not less than 8% of the current
net value of YGEC's fixed assets in operation properly valued in
accordance with methods satisfactory to the Association.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of e,tch fiscal year by dividing YGEC's net
income for that year by the average of the current
net values of YGEC's fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "YGEC's net income" means all YGEC's
revenues less all its operating expenses;
(iii) the term "operating expenses" means all operation,
administration, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses, straight-line depreciation based on the
useful life of the assets, taxes (if any), but does
not include interest and other chargs on debt; and
(iv) the term "current net value of fixed assets in
operation" means the current gross value of fixed


﻿-7-
assets in operation less the accumulated deprecia-
tion, all as determined in accordance with methods
of valuation and revaluation acceptable to the
Association. For this purpose, YGEC shall submit
to the Association for its review and not later
than June 30, 1979, YGEC's methods for valuation
and revaluation of assets and shall thereafter
introduce such changes in such methods as shall be
agreed between the Association and YGEC.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, YGEC shall not incur any debt unless YGEC's net revenues,
starting with its 1979-1980 fiscal year, from its operations for
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for E later
twelve-month period ending immediately prior to such inc',rrence,
whichever revenues are the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times
the maximum debt service (including the debt to be incurred) for
any succeeding fiscal year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is ori-
ginally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agree-
ment or guarantee agreement providing for such
debt;
(iii) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all electric sources, adjusted to take account
of YGEC's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though such tariffs were
not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate,
less all operating and administrative expenses
(including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any)
but before provision covering depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)  the term "debt service" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on
debt; and


﻿-8-
(v) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Yemeni Rials debt
payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by YGEC for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
Section 4.05. YGEC shall take all action necessary on its
part to ensure that its customers, including governmental and
municipal entities of the Borrower, will pay their debt for
services rendered by YGEC within 60 days after the billing date.
Section 4.06. Until the completion of the Project, YGEC
shall not undertake any new investment, other than investments
under YGEC's investment program, involving capital expendi-
tures in any one year exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, unless
YGEC shall have submitted to the Association evidence satisfactory
to it that such investment would not adversely affect YGEC's
financial position.
Ak'ICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of YGEC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
YGEC of this event.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For YGEC:
Yemen General Electricity Corporation
P.O. Box 178
Sana'a, Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                     Telex:
ALKAHRABA                           275 YGEC
Sana'a
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under


﻿- 10 -
this Agreement on behalf of YGEC may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of YGEC's Board or such other person or persons as
the Chairman shall designate in writing, and YGEC shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
YEMEN GENERAL ELECTRICITY CORPORATION
By /s/ Yahya Al Mutawakel
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured,
and installation works shall be carried out, under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and installation works to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding, in addition to the require-
ments of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, YGEC shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and installation works in ques-
tion. YGEC shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or installation works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be ext,uded; and (iii) the cost to YGEC of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installattor shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$750,000 in the aggregate may be procured through international
shopping pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards and
Final Contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, YGEC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, YGEC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform YGEC
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, YGEC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it


﻿- 13 -
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform YGEC and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, YGEC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform YGEC and state
the reasons for its determination.


