R EST RI C T ED
FILE      C0PY                      Report No. P-424
This report was prepared for use within the Bknki and it offiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTElRNATIONAL BANK FOR RCONSTRUCMON AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A ROAD PROJECT
March 2Z, 1965



REPORT AND RECOMDENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LQAN TO JAMAICA
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a pro-
Posed loan to Jamaica for an amount in various currencies equivalent
to US$5.5 millionto help finance a road project.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.     The Bank-s relations with Jamaica began in 1952 when a
general survey mission, organized by the Bank, prepared a report
on "The Economic Development of Jamaica" for the Government.
After the completion of this report there were a number of informal
contacts but no projects were presented to the Bank for financing.
Jamaica became an independent member of the British Commonwealth
in 1962 and joined the Bank in February 1963. The Government then
requested the Bank to provide financial assistance for its five-
year development plan (1963-68). In March 1964 a mission visited
Jamaica to appraise the road project now proposed for Bank financ-
ing. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in January,
1965. It would be the Bank's first loan in Jamaica.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LQAN
3.     The main characteristics of the proposed loan would be as
follows:
Borrower:                     Jamaica.
Amount:                       The equivalent in various currencies
of $5.5 million.
Purpose:                      To help finance a highway construc-
tion project.
Amortization:                 In 41 semi-annual installements, be-
ginning July 15, 1970 and ending
July 15, 1990. Each payment of
principal and interest taken together
would be approximately equal.
Interest Rate:                5-1/2%.
Commitment Charge:            3/8 of 1%.



- 2 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
4.     An appraisal report on the project is attached (No. 1).
5.     Highwsay transport is the most important form of transport
in Jamaica. The railway, which is Government-owned, is important
only for the carrying of bauxite products, and the domestic air
service is still on an experimental basis. The highway system of
Jamaica comprises some 2,690 miles of main roads. The roads are
generally well maintained and the extent of the highway network
is ample. However, the standards to which the roads were originally
constructed are inadequate for today's type and volume of traffic,
particularly in regard to alignment and width. The highway trans-
port industry has expanded rapidly in the last ten years with the
motor vehicle fleet increasing at an annual rate of 15 percent and
further substantial growth in highway transport can be expected.
6.     Jamaica's five-year development plan for 1963-68 allocated
$33 million for transport investments, or about 13 percent of the
$256 million total expenditures proposed. About $25 million, or
some three quarters of the allocation for transportation, is for
highways; an additional $16 million is allocated for roads in
connection with agricultural and housing projects. The development
plan provides only for public capital expenditure and does not
include expenditure on vehicles, which are likely to be at least
three times as great as the investments in highways. The proposed
project was not originally included in the development plan because
the economic study was not yet completed. The Government decided
to proceed with it when the traffic studies indicated that the road
sections in the proposed project had a high priority.
7.     The project consists of the improvement of three road sec-
tions on the main route from Kingston to the north coast. The first
section, from Kingston to Spanish Town, which accounts for about
70 percent of the expenditure included in the project, is the most
travelled and heavily congested highway in the country and serves
an area composed of commercial and industrial enterprises. The
opening of the new four-lane road will resultin a substantial re-
duction in vehicle operating costs. The improvement of the second
section north from Spanish Town to Bog Walk serving an area which is
agricultural in nature, will also reduce vehicle operating costs by
permitting greater speeds, a reduction in distance, and the elimina-
tion of a lengthy detour which has to be made whenever the present
road is closed to traffic because of recurrent floods. The improve-
ment of the third section, from Moneague to Crescent Park, which is
in poor condition, will permit traffic to use this road instead
of a detour via Ocho Rios which is unsuitable for heavy traffic.
Agriculture is the main activity in the area served by this road.



- 3 -
8.       The Ministry of Communications and Works, responsible for
the execution of the project, is well organized and efficient.
However, as the project would involve almost doubling construction
by the Ministry during the next few years, a firm of outside con-
sultants will be employed to review the existing designs, prepare
specifications and final documents and supervise the construction
of the sections Kingston-Spanish Town and Spanish Town-Bog Walk.
Construction of these sections will be carried out under unit
price contracts let on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding, and the work will probably be contracted to foreign firms as
there is no large local road construction industry in Jamaica. On
the small Moneague-Crescent Park section, design and improvement
work will be carried out by force account, which will provide use-
ful training for the Ministry's engineers and technicians, as well
as employing the Ministry's available labor and construction equip-
ment. The consultants will also provide advisory services for
this section.
9.       Total expenditures on the project are expected to be US$11
million equivalent, half of which would be covered by disbursements
from the Bank loan. The foreign exchange component is estimated to
be about 48 percent for the conbracted works, about 38 percent for
the force account work, and about 60 percent for engineering services.
The total period for the completion of the project is estimated at
about 5 years. The Government has agreed that it will give priority
to the construction of the roads, and will provide adequate local
currency funds from its investment budget to carry out the project
on schedule.
10.      The project, which is well planned and technically sound,
will greatly improve road transport conditions and sharply reduce
transport costs on some of the most heavily travelled roads in
Jamaica. The Ministry's road maintenance organization functions
efficiently and the quality of maintenance is generally good. The
rates of return on the investments in the three road sections range
from 10 to 25 percent, which are clearly satisfactory.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
11.      Copies of the draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank relating
to the project are being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The draft Loan Agreement conforms substanitially to the
pattern of agreements for similar projects where disbursements of
the proceeds of the loan are to be in amounts equal to a percentage
of total eexpenditures for the project.
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
12.      A report (No. EA-144a) on the "Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Jamaica" was circulated to the Executive Directors
for information on October 10, 1963 (IBRD/R63-120).
13.      Until the last decade the economy of Jamaica was heavily
dependent on the production and export of sugar and bananas. The
discovery of large resources of bauxite after the war added another
major export product to an economy almost wholly dependent on
agriculture. During the 1950's the expansion of bauxite and alumina
production proceeded rapidly and, at the present time, the value
of exports of these two products is more than double that of sugar.
However, in an economy characterized by population pressure the
sugar industry remains very important as a source of employment.
14.      The development of the bauxite resources, the rapid growth
in the tourist industry and the growth of manufacturing industry
enabled Jamaica to achieve a rate of growth which averaged 7 per-
cent during the period of 1953-1960. Nevertheless, the problem of
unemployment remained serious despite substantial emigration to
the United Kingdom. Since 1960 the rate of growth has slowed down
considerably.
15.      Recent Economic Developments.   In the last quarter of
1963 there was an upturn in economic activity and this general
improvement continued in 196h. During 1963 sugar production and
export earnings increased to record levels, reflecting the buoy-
ancy in the world market, and by the end of the year there was
also a revival in the construction and tourist industries.
Alumina output increased, but there was a decline in bauxite pro-
duction, and a slight decrease in export earnings from these pro-
ducts. Reflecting the considerable improvement in exports, mainly
from sugar sales, the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments was only £0.7 million in 1963, the smallest since 195h.



16.        The general economic improvement continued in 1964.
Although sugar production declined slightly as compared with the
previous year, bauxite and alumina production increased. Exports
increased moderately but the higher level of economic activity led
to a considerable rise in imports and larger deficit on the balance
of payments. The rising economic activity was also reflected in an
increase in commercial bank loans and advances.
17.        The general pattern of government finance has been one of
surpluses on current account being used to finance capital expenditure,
with the balance of capital expenditure being financed by external
borrosing.  In recent years, tax revenues have increased steadily but,
since 1960/1961, the more rapid growth of current expenditure has re-
sulted in smaller surpluses with which to finance the expanding capital
expenditure. Increasing resort has been had to borrowing, both domestic
and foreign. The estimates for 1964/1965 project an 11 percent in-
crease in total revenue, resulting partly from the recovery of the
economy but mostly from increased taxation. With a continuing increase
in current expenditure, and a record 32 percent increase scheduled in
capital expenditure, some 25 percent of capital expenditure is expected
to be financed from the current surplus, as compared with the peak of
55 percent in 1960/1961.
18.        The local capital market has shown a significant develop-
ment under the guidance of the Bank of Jamaica, and has become an in-
creasingly important source of finance to the Government. In September
1964, government local registered stock and treasury bills amounted to
L20 million and ;10 million respectively, as compared with L15 million
and L8 million a year before. In foreign markets also, some of the uP.-
certainties associated with Jamaica's independence and political events
in the Caribbean have been overcome, and in June 1964 Jamaica made
successful issues of L3.2 million in the United Kingdom and Can.$4.5
million in Canada without any difficulty. An issue in the New York
market is now under preparation.
19.        Current Prospects and Creditworthiness.  Population growth
(which in recent years has exceeded the rate of economic growth), a
high level of unemployment, and rural poverty remain Jamaica's basic
problems. In 1963 emigration to the United Kingdom was reduced to
less than one-fifth of the peak reached in 1961, as a result of the re-
strictions on the entry of Commonwealth citizens. The Government's
plans for increasing the contribution of the agricultural sector are
now being worked out and, if successful, could produce significant
results. The prospects for bauxite export earnings are basically good.
Tourism has been expanding but there is still considerable excess
capacity in hotels and further measures, particularly those which would
attract middle-income tourists, will be necessary if this industry is to
make its full contribution to economic development.  There are, therefore,



reasonably good prospects for economic growth in Jamaica based mainly
on the export of bauxite and alumina, and processed foodstuffs, import
substitution and tourism.  However, it is unlikely that the rapid rate
of growth characteristic of the 1950's will be repeated in the period
immediately ahead.
20.        Total public external debt in December 1964 was $74.8 million
and debt charges were $5.8 million or less than three percent of
estimated merchandise exports in 1964. Charges on this debt will average
annually about $7.0 million during 1965-1978 with the peak of $10.3
million in 1973 being about five percent of 1964 export earnings. In
these circumstances a prudent borrowing program is justified and Jamaica
can be regarded as creditworthy for the loan now proposed.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WiITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIIENT
21.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECONMENDATIO1.
22.        I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Jamaica in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand
dollars ($5,500,000), to mature on or prior to July 15, 1990, to bear
interest at the rate of five and one-half percent (516) per annum, and
to be upon other terms and conditions substantially in accordance writh
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Highway Project) between Jamaica and the Bank which has been presented
to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C..
March 22, 1965



