CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 740 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 28, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 740 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 28, 1971


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  May   28, 1971,    between   REPUBLIC    OF
COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (hereinafter called the Borrower) the
Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent
to fifteen million dollars ($ 15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Bonds; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption
of the Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in the
Bonds.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes to take all action or cause all action to be taken which the Borrower
may require for the punctual performance of its obligations under Section 5.05
of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions
of the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered
by the Borrower. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Guarantor
and such other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated
as authorized representatives of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 8.10
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank that
no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of a lien
on governmental assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Guarantor as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and


﻿5
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, (a) the term "assets of the Guarantor" includes
assets of the Guarantor or of any of its political subdivisions or of any Agency
or of Banco de la Republica or any other institution acting as the central bank
of the Guarantor, and (b) the term "Agency" means any agency or instrumentality
of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include
any institution or organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the operations
of which are conducted primarily in the interest of or for account of the Guarantor
or any political subdivision of the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall make and shall cause each of its agencies
and instrumentalities to make cue payment of all its present and future debts
to the Borrower. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Guarantor
*        specifically guarantees the due payment of the debts as of December 31, 1970,
of its Administracion Postal Nacional to the Borrower in accordance with
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and undertakes that any amount payable
pursuant to such arrangements and not paid on or before the scheduled payment
date shall be paid by the Guarantor within six months of such date.
(b)   The Guarantor shall use its best efforts to ensure that the telephone
operating entities which are independent from the Guarantor shall make due and
punctual payment of all their present and future debts to the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
Section 4.01. The Guarantor and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end the Guarantor
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party: (i) exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under the Guarantee Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) furnish to the other all such information
as it shall reasonably request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On


﻿6
the part of the Guarantor, such information shall include information with respect
to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Guarantor, including
its balance of payments, and the external debt of the Guarantor, of any of its
political subdivisions and of any agency of the Guarantor or of any such political
subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to  terfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(b)   The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the Guarantor
for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
Secticli 5.02. The Guarantee Agreement, the Loan Agreement, any
instrument made pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, issue,
delivery or registration thereof and the Guarantor shall, in respect of any instrument
made pursuant to such Section 3.01, pay all such taxes, if any, imposed under
the laws of any other country or countries.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
or moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in
effect in its territories.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Republic of Colombia
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios,
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿8
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through   their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Alfonso Patifio Rosselli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


