                   Document of
                  The World Bank




                                             Report No: 30231

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (SCL-42530)

                      ON A

                LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 28 MILLION

                      TO THE

                   VENEZUELA

                      FOR A

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND CARTOGRAPHY PROJECT




                  October 14, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective )

                               Currency Unit = Venezuelan Bolivar (Bs)
                                   US$ 1.00 = Bs1,600.00 Bolivar

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                     1997    2004

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABRAE     Areas Under Special Management Regime
BIRF      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
BM        World Bank
CARTOSUR
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CORDIPLAN Central Office of Coordination and Planning
CSB       Centro Simon Bolivar (Simon Bolivar Center)
DEA       Environmental State Direction
DE        State Directions
EA        Environmental Assessment
IGVSB     Geographic Institute of Venezuela Simon Bolivar
MARNR     Ministry of Environment and Renewable Natural Resouces
MARN      Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MF        Ministry of Finance
MoE       Monitoring and Evaluation
MPD       Ministry of Planning and Development
NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PNGA      National Program of Environmental Management and Cartography
POA       Direction General of Planning and Environmental Ordering
POTEV     Land Ordering Plan of Vargas State
PNUD      United Nations Development Program
SAGA      Autonomous Environmental Management Service
SIG       Geographic Information System
TDR       Terms of Reference
PCU       Project Coordination Unit

                             Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                            Country Director   Marcelo Giugale
                            Sector Manager     Abel Mejia
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Ricardo Hernandez

                                        VENEZUELA
                    Environmental Management and Cartography Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P035743                                                  Project Name: Environmental Management and
                                                                     Cartography Project
Team Leader: Ricardo Hernandez                                       TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 14, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Environmental Management and Cartography                 L/C/TF Number: SCL-42530
                            Project
   Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (81%); Sub-national government
                            administration (19%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Decentralization (P);
                            Civic engagement, participation and community driven development
                            (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/23/1996                                     Effective: 03/24/1998                06/08/1998
     Appraisal: 04/30/1997                                         MTR: 06/25/2001                  04/28/2001
      Approval: 11/20/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 02/27/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV OF VENEZUELA/MARNR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javid Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Abel Mejia                                     Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Ricardo Hernandez                              Richard M. Huber
ICR Primary Author:             Julio Cordoba


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The purpose of the project was to strengthen the environmental management in Venezuela such
that it contributes to sustainable socio-economic development of the country by: a) strengthening
MARNR by improving its capabilities for environmental assessment, management, enforcement of
environmental laws and regulations and environmental planning and education; b) strengthening
and deepening the decentralization process for environmental management and planning; and c)
strengthening institutional capabilities in connection with cartography services.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the project objectives, which remained clear and unchanged
throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following three components: (1) Modernization of MARNR; (2)
Environmental Management at the state and Municipal Levels; and (3) Cartography
Modernization.

                             Table 1. Original allocation of resources

                           Component                                 GoV           Loan        Total
                                                                    (US$M)        (US$M)      (US$M)
1) Modernization of MARNR                                            11.16         16.62       27.78
2) Environmental Management at the State and Municipal                0.90          5.45       6.35
     Levels
3) Cartography Modernization                                          4.94          5.93       10.87
Total Project Cost                                                   17.00         28.00       45.00


Project Component 1. Modernization of MARNR - US$27.78 million - 61.7% (total cost of
component with contingencies)

The Modernization of MARNR would contribute to support the development of national policies,
legislation, regulations, economic incentives, and information systems for (i) environmental
protection, monitoring, and evaluation, (ii) integrated environmental and economic planning, and
(iii) decentralized environmental management in the country. Accordingly, four Sub-components
were identified as: 1a. Environmental Quality; lb. Surveillance and Enforcement; 1c. National
Environmental Planning, Environmental Studies and Environmental Education; and 1d. MARNR's
Reorganization and Modernization of some Administrative Processes. Their contents were
defined along 9 programs:

1. A program to improve the carrying out of EAs and to establish a certification system of firms
carrying out EAs through: (a) the review, updating, publication and distribution of manuals on
preparation of EAs; (b) the design and implementation of a certification program, including
acquisition of equipment and training related thereto, for private firms and consultants to carry
out EAs; and (c) the design and implementation of a computerized tracking system for EAs.




                                                 - 2 -

2. (a) The conversion of the existing El Hatillo laboratory into a national reference laboratory
including building construction, acquisition and utilization of office, informatic and laboratory
equipment and furniture, training and other technical assistance related thereto; and (b) the
establishment and operation of a national certification system for environmental laboratories
including the acquisition and utilization of office, informatic and laboratory equipment, training
and other technical assistance related thereto.

3. Establishment and operation of a department for environmental technology within MARNR
including information systems, studies and development of data bases.

4. A program to improve the environmental approval mechanisms, including those for approval
for operation of industrial plants, a program to evaluate small- and medium-size industries, the
development of an environmental information system and acquisition and utilization of office and
computer equipment, training and other technical assistance related thereto.

5. (a) Strengthening of the legal unit within MARNR, including acquisition and utilization of data
bases and informatic equipment and related training of legal staff; (b) studies on environmental
legislation and regulations to propose adjustments necessary to introduce market-based
instruments; and (c) training of selected judges and attorneys on environmental matters.

6. A program to improve the level of enforcement of environmental laws and regulations through:
(a) the implementation of a process of self-reporting by industry with systematic checks by
MARNR inspectors; (b) the design and operation of an information system to support the above
process; (c) the establishment and operation of a system for monitoring compliance with EAs; and
(d) the acquisition and utilization of equipment and vehicles, training and other technical
assistance related thereto.

7. (a) Implementation of an improved process, including acquisition and utilization of equipment
and furniture, training and other technical assistance related thereto and public participation
workshops, for updating the existing national and state land use plans to enable MARNR and
CORDIPLAN to incorporate principles of sustainable development as the basis for the national
development plans; (b) the design of the national environmental action plan including public
participation workshops and technical support for the unit within MARNR in charge of preparing
such plan; and (c) an environmental education and participation program including evaluation of
existing curricula and necessary adjustments, inventory and evaluation of NGOs in the
environmental sector, training of teachers and acquisition and utilization of office and informatic
equipment.

8. (a) Design, renovation, remodeling and construction of MARNR's central office building; (b)
the design and implementation of a management information system to support the planning and
budgeting functions within MARNR; (c) the consolidation of MARNR's information systems
including upgrading of hardware, software improvements and training; (d) administrative
modemization in procurement, disbursements and human resources; (e) upgrading of the
communications system between MARNR's central office and regional offices; (f) the
establishment and operation of SAGA including the acquisition and utilization of office and



                                                - 3 -

informatic equipment and data bases, training and other technical assistance related thereto; (g) a
training program for MARNR personnel; and (h) studies and workshops to support MARNR's
efforts to reorganize its overall organizational structure and decentralize environmental
responsibilities.

9. Establishment and operation of the PCU.

Project Component 2. Environmental Management at The State and Municipal Levels - US$6.35
million - 14.1% (total cost of component with contingencies)

The purpose of this Component would be that MARNR could provide improved, high quality and
timely services to the private sector (e.g. permitting, environmental impact assessment, and
certification), and foster the development of the private environmental services and industry
sector. This component would serve as a pilot, demonstration and structured learning experience
to facilitate the decentralization of environmental management in Venezuela. Its contents would
be:

1. A pilot program to improve environmental management in the Selected States and Selected
Municipalities through: (a) the strengthening of the respective environmental agency including
acquisition and utilization of equipment and training related thereto; (b) preparation of
environmental action plans and their integration into socio-economic planning; and (c) the
implementation of a public awareness and community participation program.

2. A technical assistance program to establish the necessary incentives and capacity at the regional
and local level in connection with environmental management, such program to include
promotional campaigns, preparation of cooperation agreements, state and local environmental
action plans, participatory workshops, training of state and municipal staff on environmental
management and enforcement, design of the legal framework to enable municipal environmental
regulation and enforcement, and monitoring and evaluation of environmental investments.

Project Component 3. Cartography Modernization          - US$10.87 million - 24.2% (total cost of
component with contingencies)

The purpose of this Component would be to modernize capabilities of the cartography service
through the establishment and operation, including studies, training and acquisition of equipment
and data related thereto, of a digital mapping base to provide reliable and timely information for
governmental functions such as economic planning, regional development, environmental
management and national security. Its content would be a program to (i) convert to digital
technology such that it can use data collected by satellites for updating information and for
producing high quality maps specific to the needs of the different users, and (ii) ensure the
preservation of important maps.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project had a slow start in June 1998. The political change in Venezuela of February 1999
brought a new dynamic to the public sector. A new constitution was drafted including important



                                                - 4 -

definitions about the value and role of the environment and the principles of policies to manage it.
During the time needed for these changes the project implementation progressed slowly. A major
event -meaningful for the project- occurred at the end of 1999 when a period of heavy rains
caused a disastrous landslide in the state of Vargas causing numerous victims. The tragedy of
Vargas -as it is called- forcing a reorientation of programs and budgets, which affected the
project. The project regained momentum in 2000 after a major reorganization of the MARNR
-which changed its name to MARN- in which a Vice-Minister assumed responsibility for the
project. After the midterm review mission of June 2001, the project was reshaped: the amounts
allocated and the specific activities were redefined and the implementation period was extended
from 5 to 6 years. The number and names of components of the project remained the same as the
ones in the original design, but the specific activities were redefined, as well as the allocation of
resources.

Component 1. Modernization of MARN. This Component was rationalized by reducing the number
of activities of the original sub-components. The amount allocated was reduced to US$24.15
million (53.6% of total cost).

Component 2. Environmental Management at the State and Municipal Levels. The Component
which originally was directed to contribute to the process of de-centralization of environmental
functions to scattered States and Municipalities and de-concentration of functions and processes
in MARN, was refocused to address the prioritary zone south of the Orinoco. According to the
revised priorities, the Component was changed to focus on Bolivar, Amazonas, Aragua y
Carabobo States. The activities related to de-centralization policies were de-continued. Its size
was increased to US$8.44 million (18.8% of total cost).

Component 3. Cartography Modernization. The objective of this Component remained unchanged.
Its size was increased to US$12.41 million (27.6% of total cost) and focused mostly in covering
the prioritary zone south of the Orinoco.

                              Table2. Allocation of resources at closing

                             Component                                 GoV          Loan         Total
                                                                     (US$M)       (US$M)        (US$M)
  1) Modernization of MARN                                            11.23        12.91         24.15
      1a. Environmental Quality                                        1.61         1.65         3.27
      lb. Surveillance and Enforcement                                 0.56         2.27         2.83
      1c. National Environmental Planning, Environmental Studies       1.72         0.74         2.46
      and Environmental Education
      1d. MARN's Reorganization and Modernization of some              7.34         8.25         15.59
      Administrative Processes
 2) Environmental Management at the State and Municipal Levels         4.87         3.57       8.44
 3) Cartography Modernization                                          0.90         11.52        12.41
  Total Project Cost                                                  17.00         28.00        45.00


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Consistency with the CAS. The proposed project was fully consistent with the Country Assistance


                                                 - 5 -

Strategy (CAS) for Venezuela and with the government's economic and social program and
investment priorities (Agenda Venezuela) which focused on: (i) enhancing sustainable growth
with stability, which includes promoting and integrating sustainable environmental management,
(ii) promoting social development, and (iii) modernizing the public sector. The project supported
the CAS objectives by helping to modernize and streamline MARNR, as well as to support the
decentralization efforts through technical assistance to state and local institutions. The proposed
project was deemed consistent with the Government's initiative, fully supported by the Bank, to
mainstream environmental considerations into development objectives.

Lessons learned from previous projects. The principal lessons learned from previous projects
were that a successful environmental management project requires: (a) a project design as simple
as possible, with a single government ministry as principal implementation agency; (b) strong
political commitment; (c) an understanding of environmental management issues by the key
decision-makers in the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government; (d) clear
medium and long-term objectives, supported by an established planning process; (e) working
towards a clear and consistent legal framework that introduces market based instruments that
promote flexibility and least cost options; (f) close coordination of the activities of the many
institutions whose activities affect the environment and its management; (g) accurate, reliable and
accessible information to manage environmental and natural resource programs; and (h) sustained
and coordinated Government and Bank supervision of the project throughout its implementation.

Lessons learned and incorporated into this project included: (a) political support, e.g. in the
Congress, as well as "bureaucratic", e.g., in the Ministry of Finance and CORDIPLAN, were
secured early in the project preparation phase; (b) particular attention was paid to the choice and
design of procurement procedures that would be used during the project to avoid undue steps and
subsequent delays; and (c) intensive training on the project's procurement and disbursement
procedures would be provided to the appropriate staff, particularly the PCU, early in the project
implementation phase.

Sectoral lessons learned and incorporated into the project included: (a) a well defined clear
division of responsibility between national (MARNR) and regional agencies (MARNR State
Environmental Agencies and Municipalities); (b) the participation of other government
departments, e.g., planning and finance, should be well structured, assigning roles and
responsibilities explicitly; (c) direct contact during preparation occurred with the local and/or
regional authorities included in the project; (d) stakeholders' participation in project design
through a series of seminars/workshops were significant and effective in directing the scope of the
project; (e) the capacity of implementing institutions to absorb and utilize resources was carefully
assessed and resulted in a downsizing of project components; (f) project activities focused on
perfecting the legal and regulatory framework on environmental matters; and (g) a PCU (Project
Coordination Unit) was created. The unit would be financed under the project, and would be
supported by a well equipped office and highly qualified staff. The PCU staff should have
substantial experience in project management, budgeting, procurement, and information systems,
and have familiarity with Bank procedures.

Sustainability. By strengthening MARN's environmental policy-setting and management



                                                - 6 -

functions, the project would help the Ministry fulfill its role as the leading agency for the sector
and build the institutional capacity required to fully implement sustainable development goals
called for in Agenda 21 and in national legislation. The project's support of state and local
governments and NGOs' participation in environmental management in Venezuela, together with
increased cost-recovery for services (cartography, permitting, lab certification and services)
should help ensure the sustainability of project activities and benefits beyond the 5-year life of the
project. The incremental costs resulting from project activities will be kept to a minimum. In
addition, MARNR restructuring; including deconcentration, decentralization and promoting
private sector participation involvement would result in more efficient environmental
management. The Autonomous Environmental Management Service (SAGA) would serve as a
single mechanism for granting environmental permits to the private sector with the technical
supervision of the appropriate technical General Directorates of MARN and was designed to
recover costs through the permitting process.

Risks. The overall risk assessment rated the project as medium/high. As possible situation which
could affect the project were identified: i) MARNR's unproven institutional capacity for
implementation of the project; (ii) Macroeconomic instability slows economic reform and thereby
access to pollution control technology and expertise; (iii) Investments (building and equipment) in
cartography component poorly utilized and maintained; (iv) Reorganization of MARNR delayed;
(v) Fiscal (state and municipal) and budget constraints limit ability of states and municipalities to
expand environmental monitoring and enforcement therefore cost recovery from permits,
enforcement, and the MARNR certification lab that is an essential step for institutional viability,
deconcentration, and decentralization; (vi) Ministries fail to understand importance of national
environmental planning as part of overall economic planning; (vii) MARNR staff beneficiaries and
training participants lack commitment or authority to forge change and innovation; (viii) Service
provision of pollution prevention technical assistance by decentralized agencies within the states
and municipalities not well received by the private sector; and (ix) Poor project administration due
to lack of qualified staff and use of consultants.

Possible Controversial Aspects. Eventual de facto decentralization and deconcentration of
environmental functions previously decentralized de jure through legal statutes was deemed
controversial due to concerns that local authorities lack capacity and would politicize issues.
While deconcentration would be done throughout the 22 states, decentralization activities under
the project would be focused on two pilot states. In addition, the training programs would be
geared not only to the MARNR state offices, but would be directed towards the municipalities
and the NGO/private sector community as pertinent, and particularly as it pertains to cost
effective solutions to pollution prevention.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
During its execution the project made a significant contribution to the achievement of the overall
objective of to strengthening the environmental management in Venezuela and demonstrated a
satisfactory completion of activities towards this objective. During the project life, there were two
different phases: A) From the effectiveness to year 2000; and B) from 2000 to closing. The
turning point was the redefinition of the role of the Ministry, enlarging its scope to oversee all



                                                  - 7 -

natural resources -formerly, it covered only renewable ones- and the appointment of new
authorities. This reorganization of the Ministry -it changed its name to MARN- meant the
appointment of a Vice Minister and the allocation of the project directly to him. The project
underwent a revision to accommodate to the new conceptions and priorities. In spite of the
transition, the project development objective of strengthening the environmental management in
Venezuela was deemed still valid because it satisfied the environmental needs of the country, one
of the priorities identified in the new Constitution. The institutional development objective of the
project -known locally as Programa Nacional de Gerencia Ambiental (PNGA) - fully complied
with the revised National Development Plan and the Sectoral Plan of MARN. Thus the changes of
government -and of policies- did not alter the purpose and objectives of the PNGA. The major
lines of the program remained, although some specific goals and activities were modified
following more precise definitions within MARN.

During the first phase, the project advanced very slowly and achieved few goals, while the second
phase was characterized by a new momentum, a better organization and a reorientation of the
project activities, within the original objectives. After the Midterm review, the project was
simplified and some sub-subcomponents were dropped thus allowing to better focus on the more
feasible ones. The implementation of the PNGA meant a dramatic advance in the modernization
of the Ministry, enabling it to better perform in the managing of the environmental issues.
Though the implementation of the project activities, the Ministry strengthened its
communicational capabilities, allowing a more fluid daily interrelation with field offices (DEAs)
and a stronger link with regions and programs. The productivity of the MARN and its efficiency
were enhanced through better physical facilities and an improved technology acquired though the
project, especially in the case of environmental laboratories and the cartography facilities. The
improved capacity to communicate timely and efficiently among the Ministry and its dependencies
was instrumental in supporting a better coordination in daily work and in the resulting better
exploitation of latent synergies.

The project achieved meaningful results although the complete impacts of the initiatives launched
will materialize beyond the life of the project. All these achievements represented a valuable
contribution to a process that it is neither concluded nor consolidated at the time of closing of the
project. The processes initiated require the continuation of the main lines of work the project
supported plus additional ones that were identified during the last phase of the program. A follow
up operation has been requested by the Government; if granted, this operation would improve the
sustainability of this first phase..

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Modernization of MARN. The total investment in this component represents 54%
of the total amount of the loan. Originally there were considered 16 activities of which 10
remained at the end of the project. The overall result of this Component, at the end of the project,
is satisfactory.

The main outputs were:
· Permit System. After the initial work of technical design, -and as part of the rearrangement of
priorities to improve focusing inn those deemed as more relevant- the MARN decided to transfer
the bulk of the program to another source of funds within the MARN. It only remained in the


                                                 - 8 -

project the design of an Integrated System to inform about the data gathered by the instruments of
previous control and environmental supervision, in which the MARN takes part. This will technify
and digitalize the processes to obtain a permit allowing the clients to use the internet for these
purposes.

· Network of Environmental Laboratories. The activity that had a major achievement was the
consolidation of the "Laboratorio Ambiental del MARN" -located in Hatillo- as the National
Reference Laboratory for environmental purposes. The project invested both in physical facilities,
improved technology and training and communication equipment to link the Hatillo Laboratory
with the network of deconcentrated environmental laboratories. The existence of a Reference
Laboratory with capacity to train personnel of the rest of the network caused an improvement in
the quality of the complete network. Beside the facilities in Hatillo, the acquisition of a mobile
laboratory unit, for on-site processing of water, air and toxic waste samples, contributed to
improve the opportunity of the provision of services to support environmental controls. The
sample-processing response time diminished and the reliability of the sampling increased.

·Technology and its Environmental Management. This program focused on the conception of
a Center of Promotion of Clean Technologies but it advanced only to the development of a
proposal for the operation of such Center, as a consequence of the decision to focus on fewer and
more prioritary goals.

·National Program of Vigilance and Control. This program achieved several results: a)
updating of DEAs maps of Anzoategui, Monagas and Delta Amacuro, which identified critical
environmental issues in land, river and aerial routes; b) formulation of a Coastal Law; c)
identification and diagnosis of selected environmental issues in seven regions as a first step to their
vigilance and control plans: East, West, North center, High Orinoco-Apure, Mid and Low
Orinoco, Esequibo and Marine-insular. This input will allow MARN to define a medium-large
term program to reduce detected environmental damage and prevent further damage.

·Integration of Socio-Economic and Environment in Planning Systems. This program
focused on the Land Management Plan of Vargas State (POTEV). This decision was taken as
consequence of the Emergency Plan drafted to deal with the consequence of the so called Vargas
Tragedy, a major disaster caused by heavy rains in 1999. The POTEV was completed and
validated through a process of public consultation to communities and other stakeholders.

·Demarcation of Habitat and Land. This activity addressed the process of demarcation of
habitat and land in the indigenous communities in eight States. At closing of the project this
process was in its first steps due to the slow pace of reaching the social consensus needed for this
kind of initiatives. At the time of closing, only three state commissions were operational and had
just defined the methodology for land survey processes, according to the reality of each State.
The remaining ones were still in the process of reaching basic agreements to integrate them.

·Environmental Education in Formal Primary and Secondary Education, and
Participation of the Private Sector. This activity contributed to the new curricula design for the
schools, generated a publication -Woman and Environment- to contribute to disseminate



                                                 - 9 -

environmental principles and techniques. A Design of Socio-Productive Units was implemented in
the community of Verde Valentin in the Miranda State to stimulate the incorporation of cleaner
technologies in the production of cazabe and yucca. One of the pillars of the environmental
education program was the use of mobile units -Ecobuses- to cover dissemination and education
purposes in remote areas. The initiative could not be completed within the timeframe of the
project due to a very cumbersome and slow strategy to build and furbish the buses instead of
buying them ready to use. It is expected to be completed in the first half of 2004 through the use
of funds of the regular budget of MARN.

·Refurbishment of the Central Offices of MARN. This activity improved the physical facilities:
a) remodeling of three floors of the building; b) design and construction of a Star Room; c)
improvement of the Air Quality Measuring Station; d) modernization of the elevator service; e)
designed and implementation of the grounding network system of the building and f)
advancements were made on the electric and hydro-pneumatic systems of the building. More
advancement in these two systems was not achieved due to poor coordination with and
collaboration from the Centro Simon Bolivar (CSB), which is the owner of the complex where the
MARN building is located.

·Improvement of the informatics facilities.        This activity modernized the capacity of the
MARN: a) installed 2400 data-voice points network, including active equipment on complete
connectivity and network; b) acquired and installed more than 500 PCs and more than forty
network printers, and provided five portable computers for field works; c) acquired software
licenses; d) implemented a network of internal e-mail addresses; and e) incorporated 18 out of the
23 State Direction of Environment to the MARN WAN.

·Project Coordination Unit. After a poor performance in the first phase of the PNGA the
Coordination Unit was reorganized along better defined functions and lines of authority. In the
last phase the PCU developed a reliable organization which was responsible for the momentum
and efficiency that characterized the program in its last years. The PCU set up an "ad hoc"
evaluation system that served as methodological tool to monitor and control the phases of
execution of every activity. With this system, it could be determined in real time the state of
progress of the Procurement Plan and the action (in terms of efficiency of the time of response)
both of the executors (directors) and of the Bank. The implementation and enhancement of this
tool permitted the professionalization of the PCU and the development of a device for budgetary
planning for the Ministry.

Former programs such as: Improvement of EA System and certification; Improvement of Permit
System for Industrial Plants; Updating of the legislation and regulation framework, preparation of
a National Environmental Plan; Environmental Studies, Design of the Autonomous Service of
Environmental Management; Professional Development of MARN, were discontinued in the
revision made to the project in 2001, marking the beginning of the second phase of the project.
The rationale for this decision was to focus the project of fewer and more reachable goals instead
of pursuing all of the programs formerly defined in the PAD.

Component 2. Environmental Management at the State and Municipal Levels.                     Total



                                               - 10 -

investment on this Component was 19% of the loan. The list of states to be addressed by the
project was modified in 2001focusing in supporting the region South of the Orinoco (Bolivar and
Amazonas States) instead of the 5 scattered states in the original list. Later the State of Aragua
was added to the list. The rationale for this re-focusing was to sustain a different vision of the
regional priorities, concentrating resources in the most strategic part of the country, according to
the conception of the new authorities.

The main outputs were:
· In Nueva Esparta State the outcome was satisfactory, two Municipal Environmental Offices
were created, which served as model for nine more, covering the total extension of Nueva
Esparta. Some functions of the MARN were transferred to these offices.              Diverse studies
supported the updating of the Land Management Plan which is under implementation. Other
studies are contributing to the design of a Plan for Solid Waste Management.

· In Falcon State two Municipal Environmental Offices were created but only one is functioning
as of now. This program was discontinued in 2001 for the reasons given above.

· In Amazonas State the DEA was improved its technical capacities by an estimated 60%. A
new institutional organization was implemented. Additional equipment as boats, trucks and
laboratory hardware, allowed a better vigilance and control over the environmental consequences
of the mining activities. The Land Management Plan was updated.

· In Bolivar State the results were also satisfactory. Its DEA was consolidated along the same
lines of the Amazonas State.

· In Aragua State the support was limited, focusing basically in design of a water quality
monitoring network in the Lake Valencia basin and improvement of laboratory equipment that
allowed an increment on sample processing capacity, with greater precision and in less time.

Component 3. Cartography Modernization.

The investment in this component represented approximately 27% of the total amount of the loan.
The execution in the first years was slow but in general, can be described as satisfactory, and
could be said that the central objective of modernizing the cartographic production systems in
digital format was fulfilled.
Main results were:

·Improvement in the information systems and communication, in addition to making it possible to
the Institute to market the end products via Internet;

·Procurement of high-technology equipment achieving a greater precision and quality in the
obtained products, at a relatively smaller cost;

·Physical adaptations that although low-cost, have a high impact since, makes it possible to
guarantee that exist the necessary physical conditions for the preservation of the state-of-the-art



                                                - 11 -

technology equipment installed;

·Training and specializations to the personnel of the Institute, for the purpose of improving its
daily operating and labor capacity;

·Studies of great social impact were conducted: CARTOSUR II with an investment of US $
6,000,000 and the Map of Risks of Avila with a total investment of US $ 1,530,000. The outcome
of these sub-projects was the one expected; however, in the first case the product has not been
made available yet to the potential clients since it was completed very close to the closure of the
project. In the second case, the product is already in the process of marketing and sale.
Furthermore, it has served as basis to conceive the National Plan for the Risk Management in
Venezuela. The Bank supported the implementation of a business plan to make products available
to the public by a cost recovery policy.

·One of the important achievements reached in the IGVSB constitutes the design for the
implementation of a database about geography, cartography, and census, with an inverted total of
US $ 790,000.00. It has only reached the conclusion of the conceptual design and 10% of the
implementation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as modest because the transformation of the
MARNR -one of the purposes of the project- was achieved during the project life. At preparation
of the project the Ministry scope covered only natural resources that were renewable. This scope
was enhanced during the project life, to encompass all natural resources, changing the Ministry
name to MARN. As compared with the situation prior to the project, at its completion the
Ministry is a much stronger organization, very well positioned as head of its sector. It has both
the capacity to contribute the environmental view to the strategic discussion within the
Government and between this on and the rest of the political system, and an improved efficiency
to conduct its daily business through its network if deconcentrated offices and decentralized
dependencies.

The project activities made a meaningful contribution to this goal, supporting studies and actions
to design and implement new organizational charts in the Headquarters and in some of the State
Offices (DEAs). A major contribution was the update of the technology of communications,
including the informatics network. For this to be possible, buildings in Headquarters and
decentralized offices were refurbished, renewing their wiring to make the networks reliable.
Software and hardware were renewed and upgraded and staff was trained.

Decentralization advanced through strengthening the DEAs and some Municipal Units, allowing
them to assume the provision of some environmental services, replacing the need to involve the



                                                - 12 -

central offices of MARN in some routine processes. The capacity of laboratories to conduct
surveys and on-site controls was enhanced, making less expensive and quicker and more reliable
the response to demands from the field. The Reference Laboratory in Hatillo became the
benchmark of the network of deconcentrated laboratories, serving at the same time as a major
training facility to improve capacities of the human capital in the network.

The Simón Bolívar Geographic Institute of Venezuela (IGVSB) was created to replace the former
Cartography Department of MARNR and during the project life consolidated itself as a reliable
source of technical inputs to its clients, providing charts, maps and the services of electronic
databases containing the most updated information about geographic and geomatic data. The
CARTOSUR II Program surveyed the Southern region employing the state-of-the-art technology
in radar-based imaginary, an experience that would permit the GVSB to offer its services to other
countries. The Risk Map of the Avila was a leading study, which offers non previously available
data of all sorts to be used by urban developers and scientists in the densely populated area of
Caracas to prevent situations like the Tragedy of Vargas. This study is the first step toward
establishing a national policy on territorial risks.

Most of the achievements of the project are the foundation of processes that should be continued
during the next years -with or without the support of Bank loans- to obtain their full impact.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
l The change of Government and the new National Constitution were factors that influenced the
    implementation of the project. Both were outside the control of the implementing Institution
    and of the Bank. Moreover, the emergency suffered in the state Vargas in December 1999
    affected the course of implementation of the project, by redefining a series of activities as well
    as the reassigning of financial and human resources.

l On December 2002 the strike of the oil industry resulted in a serious disruption of the public
    finances, leading to a serious shortage of counterpart resources which affected the pace of the
    project and the balance between loan and local resources.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l The frequent changes of Ministers of MARN, MPD and of the coordinator of the PCU.

l The lack of planning to request budget appropriations for the local contribution to the project
    resulted in delaying and the stoppage of many activities of the procurement plan of the second
    stage of the project.

l The MF should prevent delays in the financial allocation of the local counterpart.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l At the beginning of the project, the PCU had an excessive number of people, of little
    functional efficiency; in addition these personnel was rotated continually, concentrating
    functions in some persons and adjusting consonant positions to the new functions in others.




                                                     - 13 -

l Although the objectives of the project were designed in accordance with a current regulatory
    framework at the date of its inception, they had to be adjusted due to the new Constitutional
    order.

l The planning in the execution of the subcomponents was absent in the first stage of the
    project.

l The assignment of the project to the Office of the Vice Minister made it possible to
    consolidate the leadership in the guidance and management of the project and rendered more
    efficient its execution.

l To allow the interaction between the PCU and the Directions of the MARN and the IGVSB
    responsible for the execution of the project permitted to define better the expected outcomes
    and evaluate the results obtained.

l The appreciable delays -sometimes between three and six months- on the part of the
    authorities of the MARN (Directors) for decision-making on some sub projects; furthermore,
    the lack of planning in the execution of the activities, the little supervision on the contracted
    consultants and the delivered products, influenced the execution of the first stage, situation
    that was improving over time due to the assistance provided by the PCU.

l A selection of the adequate personnel to receive the training financed through the project
    could not be developed. Besides, MARN exerted very little control to avoid the loss of this
    trained staff, especially by the low-level salaries.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The only major change during the project life was the reallocation of US$1.9 million to the
preparation of a risk sensitivity map of the Vargas area, as part of the Emergency Program
activities; this task was executed by the Cartography Department of MARNR.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The ICR mission assigned a likely sustainable ranking to the project for the following reasons.
The Government of Venezuela supports the strengthening and consolidation of the general
policies on environmental management. The new tools that MARN has to implement its policies
and to play its regulatory entity role (obtained through this project) have made it possible to
consolidate MARN even more in the areas of cartography and modern models for institutional
management. However, the sustainability of these actions, undertaken with the project, requires
additional technical and financial support. Thus, MARN, through other financial projects
(program Venehmet, Delcan, etc.) has allocated financial and human resources that would allow
to consolidate the activities initiated through PNGA. With resources of the `regular` budget,
MARN has decided to finance the continuation in time of activities leading to improve and
modernize the action of the MARN as principal authority in the national environmental
management. The government has considered it necessary to continue with the program for
strengthening environmental management, and a formal request from the Government for



                                                  - 14 -

developing a second PNGA, which would make it possible to consolidate definitively areas
addressed in this initial project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Ministry has provided transitional funding and human resources by reallocating resources
from other ongoing programs funded with their own budget as well as other donors. The regular
budget is already providing support for the rest of the calendar year and will be able to
consolidate it during the next budgetary planning cycle. In the case of the Geographic Institute,
the capacity developed during the project implementation allowed them to develop a business plan
and a whole catalog of products for other government agencies as well as for private developers.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank overall performance during preparation is considered Satisfactory.
The issue of client ownership was not sufficiently addressed during preparation. A different sense
of client ownership registered from 2000 on, which was reflected in the revision of priorities and
the focusing of the resources in fewer but more attainable goals. The Bank team assisting the
Borrower in preparing the project was largely responsible for a design which included a well
thought cluster of activities to build capacity in areas requiring strengthening and develop a
minimum platform in terms of institutional arrangements, tools and infrastructure. A second
cluster of activities integrated the decentralization component for selected states and
municipalities. The third component was probably the one which was better integrated with the
Borrower and responded specifically to a master plan to upgrade the cartography area.
Nevertheless the clustering of activities was not accompanied by a strategic selection of indicators
and a monitoring design to verify progress in performance and development objectives. This initial
weakness was not corrected later during implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank overall performance during supervision is considered Highly Satisfactory.
As pointed out before, the project went through two significantly different phases with a turning
point in year 2000. The Bank carried out a total of 12 supervision missions. The first 4 missions
were carried out during the first phase (1997-2000) by the initial Bank team. A new Bank
environmental team for Venezuela took over the supervision of the project during its second
phase. The new team embarked in a thorough review of the project in the new context since the
approval of a new Constitution and a reform of the Ministry and Environmental Policy. During
the second phase, an effective collaboration with the Ministry was achieved through regular and
frequent supervision missions (8 in 3 years) and most of the main outputs occurred. Supervision
focused on the information provided by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
the team was able to meet with all the relevant technical areas of the Ministry and conduct several
site visits including the main executing agencies such as the Geographic Institute, the Central
Laboratory and the State of Bolivar.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank overall performance is considered Satisfactory
Although the two phases of the project are triggered by Venezuelan events, they also correspond



                                                  - 15 -

to decisions in the Bank management. In November 2000, despite the shrinking lending program
in the sub region the Bank decided to appoint a new environmental team to supervise the projects
in Venezuela in an effort to improve the performance of the portfolio.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower overall performance during preparation is considered Unsatisfactory.
The preparation of the project was centralized in an administrative area of the former Ministry of
Environment and Renewable Resources and its technical areas were not involved. The result of a
lack of participation of the relevant areas was a lack of integration of activities and of a strategic
design, which in turn led to a poor design in the monitoring and evaluation indicators and
processes to measure them. At the same time, although the activities to perform were listed, they
were not assigned to responsible executing areas. This caused many confusions and serious
delays in getting the project on its track during the first years.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government overall performance during implementation is considered Satisfactory.
The project suffered from a shortage of funds that was common to all the investment programs in
the country. Nevertheless, during the second phase, the project served as a strategic
administrative platform for the rest of the investment programs in the Ministry of the
Environment. Therefore, both the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance provided a
close supervision to the project and a continuous support to the Ministry of Environment to
provide counterpart funding and endorse the project in their respective areas.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Government overall performance during implementation is considered Satisfactory.
The project suffered from a shortage of funds that was common to all the investment programs in
the country. Nevertheless, during the second phase, the project served as a strategic
administrative platform for the rest of the investment programs in the Ministry of the
Environment. Therefore, both the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance provided a
close supervision to the project and a continuous support to the Ministry of Environment to
provide counterpart funding and endorse the project in their respective areas.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory.
The project was conceived under an administration near the end of its term; the new
administration which took over after 2000 was clearly very proactive in reassessing the usefulness
of the operation with a strategic vision. The Borrower decided to redefine the project as a
strategic tool and appoint the Vice minister of Environment to head the project. It is particularly
relevant to point out that the decision was clearly supported by a coordination achieved between
the three ministries involved (including Planning and Finance). As a result, the second phase
clearly showed an ownership and commitment which partially made up for the initial lack of
impulse and made it possible to achieve most of the goals sought in the design.

8. Lessons Learned

Most of the lessons are common to almost every Bank project that has been implemented without



                                                 - 16 -

proper attention to technical assistance and capacity building needs of the client.
·       The assumption of the project as national policy of Government, and the direction of the
project by high-ranking authorities evidences the commitment of the Government in the execution
of the project.
·       The suitable targeting and clarity in the objectives of the project ensure its later
completion.
·       The participation of the government staff is critic in the design of the project.
·       The training of the personnel who would manage the coordination of the implementation
of the project is a key factor to improve the probabilities of success.
·       From the start, the team in charge of the formulation of the project and the PCU staff
should be trained on the theory and practice of management of projects.
·       During project formulation, the country team should be accompanied by an institutional
expert that at the same time trains the personnel on Bank methodologies for the project
preparation (PCD, PAD, logical framework).
·       When necessary, the execution of activities referred to updating or creation of standards,
regulations, or laws should consider the difficulty of bringing about their approval, because it
depends on agencies external to the institution.
·       Infrastructure investments should be defined by the client after complete feasibility
analysis.
·       The flexible treatment of the operation by the Bank team during the second phase was an
important factor to adapt the project to the new needs and to the new political and social
situations of the country without having to interrupt its implementation.
·       The permanent evaluation of the performance of the unit and its interaction with the Bank
and senior government staff the executors was a key factor. The permanence of the members of
the PCU for the length of the project is desirable. When this was achieved, it allowed to better
understand the purposes of the project, and to develop abilities and skills to achieve the strategic
macro objectives of the project.
·       To execute a project related to decentralization, it was essential to consult and to interact
more with the states, municipalities and communities, and to define clearly the competences of
each one of the actors, the reforms and the reinforcing of the political motivation would be thus
achieved in order to assume the new competencies.
·       The Bank team should have assisted in the implementation of the evaluation systems of the
project. The impact and process indicators not only should have been defined but also the
mechanisms to evaluate them should have been developed.
·       The incorporation of the Unit of Evaluation into the organization chart of the PCU was
essential to perform control measures in the management, the results, and the impact expected of
the project. The ad-hoc evaluation system allowed smooth daily management the project, the
control and prevention of unfavorable situations regarding the execution of the activities. With the
system of evaluation any anomaly in the execution of the project could be detected on time, and
consequently the solutions can be suggested as rapidly as possible.
·       Having an expert in the implementation of the project with experience in targeting and
structure of projects facilitates the formulation of the annual plans of action. The lack of this
resource endangered the timely delivery of the convened outputs.
·       The Bank should have contributed strongly to the training of the members of the PCU and
of the project managers. During the development of the project this is essential in the areas of


                                                 - 17 -

monitoring, project control, and evaluation.
·        Handling of all the information relative to the project and understanding its internal logic is
facilitated by previous knowledge by the executors and Task Managers of the economic and social
assessment studies of the project as well as those studies that support the operation. During the
first phase this handling was poor.
·        Public consultations are inexpensive activities and permit community participation and
impede unilateral decision-making and the generation of tensions and ruptures with communities,
although they not always end up in agreements. Between participants.
·        Permitting the transfer of financial resources to third parties for the organization of
activities framed in the project complicated the implementation of the project because an efficient
mechanism to do so was not defined previously.
·        Numerous requests of contracting studies and advisory services to individual consultants
originated a large number of activities in the category of Technical Assistance and produced
scattered information whose results were not the expected ones.
·        Given by the temporary nature that characterizes projects, it is advisable to establish a
reward system for the PCU for the purpose of promoting more efficient arrangements, as well as a
system of annual wage improvements to incentive the personnel who works in the projects and to
diminish the negative effect that causes the uncertainty and the labor instability.
·        For a better management of the financial resources of the project through a third party
(UNDP, BANDES, etc.), it should be established in advance the functions of this entity as well as
the obligation to follow the instructions of the executing agency, with the purpose of avoiding
difficulties in the course of the project execution as a result of the assumption of additional
functions.

If a Second Environmental Management Project were to be developed, these lessons should be
taken into account, especially those which address the role expected from the Bank in assisting
decisively in the organization and intensively training of the PCU in the best practices of project
management.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As an important premise it should be considered the circumstance that the project implementation
occurred under two different governments and of two different legal frameworks. This situation is
most important because it forced to perform a deep review of the components of the project and
of the designed activities, to align them with the new National Constitution, especially with its
principle of co-responsibility between the citizen and the government, regarding the utilization and
conservation of the environmental heritage. Thus, it is advisable to consider two stages in its
implementation.
First Stage: (1997-2000). This stage covers the events occurred from the beginning of the project
in 1997 until the end of the 2000. In this stage several important changes within both the
framework of the national public policies and the legal framework of the country took place, as a
consequence of the promulgation of the new Constitution. This stage of the project was
characterized by a slow physical and budgetary execution. Some of the factors that influenced this
slow pace were the limited knowledge of the executors of the management of multilateral projects
and the confusion of the phases of implementation of the project with the organization of its



                                                 - 18 -

execution. This was a stage where serious problems of managing were originated; there were
three coordinators of the Coordinating Unit, the responsibility for the project was under a
supporting unit of the Ministry (Division of Planning and Budget), and not under the management
of a strategic unit of the Ministry. The project was not assumed by the rest of the management
units of the Ministry as theirs; even there was lack of knowledge concerning its existence. This
implied a certain degree of organizational disorder with regard to the direction of the project (its
mission and vision).
Second Stage: (2001- 2004). This phase was marked by the reformulation of the loan with the
purpose of making it possible to overcome the obstacles of the first stage and achieve an efficient
execution. Both parties assumed commitments of joint participation in the redesign of the project,
taking into account the new Ministry vision of territorialized management. With the reformulation
of the project the Coordination Unit was assigned functionally the Vice Minister, who would
function as Coordinator General. Several functions were delegated to the Technical Coordination
of the project to improve its flexibility and efficiency, becoming the project Executive
Coordination. The re-design of the subcomponents and the "new" activities were product of
exchanges and participatory meetings with the different officials of the Ministry. With the
deepening of the actions of the project in accordance with some general principles of the new
Constitution, the implementation of the project was inspired in the sustainability and greater
participation of the communities in its execution. The institutional reorganization of the Ministry
favored the implementation of the project in this stage, since the revised general policies
(preservation of water resources, strengthening of the environmental education, strengthening of
the environmental ordering, and the modernization of the management of the MARN) fully
supported the implementation of the project. The condition as "coordinator" of the Unit allowed a
more effective scope of its actions and made it possible to guide and evaluate the action of the
Ministry concerning the project. This contributed to consolidate a high-level effective leadership
that steered the Directorates of the MARN to achieve their goals with greater ease. The Managers
of the Directorates of the MARN were responsible for the implementation of each one for the
activities included in this stage of the project. In turn, the MARN provided the assistance of
external professionals that formed the project Coordination Unit (PCU); this Coordinating Unit
had its functions defined in the Operating Manual of the project.
In this stage of the project, despite the fact that the indicators of impact and of process were not
structured nor developed, the executive coordination of the PCU set up an "ad hoc" evaluation
system that served as methodological tool to monitor and control the phases of execution of every
activity. With this system, the state of progress of the Procurement Plan and the action (in terms
of efficiency of the time of response) both of the executors (directors) and of the Bank could be
determined in real time. The implementation and enhancement of this tool permitted the
professionalization of the PCU and the development of a device for budgetary planning for the
Ministry. The coordinating function of the PCU was strengthened with the use of this tool.
A baseline of reference to establish comparisons was not available from the beginning of the
implementation of the project. Nor there was a system of objective indicators that were verifiable,
replicable and comparable in time and space. In spite of that, in 2001, a mechanism of evaluation
of the execution of the project activities encompassing both the action of the PCU, the executors
and the Bank was implemented. For this reason, the results of the project are analyzed from the
quantitative and qualitative point of view.
2.1 Quantitative results of the project



                                                 - 19 -

Even though there were intents to define performance indicators, these were never approved nor
updated by the PNGA. However, it was possible to evaluate partially the results of the project by
virtue of some outcome indicators that were established to determine reliably the change and
magnitude induced by the achieved results. Although there was a considerable reduction of the
number of subjects in the project (from 22 to 10), the activities were numerous (495) and they
were not weighed one against the others. So that, only with base in information of
physical-budgetary execution, the following results appear, which only represent the percentage of
execution of the loan respect to the total amount, by stages.
a) Physical-financial execution of the first stage. During year 1997 the financial execution of the
PNGA was of U.S$ 424,461 which represents 0.94 % of the total amount of the loan. For 1998
the financial execution was around U.S$ 1.242.114, equivalent to 2.76%. In 1999, the percentage
reached 3,45%, being disbursed in that year U.S.$ 1,556,699. At the end of 2000 the
disbursements increased significantly, disbursing some U.S. $ 7,000,000, reaching a percentage of
14,58% of the total of the loan and an increase of 421% in the disbursements respect to the
previous year. Despite it, considering the time of implementation in this phase of the project
(more than three years) the execution did not advanced enough.
b) Physical-financial execution of the second stage. In this stage of "renegotiation" of the project
and of execution of a new plan of procurement, there was a better interaction between the PCU
and the General Directions and Regions of the MARN. For the year 2001 U.S.$ 9,339,218 were
disbursed. An effective monitoring of the execution of the first stage (U.S.$ 20,000,000) was
performed. As of that moment it had been possible to execute 45% of the total amount of the
loan. In 2004 (last year of the project), after the agreement to extend the execution of the plan of
procurement established for the year 2001 and 2002, it was possible to conclude it, but only
concerning the activities with external financing, since the local contribution could not be
delivered totally because the budget transfers were not carried out on a timely basis.
c) Investment by categories. In this project the highest investment was carried out in the category
of Goods, which amounts to 60% of the disbursed amount, followed by the category referred to
Consultancies, that reached 23% of the disbursement and, in the third place, the category of
Works that represents 9% of the total. The categories that resulted with lower investments were
the referred to publicity, informatics platform and operating expenses, which amounted to 9% of
the total disbursed to may 2004.
2.2 Qualitative Results of the project
·       It made possible to enhance the knowledge of the staff members of the MARN about the
implementation of projects with multilateral financing.
·       It generated an important institutional experience in the logical design of projects and in
the strengthening of the comprehensive environmental management.
·       The design and implementation of the system of evaluation of the PCU, as an "ad hoc"
tool for planning, supervision, and control of the execution of the procurement plan of the project,
generated an interesting and efficient experience as a new form to monitor projects.
·       Policies of dissemination were promoted, to avoid duplicity of efforts and to present
documents produced by the MARN to the users.
·       A Library of the PNGA was created, offering organized information to interested persons,
including the use of network LAN or Intranet.
·       By the dynamic and evolutionary characteristic of the projects, the flexibility of the
operation was an important factor to adapt the project to the new needs and to the new political



                                                 - 20 -

and social situations of the country, without having to interrupt its execution. Without a doubt,
the constant communication between the PCU and the World Bank made it possible to flexibly the
different investments and to make more efficient the global impact of the project.
·       The institution strengthening through the implementation of the principle of the
knowledge management -or what is the same, the transfer and management of the information
through the incorporation of new technologies for management of the information-, brought
numerous benefits, among which should be pointed out a better and greater communication
among the staff at the central and regional levels in order to achieve an environmental
comprehensive management. With the installed computer platform and the voice and data
network, now the management of the MARN is more efficient and effective. The environmental
management of the MARN now is, from the technological standpoint, of high profile. This also
made it possible to better understand the directives of the project, and develop abilities and skills
so that the strategic macro objectives of the project were achieved.
·       It was possible to conceive an electronic permission system, which is going to manage a
database with all the permissions and authorizations that the MARN grants.
·       The MARN was strengthened to be able to establish the national strategy of surveillance
and environmental control. Alliances were achieved with all the organizations that have to do with
this matter, such as Civil Defense, Armed Force, and all the related Ministries and organizations.
·       It made it possible for the MARN to have adequate equipment to perform its surveillance
and control functions.
·       It made it possible to make an important effort in environmental education to the
community concerning the utilization and conservation of the environmental heritage.
·       It made possible to the MARN to become the adequate consultant to the National
Assembly to review and update the laws that define the environmental management in Venezuela.
·       It strengthened the MARN as coordinator of the process of Demarcation of Habitat and
Lands of the Indigenous Communities in eight (8) states, adapting its mission to the new
Constitution.
·       It made it possible to implement new Models of Management for the institutional
development of the Regional Directions chosen as pilots (Amazonas and Bolivar) who become
tutors to repeat the experience in other Regional Directions.
·       It made it possible to strengthen and modernize the systems of cartographic production in
digital format of the IGVSB. This technological change in the Institute improved the systems of
Geographic information and of telecommunication, strengthening the technical capability of the
Institute
·       It made it possible to strengthen the technical and administrative capability of the MARN
through the implementation of new information systems.
2.3 Achievement of the project objectives
As said, the key indicators of expected performance were not defined in the initial design of the
project. As a result, the periodic measurements of its performance that had to be made could not
be done as expected. Accordingly there exists no precise and objective data that could determine
whether the objectives of the project were effectively fulfilled and to determine to what extent the
initial situation changed.    However, even though the project underwent important changes
­coming both from the adaptations to the changes of Government and consequent policies and
from the reassignment of resources after the tragedy occurred in Vargas in December 1999-, the
general objective of restructuring and modernizing the environmental management in Venezuela


                                                 - 21 -

continued to be served throughout the life of the loan agreement. As a result, the project always
advanced in the correct direction in accordance with the proposed Development Objective. The
specific objectives of the project were updated in order to adapt them to the new legal, political,
economic and social reality of the Country.
Component 1 Modernization of the MARN: The total investment carried out by this component
represents 54% of the total amount of the loan. It can be affirmed that, in general and after its
re-sizing in the 2001, the results in this component are satisfactory. Today, the MARN has an
infrastructure adequate to perform its functions as regulatory entity in the National Environmental
Management. The knowledge management is part of the current policies both of the MARN and
of the IGVSB, who assumed the management of the territory as a basis of their policy and the
information system for the management as the principal tool to implement it.
Although difficult to measure, there was progress in the process of deconcentration of the
institution through the pilot projects carried out through Component 2 "Support to the
Deconcentrated and Decentralized Management". The total investment in this component
amounts to 19% of the loan.         Indeed, the Regional Directorates of Bolivar and Amazonas
managed to implement advanced management models, and the Office of the Director of Nueva
Esparta succeeded in to strengthening its management through the decentralization of functions
toward the Municipalities. The "window effects" of these cases triggered similar developments in
other regional directions of the Ministry. Finally, without a doubt, Component 3 "Cartographic
Modernization" was consolidated. The investment in this component represented approximately
27% of the total amount of the loan. The central objective of modernizing the cartographic
production systems in digital format was achieved in 100%. This technological change in the
IGVS improved the information and communication systems, making it possible to fortify the
bonds among the personnel and with the client, exchanging knowledge and information by
electronic media, in addition to marketing the end products via Internet. On the other hand,
studies of great national impact were conducted, such as CARTOSUR II with an investment of
US $ 6,000,000 and the Risk Map of Avila with a total investment of US $ 1,530,000. In the
second case the dissemination process begun and the product is already in the process of
marketing and sale. Furthermore, it has served as basis to conceive the National Plan for the
Management of Risks in Venezuela.

3.2 Factors subject to the Control of the World Bank

·        The project was designed with very general definitions. There is a feeling that there was
not effective participation of the staff members of the Ministry in the original design of the project
and, accordingly, little importance was given to the magnitude and complexity of the project.
·        The action of the World Bank in the first years was insufficient from the standpoint of the
supervision. The evaluations that arose from the Missions of Supervision did not reflect the
critical situation.
·        In the First Stage, the World Bank permitted an inadequate administrative and financial
management on the part of the PCU. It accepted that the procurement bypassed the majority of
the procedures for selection of contractors, favoring direct allocations. Even the Audits were not
contracted in the right time. In spite of that, in the second Stage of the project the World Bank
strengthened its role of supervision.
·        In some cases the responses of the Bank to the requests and queries of the Executive



                                                  - 22 -

Coordinator were slow and this had a negative impact on the general performance of the
activities. The evaluation system set up by the PCU confirmed the recurrence of this situation.
·       The supervision of the BM focused on the revision of the financial management of the
PNGA and it never obtained that the indicators of base and impact the project required were
elaborated. By this reason, the results obtained with the investments made were not considered,
in principle, important.
·       After numerous discussions with the MARN, the World Bank was flexible to accept
changes in the allocations of resources by categories allowing a better performance of the project
in the second stage.
The World Bank carried out limited visits to verify the execution of activities in site, with the
exception of some isolated cases, as the Environmental Laboratory of the MARN, located in El
Hatillo (a visit carried out in the year of extension) and to the IGVSB (since the year 2002).

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
-Increase in well prioritized environmental     Monitoring of indicators not implemented
problems at the State and Municipal level,
focusing on explicit targets and cost effective
strategies for attaining these targets.
-Private sector demand for services
increases by 5% per year
-Environmental services and industries
sector increases 10% per year starting in
year 2000
-Change in policy reforms and improvements
in regulatory framework that would create
incentives for the private sector participation
-Redefinition of roles and functions of
MARNR at national, state, and municipal
levels in pilot sites.
-State/municipal Action Plan prepared
-Baseline environmental quality and
awareness indicators "defined"




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
Average time for issuing operating permits      Monitoring of indicators not implemented
reduced by:
-Year 3: 5% (Base year: Year 0)
-Year 4: 10%
-Year 5: 20%
Average time for issuing permits for new
projects reduced by:
-Year 3: 5% (Base year: Year 0)
-Year 4: 10%
-Year 5: 20%
Certification system established by the end of
year 2 and No. of private firms certified for
EA studies
Percent of total medium-large projects with
environmental assessment permits
Supervision/mitigation plans monitored and
evaluated by the private sector (% of the total
supervision plans for each calendar year:
-Year 4: 30%
-Year 5: 50%
Access to the MARNR data bases (No. of
formal inquiries from the private sector per
year):
-Year 2: -
-Year 3: -
-Year 4: 10
-Year 5: 20
% MARNR projects submitting EA studies:
-Year 2: 50%
-Year 3: 60%
-Year 4: 80%
-Year 5: 100%
Certification system:
-Year 1: TORs and feasibility study for




                                                                   - 24 -

certification system completed
-Year 2: Certification laboratory functional
-Year 3: Certification system becomes
operational
-Year 4: 5 laboratories certified
-Year 5: 10 laboratories certified
National Reference Environmental
Laboratory:
-Year 2: Detailed project completed
-Year 3: NREL funcional
Clean and Environmental Technologies
Transfer Department:
-Year 1: Feasibility study on the
establishment of a Department completed
-Year 4: Clean and Environmental
Technologies Transfer Department
established
Market-based Economic Instruments:
-Year 2: Feasibility study on the use of
selected market-based economic instruments
completed
-Year 4: Pilot on the use of selected
market-based economic instruments
completed
State of the environment reports for
Venezuela produced in years 2 and 5
-Year 4: Establish framework for completing
ambient standards with realistic ambient
quality targets over time for key ecosystems
No. of inquiries to environmental data base
for planning purposes:
-Year 3: 5
-Year 4: 10
-Year 5: 20
By year 5, the following revised or new
legislation would be prepared:
-Water and water resources management
-Soil conservation
-Management of solid waste
-Management of toxic waste
-Biodiversity conservation
-Trade and environmental protection
No. of industries in the "self reporting
system" increasing by:
-Year 2: 10% (Base year: Year 0)
-Year 3: 20%
-Year 4: 40%
-Year 5: 60%
No. of companies certified for providing
inspection/laboratory services:
-Year 2: 5
-Year 3: 10
-Year 4: 20
-Year 5: 30
% discrepancies between "self-reports" and
MARNRs inspections:
-Year 3: 50% (Base year)
-Year 4: 40%
-Year 5: 35%
System for integrated environmental and
socio-economic planning:
-Year 2: Feasibility study completed
-Year 3: National land use plan completed




                                                - 25 -

-Year 4: System fully operational
-Year 5: System used in the preparation of
the Plan de la Nacion
National environmental action plan:
-Year 1: Agreement reached on table of
contents, methology and schedule
-Year 4: National Environmental Action Plan
completed

1End of project




                                               - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Modernization of MARNR                                      25.28           24.15             95.5
Environmental Management at the State and Municipal          5.83             8.44           144.8
Levels
Cartography Modernization                                    9.57           12.41            129.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         40.68           45.00
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.27
 Price Contingencies                                         3.05
                        Total Project Costs                 45.00           45.00
                  Total Financing Required                  45.00           45.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          2.28              0.00         0.25          4.00         6.53
                                  (1.95)           (0.00)      (0.22)          (0.00)       (2.17)
2. Goods                          13.20             1.27         3.61          0.00         18.08
                                  (8.28)           (1.09)      (3.10)          (0.00)      (12.47)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        14.86          0.53         15.39
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.36)         (0.00)      (13.36)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          5.01         5.01
Recurrent and                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
Non-Recurrent Operating
Expenditures
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          15.48             1.27        18.72          9.54         45.01
                                 (10.23)           (1.09)      (16.68)         (0.00)      (28.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          5.04             0.00         0.00           0.00        5.04
                                  (3.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.00)
2. Goods                          10.05            0.38         0.07           0.00        10.50
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)



                                                - 27 -

  3. Services                              0.00               0.00             28.00             0.00             28.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (18.33)            (0.00)           (18.33)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Recurrent and                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Non-Recurrent Operating
  Expenditures
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                15.10              0.38             28.07             0.00             43.55
                                          (3.00)             (0.00)           (18.33)            (0.00)           (21.33)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Modernization of MARNR        16.62        11.16                    12.91         11.23                 77.7     100.6
Environmental                  5.45         0.90                     3.57         4.87                  65.5     541.1
Management at the State
and Municipal Levels
Cartography                    5.93         4.94                    11.52         0.90                  194.3     18.2
Modernization




                                                          - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project benefits may be estimated as a function of the: (i) improved information systems,
streamlining and decentralization of environmental management services such as land use planning
and permitting; (ii) improved mapping and information systems to facilitate cadastres and efficient
natural resource exploitation and protection, resulting in improved environmental management
and increased land values; (iii) increased number of qualified environmental goods and services
providers; (iv) improved environmental quality data, policy analysis and program evaluation
capacity at the national, regional, and municipal levels; (v) better enforced property rights; and
(vi) reduced negative environmental impact and more cost effective pollution control and
enforcement. It will also strengthen the regulatory framework and environmental monitoring and
evaluation capacity in the regions, thus providing the pre-conditions for appropriate enforcement
of environmental standards, and improved assessment of environmental problems and definition of
environmental strategies and action plans in the future. Indirect benefits will be improved water
and air quality and regulated solid, liquid, and toxic waste disposal.




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/16/1996                3    TTL (1); PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             SPEC. (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             (1)
              12/8/1996                 2    ENVIRONMENTAL (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/17/1997                5    TTL (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL (3);
                                             PUBLIC SPEC. (1)
              05/25/1997                5    TTL (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             (1); PUBLIC SECTOR SPEC.
                                             (1), CONSULTANT (2)

 Supervision
              10/12/1998                4    TTL (1);                         S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL (1);
                                             INTITUTIONAL (1); FIN.
                                             MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
              03/26/1999                3    TTL (1); ENVIRONMENTAL           S               S
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL (1)
              10/03/1999                4    TTL (1); POLLUTION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENV.
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              05/04/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             FORESTRY EXPERT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              12/14/2000                3    TTL (1);                         U               U
                                             NAT.RES.ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
              06/30/2001                3    TTL (1); ENVIRONMENTAL           S               S
                                             (1); SR. SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL
                                             SOCIETY SPEC. (1);
              01/30/2002                3    ENVIRONMENTAL /TTL (1);          S               S
                                             SR. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             AND CIVIL SOCIETY SPEC.
                                             (1); GEOMATICS SPEC
                                             (CONS.) (1)
              11/29/2002                3    DECENTRALIZATION SPEC            S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1); TTL (1)
              04/28/2003                6    ENVIRONMENTAL /TTL (1);          S               S
                                             SR. INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
                                             SPEC. (1); SR. SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL
                                             SOCIETY SPEC. (1);



                                              - 30 -

                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2)
               08/29/2003              6    ENVIRONMENTAL /TTL (1);           S    S
                                            SR. INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
                                            SPEC. (1); SR. SOCIAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIL
                                            SOCIETY SPEC. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            SR. FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               29                        95.20
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    19                        41.00
  Supervision                          121.9                        307.15
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Venezuela - Interim Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Report No. 16471 of April 8, 1997 and Report
No. 25125 of November 18, 2002. The World Bank

Project Information Document (PID). Report No. PIC3392 of August 5, 1997. The World Bank.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Report No.17130 of October 20, 1997. The World Bank.

Identification Mission Terms of Reference and Aide-Memoire. September, 1996. The World Bank.

Preparation Mission Terms of Reference and Aide-Memoire. December, 1996. The World Bank.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference and Aide-Memoire. February, 1997. The World Bank.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiation. September, 1997. The World Bank.


Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement. Loan Number 4253. December 22, 1997. The World Bank.

Amendment to the Loan Agreement. November 9, 1999. The World Bank.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Management Letters and Project Status Reports of all
the Supervision Missions. September 1996 - December 2003. The World Bank.


Borrower project implementation documents

Informes de Avance.Project Implementation Unit.




                                                 - 34 -

- 35 -

