Page  1
November 19, 1996
Mr. Luis Raúl Matos Azocar
Minister of Finance
Republic of Venezuela
Re:
Japanese Grant for Proposed Environmental Management Project
Grant Number TF029604
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred and fifty thousand American Dollars ($550,000) (the 
Grant) to the Republic of Venezuela (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By__________________________________
Paul Isenman
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By: Luis Raúl Matos Azócar
       Authorized Representative
Date: December 9, 1996
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Conduct field studies related to the National Cartography Center (Servicio
Autónomo
de
Geografía
y
Cartografía
Nacional
)
including inter alia the preparation of the conceptual 
drawings, engineering designs and the schedule and the cost estimates for the 
construction of the building.
(b)
Conduct studies necessary for defining the content and the costs related to the 
reorganization of the Recipient’s Ministry of Environmental and Renewable Resources 
(MARNR) and the strengthening of its environmental core functions, and the pilot 
decentralization component.
(c)
Preparation of a project proposal, and an implementation plan and schedule, based on the 
studies conducted under the Japanese Grant Agreement between the Republic of 
Venezuela and the Bank dated December 29, 1995.
(d)
Conduct a stakeholders’ consultation program to validate the above project proposal and 
to ensure a broad acceptance of the project proposal.
(e)
Carry out  study tours for key public officials, selected between the Recipient and the 
Bank, to exchange experiences with officials in equivalent positions in countries that 
have already implemented some of he measures proposed to strengthen the 
environmental management in Venezuela.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, workshops (including expenditures for  
rental of facilities and audio-visual equipment, trainer’s fees, and per diem for trainees) and 
study tours required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected  that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1997 After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank, in cooperation with 
MARNR, and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
Venezuela on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for 
the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Page  3
Republic of Venezuela to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been 
suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
