Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4253-VE
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Management and Cartography Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 22 , 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4253-VE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Page  2
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Investment Program” means each of the annual investment programs 
approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“CORDIPLAN” means the Borrower’s Oficina Central de Coordinación y 
Planificación de la Presidencia de la República, the Central Office of Coordination 
and Planning of the Presidency of the Borrower;
(c)
“EA” means environmental assessment (evaluación ambiental) as referred to 
in the Borrower’s decree (decreto) No. 1257 dated March 13, 1996 and published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette dated April 25, 1996;
(d)
“MARNR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Renewable 
Natural Resources, Ministerio del Ambiente y de los Recursos Naturales Renovables;
(e)
“MARNR Revised Organizational Structure” means the new organizational 
structure (organigrama) for MARNR, as such  organigrama is set forth  in the letter of 
even date from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations;
(g)
“Operational Manual" means the operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth the criteria, rules and procedures for the implementation of the 
Project, including the Project institutional set-up, organizational structure and 
functions of the PCU (as hereinafter defined), environmental rules, procurement 
procedures, flow of Project funds and Project monitoring and evaluation; such manual 
to be adopted by MARNR pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(h)
“Operational Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of the MARNR Revised Organizational Structure including: (i) the 
setting up, and making operational, of each of the new units (direcciones generales 
sectoriales, servicios autónomos, oficinas ministeriales, direcciones estadales 
ambientales and other units) with adequate staffing, functions, budgets and internal 
structure; (ii) the strengthening of the autonomy of the new state offices 
(direcciones estadales ambientales); (iii) the strengthening of the new office of 
planning; (iv) the updating and modernization of administrative procedures; and (v) 
the implementation of an information system;
(i)
“Participation Agreement” means each of the agreements, satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower and each Selected State (as 
Page  3
hereinafter defined) and Selected Municipality (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“PCU” means the administrative unit, within MARNR, established by the 
Borrower, as indicated in the Borrower’s letter to the Bank dated December 2, 1997, 
such unit to be in charge of the overall Project coordination;
(k)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators, satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of measuring progress in the implementation of the 
Project and achievement of its objectives as such indicators are included in the 
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
(l)
“SAGA” means the Servicio Autónomo de Gestión Ambiental, the autonomous 
unit for environmental management, to be established within MARNR pursuant to the 
MARNR Revised Organizational Structure, and which unit shall operate as a single 
window permit agency with authority, inter alia, to set and collect charges for all 
services provided by MARNR (including permits, pollution control and renewable natural 
resource concessions);
(m)
“SAGA Financial Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding 
the financial operation of SAGA including the increase in charges for environmental 
permits, such plan to be submitted to the Bank pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(n)
“SAGECAN” means the Borrower’s national department of geography and 
cartography, Servicio Autónomo  de Geografía y Cartografía Nacional;
(o)
“Selected Municipalities” means the municipalities, municipalidades, of  
Miranda and Carirubana (within the state of Falcón) and Marcano and Mariño (within the 
state of Nueva Esparta) and any other additional or substitute municipality agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(p)
“Selected States” means the states, estados, of Falcón and Nueva Esparta 
or any other additional or substitute state agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
and
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single 
currency for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MARNR, and with the participation of the Selected States and 
Selected Municipalities in respect of Part B of the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with the Operational Manual, the Annual Investment 
Programs and appropriate engineering, administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MARNR, 
enter into agreements (Participation Agreements) with each of the Selected States and 
Selected Municipalities providing for their respective participation under Part B of 
Page  5
the Project under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Participation Agreements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) and 
(c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall furnish to the 
Bank:
(a)
not later than January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31 of each year 
of Project execution, quarterly progress reports on the Project, of such scope and 
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) information on 
the progress achieved during the previous quarter in the implementation and in the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project based, inter alia, on the Performance 
Indicators; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues derived from the 
implementation of the Project; (iii) updated implementation and disbursements 
schedules for the following two quarters; (iv) performance by the Selected States and 
Selected Municipalities; and (v) status of compliance by the Borrower with its 
obligations under this Agreement and, if the case may be, a plan of actions detailing 
the adjustments and remedial action to be taken for its compliance with such 
obligations; and
(b)
for its review and approval, not later than September 30 of each year of 
Project execution, a proposed annual investment program providing for the activities, 
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of each Part of the Project 
during the upcoming year.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) (i) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MARNR, shall:
(a)
during the last quarter of each year, starting in 1998, hold annual 
reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on: (i) progress in the execution 
and in the achievement of the objectives of the Project based on, among other factors, 
the Performance Indicators; (ii) performance of the PCU; (iii) experience with the 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; (iv) the proposed annual investment 
program for the Project in the upcoming year; and (v) any changes in the Project 
design and implementation that may be necessary; and
(b)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
attainment of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or 
cause to be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under 
this Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for 
the efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, through the MARNR, for the purposes of an 
efficient and adequate execution and coordination of the Project, operate and maintain 
Page  6
the PCU with an organizational structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the 
Bank. Without limitation to the foregoing, the PCU shall be headed by a technical 
coordinator, with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and shall have 
overall responsibility for Project coordination including: (a) preparation of the 
proposed annual investment programs; (b) setting up and operating the Project 
monitoring system; and (c) preparation of quarterly progress reports, processing of 
disbursement requests, management of the Special Account and contracting of Project 
audits.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) implement the SAGA Financial Plan in 
accordance with its respective terms; (b) implement, and thereafter maintain in 
operation, the MARNR Revised Organizational Structure with adequate and efficient 
internal coordination mechanisms, functions, budget and staffing and in accordance 
with the Operational Plan; and (c) maintain the system of financial management adopted 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (f) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower, through MARNR, shall have submitted to the Bank the SAGA 
Financial Plan;
(b)
the Operational Manual shall have been adopted by MARNR;
(c)
the Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
MARNR Revised Organizational Structure has been duly approved by the Borrower’s 
council of ministers (consejo de ministros);
(d)
the Bank shall have received the Operational Plan;
(e)
the Borrower shall have awarded and executed the respective contracts for 
the construction of the MARNR central office under Part A. 8 (a) of the Project and 
the construction of the new El Hatillo laboratory under Part A.2 (a) of the Project; 
and
(f)
the Borrower, through MARNR, shall have adopted, and made operational, a 
system of financial management for the Project satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date March 23, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Dirección General Sectorial
de Finanzas Públicas
Edificio Norte, Piso 5
Centro Simón Bolívar
Caracas 1010, Venezuela
Telex: 
24215 HDACP
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Pedro Luis Echeverría 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other
10,500,000
100% of foreign
than informatic
expenditures,
equipment under
100% of local
Part A.8 (e)
expenditures
of the Project)
(ex-factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
12,500,000
100%
services and
Training
(3)
Informatic equipment   500,000
20%
under Part A.8 (e)
of the Project
(4)
Satellite imagery
 2,200,000
100% of foreign 
and aerial photographs
expenditures and 
under Part A.1 of
80% of local
the Project
expenditures
(5)
Unallocated
 2,300,000
_________
TOTAL
28,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees; (iv) subsistence expenses for trainees; (v) 
scholarships and fellowships for training courses locally or abroad; and (vi) study 
tours and internships locally or abroad.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $2,800,000, may be made in respect of Categories set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after May 15, 1997 or one year prior to the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later; (b) payments made for expenditures for equipment under Part C of 
the Project unless a new cartography center has been completed and made operational to 
the satisfaction of the Bank; and (c) payments made for expenditures under Part B of 
the Project unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that: (i) 
the respective Participation Agreement has been duly executed; (ii) the respective 
Selected State or Selected Municipality has established an environmental office with 
an organizational structure, functions, and staffing satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) 
the respective Selected State or State Municipality has provided its respective 
financing share of Project activities for 1998 in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, including the necessary and appropriate resources, as a separate line item and 
in an amount not less than twenty five percent (25%) of its 1998 budget for Project 
activities, required for the operation of the respective environmental office; and 
(iv) the respective Selected State or Selected Municipality has appointed the head of 
the respective environmental office with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent each, excluding the first five contracts; (b) contracts 
for services with consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
contracts for services with individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (d) all Training expenditures; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) strengthening 
MARNR by improving its capabilities for environmental assessments, management, 
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations and environmental planning and 
education; (b) strengthening and deepening the decentralization process for 
environmental management and planning; and (c) strengthening the Borrower’s 
institutional capabilities in connection with cartography services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development of MARNR 
1.
A program to improve the carrying out of EAs and to establish a certification 
system of firms carrying out EAs through: (a) the review, updating, publication and 
distribution of manuals on preparation of EAs; (b) the design and implementation of a 
certification program, including acquisition of equipment and training related 
thereto, for private firms and consultants to carry out EAs; and (c) the design and 
implementation of a computerized tracking system for EAs.
Page  10
2.
(a)
The conversion of the existing El Hatillo laboratory into a national 
reference laboratory including building construction, acquisition and utilization of 
office, informatic and laboratory equipment and furniture, training and other 
technical assistance related thereto; and (b) the establishment and operation of a 
national certification system for environmental laboratories including the acquisition 
and utilization of office, informatic and laboratory equipment, training and other 
technical assistance related thereto.
3.
Establishment and operation of a department for environmental technology within 
MARNR’s Dirección General de Calidad Ambiental including information systems, studies 
and development of data bases.
4. 
A program to improve the environmental approval mechanisms, including those for 
approval for operation of industrial plants, such program to include the establishment 
and maintenance of an inventory of such plants, a program to evaluate small- and 
medium-size industries, the development of an environmental information system and 
acquisition and utilization of office and computer equipment, training and other 
technical assistance related thereto.
5.
(a)
Strengthening of the legal unit within MARNR, including acquisition and 
utilization of data bases and informatic equipment and related training of legal 
staff; (b) studies on environmental legislation and regulations to propose adjustments 
necessary to introduce market-based instruments; and (c) training of selected judges 
and attorneys on environmental matters.
6.
A program to improve the level of enforcement of environmental laws and 
regulations through: (a) the implementation of a process of self-reporting by industry 
with systematic checks by MARNR inspectors; (b) the design and operation of an 
information system to support the above process; (c) the establishment and operation 
of a system for monitoring compliance with EAs; and (d) the acquisition and 
utilization of equipment and vehicles, training and other technical assistance related 
thereto.
7.
(a)
Implementation of an improved process, including acquisition and 
utilization of equipment and furniture, training and other technical assistance 
related thereto and public participation workshops, for updating the existing national 
and state land use plans to enable MARNR and CORDIPLAN to incorporate principles of 
sustainable development as the basis for the national development plans; (b) the 
design of the national environmental action plan including public participation 
workshops and technical support for the unit within MARNR in charge of preparing such 
plan; and (c) an environmental education and participation program including 
evaluation of existing curricula and necessary adjustments, inventory and evaluation 
of NGOs in the environmental sector, training of teachers and acquisition and 
utilization of office and informatic equipment.
8.
(a)
Design, renovation, remodeling and construction of MARNR’s central office 
building; (b) the design and implementation of a management information system to 
support the planning and budgeting functions within MARNR; (c) the consolidation of 
MARNR’s information systems including upgrading of hardware, software improvements and 
training; (d) administrative modernization in procurement, disbursements and human 
resources; (e) upgrading of the communications system between MARNR’s central office 
and regional offices; (f) the establishment and operation of SAGA including the 
acquisition and utilization of office and informatic equipment and data bases, 
training and other technical assistance related thereto; (g) a training program for 
MARNR personnel; and (h) studies and workshops to support MARNR’s efforts to 
reorganize its overall organizational structure and decentralize environmental 
responsibilities.
9.
Establishment and operation of the PCU.
Part B:
Institutional Development of Environmental Management at State and 
Municipal Levels
1.
A pilot program to improve environmental management in the Selected States and 
Selected Municipalities through: (a) the strengthening of the respective environmental 
agency including acquisition and utilization of equipment and training related 
Page  11
thereto; (b) preparation of environmental action plans and their integration into 
socio-economic planning; and (c) the implementation of a public awareness and 
community participation program.
2.
A technical assistance program to establish the necessary incentives and 
capacity at the regional and local level in connection with environmental management, 
such program to include promotional campaigns, preparation of cooperation agreements, 
state and local environmental action plans, participatory workshops, training of state 
and municipal staff on environmental management and enforcement, design of the legal 
framework to enable municipal environmental regulation and enforcement, and monitoring 
and evaluation of environmental investments.
Part C:
Cartography
A program to modernize capabilities of SAGECAN through the establishment and 
operation, including studies, training and acquisition of equipment and data related 
thereto, of a digital mapping base to provide reliable and timely information for 
governmental functions such as economic planning, regional development, environmental 
management and national security.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
     dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2003
through May 15, 2014
1,165,000
On November 15, 2014
1,205,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Satellite Imagery and Aerial Photography
Part A:
General
Satellite imagery and aerial photography and goods shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, aerial photography and 
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  12
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically-manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Satellite imagery, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited 
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,650,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Standard bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, shall be utilized in 
the procurement of goods in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 
of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and aerial photography 
procured under international competitive bidding procedures; (ii) each contract for 
satellite imagery procured under limited international competitive bidding procedures; 
and (iii) the first five contracts for goods procured under national competitive 
bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
Page  13
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for: (a) the establishment of the certification system under Part A. 1 
of the Project and the improvement of the environmental approval mechanisms under Part 
A.4 of the Project; (b) updating of legislation and regulations for surveillance and 
enforcement; (c) action plan and management information study and institutional study 
for MARNR’s planning and budgetary office; and (d) the design of a reorganization 
program for MARNR under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  14
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the information 
relating to the selection of the consultants, as referred to in paragraph 5.2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the description of  the assignments (terms of reference) and 
the corresponding terms of employment shall be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
Page  15
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  16
