RESTRICTED
RETURN     TO       YE COPY.                       Report No. TO-369d
RtPORTS DESK           L
WITHIN
ONE WEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF REVISIONS TO THE
CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
September 27, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00          =    PRs 4.762
PR8 1.00          =     US$0.21
PRs 1, 000, 000   =     US$ ZlO, 000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
gal = Imperial gallon = 1. 20 U. S. gallons = 4. 54 liters
lMg = million Imperial gallons
IMgd=million Imperial gallons per day
Igcd= Imperial gallons per capita per day



INTERNATIONAL DE VELOPIJENT ASSOCIATION
CONFIDENTIAL
FILE          PYIDA/R68-53
FROM:  The President                                  October 1, 1968
PAKISTAN:  REVISION OF PROJECTS AND EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATES
FOR CREDIT 41-PAK AND CREDIT 42-PAK
(Dacca and Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Projects)
1.        The Credits for the Dacca and Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage
Projects (Credits 41-PAK and 42-PAK) in the respective amounts of $26 million
and $24 million were signed on August 16, 1963 and became effective on March
6 and February 5, 1964, respectively.
2.        Both projects were from the start hampered by a wide range of
difficulties considerably greater than anticipated and which to a large ex-
tent were beyond the control of the authorities concerned. By the end of
1965, it became apparent that the original schemes were over-ambitious. As
a consequence, it wias then agreed to reduce them to a more realistic size.
In autumn 1966, preliminary results of studies undertaken to revise the pro-
jects showed that substantial reductions could be made and the Government of
Pakistan requested cancellation of $10 million from each Credit. In reporting
this cancellation to the Ececutive Directors on November 10, 1966, Mr. Woods
indicated that further reductions could be expected. Indeed, the Government
of Pakistan, when the examination of the revised projects was completed to
its satisfaction in April 1968, surrendered an additional $2.8 million from
Credit 41-PAK and $7.0 million from Credit 42-PAK, thus reducing the original
Credit for the Dacca project to $13.2 million and that for the Chittagong
project to $7.0 million.
3.        A great deal of time and effort has been spent in an attempt to
scale both projects down to a size which the authorities concerned, in the
light of experience gained and of new technical developments, would be
capable of financing and managing. The attached Technical Reports (Nos. TO-
363d and TO-369d) describe in detail the history of the difficulties en-
countered and the scope of the revised projects as now agreed with the
Governments of Pakistan and of East Pakistan, and in this respect attention
is drawn to the sections entitled "Reasons for Changes" and "The Project
Revisions" in these Reports. A comparison between the original and the
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
President's Council
Executive Vice President, IFC
Vice President, IFC
Department Heads, Bank and IFC



- 2 -
revised projects will be found in Annex 2 to these Reports. In brief, both
projects have been modified to follow a more gradual pace of development
during the first stage of the cities' long-range water supply and sewerage
development program and to use different sources of water. In addition,
most sewerage construction in Chittagong has been deleted in favor of addi-
tional planning and design of a future sewerage project.
4.        The revised construction schedules provide for substantial
completion in 1970. As a consequence, it is proposed to extend the original
Closing Date of both Credits by one year to June 30, 1971. Further exten-
sions may prove necessary to complete disbursements, particularly in the
case of Chittagong. However, at the present time there would be little evi-
dence for establishing firm Closing Dates later than June 30, 1971. It is
therefore proposed that consideration of any further extension should be
deferred until early 1971 and the decision should then take into account
actual performance.
5.        As a consequence of the proposed changes in the Description of
the Projects, some of the understandings reached at the time the Credits
were signed would be modified to reflect the new situation.  These changes
are summarized in paragraph 5.05 of the Technical Reports.
6.        Both in Dacca and Chittagong, new organizations were created in
1964 at municipal level to operate the services concerned. Because of the
lack of trained and experienced staff and of delays in establishing sound
management and operational procedures, performance to date has been poor.
Though operations are now beginning to improve, particularly in Dacca,
further efforts will be needed. The financial situation of these author-
ities is also a matter of concern. Cumulative receivables, owed mainly by
Government and its agencies, are excessive. This matter has been taken up
with the Government, together with the problem of payment for water provided
through street hydrants. Although certain steps have been taken, a critical
financial-situation may develop in Chittagong within the next two or three
years, which could eventually lead to-non-compliance with the Government's
undertakings in this respect. We have made it clear that the Association
may have to invoke remedies available to it unless corrective action is
taken.
7.        Despite these difficulties which will require continuous attention
on the part of the Association, I believe there would be no advantage in
delaying further finalization of the agreements reached on the revised pro-
jects which now correspond to the urgent needs of the cities.  If for any
reason construction -were to be stopped, much of the work accomplished to
date and the considerable effort made to organize and place into operation
the two municipal water and sewer authorities would be jeopardized. In
addition, the lack of practicable alternatives and the potential contribu-
tions of these projects to development in East Pakistan justify the effort
and resources required to complete them.



- 3 -
8.        Consequently, in the absence of objection (to be notified to the
Secretary or Deputy Secretary by the close of business on October 8, 1968),
I propose that the Association agrees to the changes in the Description of
the Projects as set forth in Annexes 1 and 2 hereto, respectively, and to
the extension of the Closing Dates for both Credits from June 30, 1970 to
June 30, 1971.
Robert S. McNamara
President



FILE COPY'
ANNEX 1
DACCA W4ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (CREDIT 41-PAK)
Revised Description of Project
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and
improvement of existing ones for the water supply and sewerage systems of
metropolitan Dacca and development of an adequate organization for their
efficient operation, as follows:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
New tubewells will be installed at various locations in Dacca,
and worthwhile existing ones will be improved, to meet average water prod-
uction requirements of about 30 IMgd (million imperial gallons per day) and
maximum requirements of about 40 IMgd. All water production will be metered.
New distribution mains and about four 1.0 million imperial gallon elevated
storage tanks will be constructed. Existing treatment, pumping, distribution
and storage facilities will be improved to provide more effective service.
The Project includes new water service connections and a program
of installing water meters on both new and existing connections. These
elements of the Project will be adequate to provide on-premises water service
for a total of about 300,000 people in the metropolitan area and at least
50% of the water connections will be metered by the end of the construction
period. Existing street hydrants will be reconstructed and metered and new
ones added for a total of about 1,500. There will be an experimental program
of constructing and operating public sanitary structures.
B. Sewerage System
New works for the sewerage system include major sewers, lateral
sewers, intermediate pumping stations, a main pumping station, sewage treat-
ment lagoons and an outfall to the Burhi Ganga River. Existing sewerage
facilities will be improved and modified to provide more effective service.
New sewer service connections will be added so that when the Project is
completed not less than 50% of the buildings with water service connections
will also have sewer service connections.
C. Organization
An efficient organization will be developed for the Authority
enabling it to operate efficiently in accordance with sound public utility
practices. The Project includes a training program and the retention of
management and engineering consultants. Repair and storage facilities and
ancillary buildings will be erected and equipment and tools purchased as
necessary for efficient operations.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1970.



FILE COPY                       ANEX 2
Page 1.
CHITTAGONG WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (CREDIT 42-PAK)
Revised Description of Project
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and improve-
ment of existing ones for the water supply system of metropolitan Chittagong
including facilities to protect the river water intake, the planning and
design of a sewerage system and development of an adequate organization for
their efficient operation, as follows:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
A new river water intake and treatment plant will be constructed, a
system of new tubewells will be installed and worthwhile existing tubewells
will be improved. Together these will be adequate to meet average water
production requirements of about 18 IMgd (million imperial gallons per day)
and maximum requirements of about 25 IMgd and all production will be metered.
Minimum waste diversion facilities necessary to protect the proposed river
water source from local pollution will be included in the construction and
effective pollution control regulations will be implemented to safeguard the
source against pollution increases. Pumping and transmission facilities wqill
be installed to deliver water from the new sources to metropolitan Chittagong.
New distribution mains and storage tanks will be added and existing ones will
be improved to provide more effective service. Repair and storage facilities
and ancillary buildings will be erected and equipment and tools purchased as
necessary for efficient operations.
The Project includes new water service connections and a program of
installing water meters on both new and existing connections. These elements
of the Project will be adequate to provide on-premises water service for a
total of about 50% of-the people in the Project area and at least 75% of the
water connections will be metered by the end of the construction period. In
addition, existing public street hydrants will be reconstructed and metered
and new ones added for a total of 800 to 1,000. There will be an experimental
program of constructing and operating public sanitary structures.
B. Sewerage System
The Project will include planning and design of a sewerage system
for Chittagong. Planning will comprise feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering for a new long-range sewerage program and will attempt to identify
a viable first stage sewer construction project. Design will consist of
detailed engineering for a suitable first stage project if one is identified.
The waste diversion facilities included under Part A will be designed and
built so they can be incorporated into the sewerage system.



ANNEX 2
Page 2.
C. Organization
An efficient organization will be developed for the Authority,
enabling it to operate in accordance with sound public utility practices.
The Project includes a training program and the retention of management
consultants.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1970.



CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF REVISIONS TO THE
CHITTAGONG WiATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMIMARY                                               i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION                                            1
2.   PROPOSED PROJECT REVISIONS
A. The Original Project                            2
B. Reasons for Changes                             2
C. The Project Revisions                           4
D. Estimated Cost                                  8
E. Procurement and Disbursement                    9
F. Engineering and Construction                    10
3.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS                 U
4.   FfINUICIAL ASPECTS
A.  Financial Objectives                           15
B. WIater Rates and Collections                    15
C.  Present Financial Position                     16
D.  Future Financial Position                      17
E.  Financing Plan                                 18
5.   CONCUiSIONS                                             20
ANNEXES
1    Description of Original Project
2    Comparison of Original and Revised Project
3    Estimated Cost of Revised Project
4    Summary of Water Rates and Charges
5    Summary of Revenues and Expenditures - 1966 through 1968
6    Summary of Billings, Collections and Accounts Receivable -
1966 through 1968
7    Highlights of Financial Projections by Authority
8    Income Statements Adjusted by Association
9    Cash FloW Statements, Ratios and Averages by Association
10    Assumptions for Financial Projections by Association
HP P
1    City of Chittagong Water Supply Project
This report is based on field investigations by IDA ris-ons in Frnry
and December 1967 by Messrs. P. Callejas and P.F. Lu and in MIy 19G8 by
Messrs. Lu and R.F. Robertson. The report was prepared by Messrs. Callejas
and Lu.



APPRAISAL OF THE REVISED CHITTAGONG WATER. SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUIARY
i.        Credit 42-PAK for US$240. million was 'made to the Government of
Pakistan on August 16, 1963 to help finance a water supply and sewerage
project for the City of Chittagong.IJIt became effective on February 5,
1964. The Central Government has made the proceeds of the Credit avail-
able to the Province of East Pakistan on IDA terms. The Province in turn
relends the funds to the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
(hereinafter referred to as the Chittagong Authority), a new agency
established as a condition of effectiveness under the Credit Agreement.
ii.       When the original project was beset by a series of difficulties
and proved to be too amnbitious, requiring too rapid expansion of Chittagongt.
water supply and sewerage systems, the government, the Chittagong Authority
and the Association agreed that it should be restudied in the light of
the past experience and new technical developments. Substantial revisions
now are proposed as a result of these studies, and the Government of
Pakistan has asked the Association to approve these revisions which would
require related changes to the existing credit documents.
iii.      By October 1966, feasibility studies of the project revisions
were sufficiently advanced to demonstrate that the Credit could be safely
reduced to US$14.0 million.  Accordingly, at the Government of Pakistan's
request, US$10.0 million from the Credit was cancelled on November 2, 1966.
When these project studies were completed to its satisfaction and indicated
further cost reductions, the government requested a further cancellation
of US$7.0 million. This became effective on April 1, 1968, leaving a
Credit of US$7.0 million. During the time required to revise the project,
work has continued on some original project elements which would defini-
tely remain a part of the revised project and disbursements from the Credit
totaled about US$1.6 million equivalent on August 31, 1968.
iv.       The revised project for Chittagong is defined broadly as all
capital investments by the Chittagong Authority through mid-1970 to
provide water supply facilities which should be adequate until about 1976,
to construct minimum waste diversion facilities necessary to protect the
river water source from local pollution and to plan and design a future
severage project. The principal changes proposed from the original
project are: utilization of newly discovered groundwater souroes; re-
location and reduction in size of the surface water treatment and pu.mping
facilities; omission of the sewerage construction except for the waste
diversion facilities; and extension of the completion and closing dates
by one year.
v.        The total cost of the rev-.eed project is estimated to be 7T3s 96.4
million (equivalent to US$20.24 million) including expe:n6t'tures already
made, consulting services, contingencies and interest during construction.
17 IDA Credit 41-PAK was made at the same time for a similar project for
Dacca, East Pakistan. Revisions proposed for that project are the
subject of a separate report.



-ii-
The estimated foreign exchange cost is US$7.0 million, 35% of the total.
The revisions would result in a total project cost reduction of about 58%
(PRs 117 million, equivalent to US$24.5 million); 70% of this estimated
saving is in foreign exchange.
vi.       The project revisions reflect the Authorityts experience over
the past four years. They are practical responses to the problems en-
countered and should result in a project more consistent with local
requirements and means. The revised project is technically sound, the
estimated costs are reasonable and arrangements for procurement and
construction are satisfactory. However, the Authority's time schedule
for completing construction appears to be very optimistic. The proposed
new closing date has been set at June 30, 1971, one year later than the
completion goal, (and the original closing date). This allows for some
slippage in the construction program and the Authority ought to be able
to complete withdrawals from the Credit by then. Further extension of
the closing date beyond June 30, 1971 is not recommended at this time; if
one is required to complete disbursements, the decision should depend
on satisfactory performance by the Authority up to early 1971 when a firm
date could be established.
vii.      Although the Chittagong Authority has made some progress since
it was established, its organization, management, operational-.efficiency
and finances are still very weak. Substantial improvements are required,
and are possible, during and after the construction period. The revised
project would include additional management advice and training programs
to help the Authority. However, even with this assistance, and that of
the Association, it is apparent from experience to date that it will take
several years of diligent effort by the Chittagong Authority and the
Government of East Pakistan before the Authority can be expected to attain
a creditable level of performance. The Authority and the government
appear to be committed to this effort, but this conmmittment must be
demonstrated largely by the way the responsible officials respond to
the necessity for a number of difficult actions with respect to payments
for street hydrant services, increasing rates, improving efficiency and
reducing operating costs to appropriate levels.
viii.     Even though the revised project can be expected to face conti-
nuing difficulties and to require very close supervision by the Association,
the lack of practicable alternatives and its potential contribution to
development in East Pakistan justify the effort and resources required
to complete the project.
ix.       Approval by the Association would require changes in the existing
credit documents (paragraph 5.05) including an extension of the closing
date to June 30, 1971. Additional changes have been agreed with Pakistan
to help assure that the Authority eventually attains an acceptable level
of performance. No change is contemplated in the terms and conditions
established under the Credit by which the Government of Pakistan relends
the proceeds of the Credit to the Chittagong Authority through the Govern-
ment of East Pakistan.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      IDA Credit 42-PAK, for US$24.o million, was made on August 16,
1963 to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of a water supply and
sewerage project for Chittagong, East Pakistan. I7 The original project
is described in report No. TO-369a dated June 18, 1963. Toward the end
of 1965, due to problems encountered on the original project and to new
technical developments, the government, the Chittagong Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority and the Association promptly agreed upon the necessity
for new feasibility studies to identify substantial project changes.
1.02      The studies of the project revisions were sufficiently advanced
by late 1966 to demonstrate that US$10.0 million of Credit 42-PAK could
be safely cancelled, leaving an adequate amount to cover the revised
estimate of foreign exchange costs. This cancellation was made on Novem-
ber 2, 1966 at the Government of Pakistan's request. 'When the studies
were completed to its satisfaction and further cost reductions were
indicated, the government requested a further US$7.0 million cancellation.
This became effective on April 1, 1968, leaving a Credit of US$7.0 million.
1.03      The project revisions require changes to the credit documents.
Suggested anmndments wero mailed to Pakistan in August 1967. Subsequent
dcvelopmonts, verified by a supervision mission in December 1967, required
some further changes, and the andments as now1 proposed were finally ap-
proved by the Government of Pakistan in IApril 1968.
I.04      During the time required to revise the project, work has continued
on some original project elements which would definitely remain a part of
the revised project. Disbursements from the Credit totaled US$1,601,991
equivalent on August 31, 1968, mostly for consulting services, equipment
and pipe. Local currency expenditures from govermnent funds through
December 31, 1967 totaled about PRs 18 million - PRs 16 million on the
project plus PRs 2 million on works not included in the original project.
1.05      This report covers the appraisal of proposed revisions to the
Chittagong W1ater Supply and Sewerage Project. It was prepared by Messrs.
P. Callejas and P.F. Lu based on field investigations by them in February
and December 1967, on another mission by Nessrs. Lu and R.F. Robertson in
May 1968 and on additional information submitted to the Association during
1967 and 1968 by the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
(hereinafter referred to as the Authority).
lJ IDA Credit 41-PAK was made at the same time for a similar project for
Dacca, East Pakistan. Revisions proposed for that project are the
subject of a separate report.



- 2 -
2. PROPOSED PROJECT REVISIONS
A. The Original Project
2.01      Credit 42-PAK was made originally for the water supply and
sewerage project described in Annex 1. This was to be the first stage
in a long-range program for improving and expanding Chittagong's water
supply facilities and for developing an entirely new sewerage system.
The project was scheduled for completion by June 30, 1969. It would have
provided water service at the dwellings of about 180,000 people (50%
of the predicted 1969 population) and sewer service for about 90,000 to
100,000 people. The major project elements were to have adequate capacity
for continued expansion of services until at least 1980.
2.02      Essential to the success of the project was a new agency, the
Chittagong Authority, to integrate and improve the effectiveness of
existing public water supply systems in Chittagong as well as to operate
the proposed sewerage system. The project included management consulting
services to aid the Authority in attaining reasonable levels of efficiency
in management and operations.
2.03      The original water supply and sewerage project was estimated to
cost about PRs 227.3 million (US$47.7 million equivalent) including con-
sulting services and interest during construction. The foreign exchange
costs were US$24.0 million, about 50% of the total.
2.04      The Chittagong project was first designed by the Parsons Corpo-
ration, consulting engineers from Los Angeles, California, under a grant
from the United States Agency for International Development. The consul-
tants scaled the project down considerably as the basis for the original
IDA Credit and later were retained by the Government of East Pakistan to
supervise construction and provide other engineering services under the
Credit. For management consulting services, the Chittagong Authority
retained EBS Management Consultants, New York, in a joint venture with
EWJP Associates, a Pakistan accounting firm.
B. Reasons for Changes
2.05      The history of the project is characterized by a series of
problems which have made it clear that the Association and the others
concerned with it had been overly optimistic in accepting a project that
was too ambitious. The main problems encountered were: (a) unsatisfac-
tory bidding results on the supply and construction contracts; (b) questions
about the sources of water; (c) sewerage construction difficulties and
costs; (d) changes in the city's planned road construction program; (e)
slow progress in organizing the Authority; (f) the Authorityts unsatisfac-
tory finances; and (g) disappointing work by the consultants.



2.06      The original projectts size and complexity required the use of
foreign contractors and suppliers for most of the work. However, inter-
national competitive bidding for the major construction and supply
contracts for both the Chittagong and Dacca projects (paragraph 1.01)
in November 1964 was unsatisfactory. More than 60 firms had obtained
the joint bidding documents, but few bid for the contracts and bid
prices were generally prohibitive. An extensive international canvass
of prospective bidders disclosed that basically, because there was no
experience on large projects of this type in East Pakistan, firms at
that time were reluctant to assume the risks of the comprehensive, large
scale contracts advertised. Although the documents were revised to make
the contracts less costly and more attractive to bidders, including many
design changes, escalating construction costs for other work in East
Pakistan and the experience with bidding on this project indicated that
costs still could be too high and the construction period too long in
terms of the project's feasibility. This prospect prompted the decision
to restudy the project, seeking a whole new approach. Changes in the
plans and schedules for new road construction in Chittagong, affecting
the installation of some of the larger pipelines, also made project
design changes necessary.
2.07      Serious questions arose about the optimum source of water.  The
minimum flows in the Halda River, which was to be Chittagongls water source
(Annex 1), appeared to be diminishing due in part to upstream withdrawals
for irrigation by a large number of individual farmers. Also, the flow
characteristics in the Karnaphuli Iliver, which sklrts Chittagong, had
changed since the Kaptai hydroelectric plant went into operation, reducing
salt water intrusion from the Bay of Bengal during low river flows and
opening the prospect that the Karnaphuli might be the city's best surface
water source. Finally, recent technical progress on the location and
utilization of ground water sources in the vicinity of Chittagong offered
promise that new tubewells could be the most economical means of satisfying
the city's most immediate water supply problems. These developments
required extensive field studies to detrmine whether fundamental project
changes could be made.
2.08      Cost increases foreseen for the difficult-to-construct Chittagong
sewerage project resulted in a decision to reorient and scale down the
initial construction program. However, the studies of the changes soon
disclosed that a lengthy period of preliminary work would be required to
resolve many uncertainties about the scope, design and estimated cost of
a revised first stage sewerage project; many of these questions could not
be answered reliably enough to assure economical design until at least
part of the water project is in operation (paragraph 2.16).  Construction
could not be expected to start before about 1971, which would put sewerage
completely out of phase with the water supply portion of the project.
2.09      A very slow start has been made on the difficult task of properly
organizing the Authority and establishing sound management and operations
(paragraph 3.04). Financial results have lagged about three years behind
the original expectations for the Authority (Section 4). There has been
some progress but it soon became apparent that the Authority would develop
much more slowly than was originally anticipated, and that its prospects
were not adequate to support the original expansion program. The principal



- 4 -
limitations to satisfactory progress have been lack of trained and
experienced staff to run a water supply and sewerage utility on a com-
mercial basis, inertia to changing entrenched practices and procedures
and the extremely small and poorly run water supply system on which
the Authority had to base its development.
2.10    Disappointing results from the work by the management and the
engineering consultants, and insufficient cooperation between them and
the Authority, contributed to the problems. Staff selection and home
office support by both consulting firms were poor. The management
consultants were never able to establish the necessary rapport with
the client and produced reports and recommendations with limited practical
application for the Authority at that stage of its development. The
management team and the Authority did not cooperate to evaluate and
benefit from the limited attempts made to follow the consultants' recom-
mendations. The engineering consultants lacked the capacity for iden-
tifying the need and possibilities for project improvements and were
slow to recognize local developments which would affect the project.
C. The Project Revisions
2.11    Annex 2 compares the revised project with the original.  Tle main
differences are the new sources of water, omission of sewerage construction
(except for the waste diversion facilities to protect the river water
source), additional planning and design of a future sewerage project and
extension of the completion and closing dates. There would be relatively
little change in the population to be served by water connections or by
public facilities. However, for public facilities, the emphasis would
be on street hydrants rather than on public sanitary structures which
require a longer period of trial before the Authority would be justified
in proceeding with full scale construction.
2.12    For water supply, the Authority would first develop a recently
discovered ground water source north of Chittagong, about half way to
the junction of the Halda and Karnaphuli Rivers. Explorations have shown
that this could be developed fairly quickly to produce water at an
average sustained rate of at least 6 IMgd. There is also a good prospect
for extending the well field to produce up to 11 ITgd but this will not
be assured until after the first few tubewells are in operation. If it
fulfills its potential, the wellfield could meet all of Chittagongts
expected water requirements until 1971 and more than half of the 1976
requirements. A surface water treatment plant, to be located at the
confluence of the Halda and Karnaphuli Rivers, would be constructed to
treat 5.0 to 7.5 f2Igd on the average, depending on the success of the
wellfield, with a peak production rate of about 10 IT4d. Together ifith
the few worthwhile existing wells, total productive capacity wiould
average about 18 IMgd and peak capacity would be about 25 IMgd.
2.13    The proposed new river water source is jeopardized by increasing
pollution from industrial developments in parts of Chittagong and upstream
along the Karnaphuli River. Therefore, the revised project would include



- 5 -
facilities to divert and dispose of wastes which now discharge into the
rivers in the vicinity of the proposed treatment pla-:it intalce. Also,
the Government of East Pakistan has agreed to implement regulations,
acceptable to the Association, to control the pollution of the Halda
and Karnaphuli Rivers and prevent further degradation of the water
source. To be most effective, however, these regulations require
legislative action by the Provincial Assembly which is impossible for
the government to guarantee. Ideally, passage of this legislation
would be a condition for starting the surface water system, but this
could further delay the project. Consequently, the Association has
agreed that the Provincial Government would demonstrate its commitment
to protect the wiater source by deferring procurement for and construc-
tion of the surface water intake, treatment plant and related works
until the legislative action has been initiated - that is, drawn up,
approved by the various Provincial Government departments and the
Cabinet and is ready for consideration by the Provincial Assembly. By
this time the design and financing plan for the waste diversion
facilities should be ready for approval by the Association.
2.14    The water distribution network in Chittagong would be strength-
ened and expanded but the original requirements for the larger sized
transmission and primary supply mains would be considerably reduced by
the change in water sources and other revisions. Ibre attention would
be given to rehabilitating existing mains and other facilities.
2.15    The proposed water supply facilities are based on more realistic
assumptions, developed during the last twro years, as to water use, waste
and leakage in the system. Per capita domestic use is expected to range
from 10 to 40 gallons per day (gpd) at domestic service connections
depending on the type of housing. There are reasonable allowances for
commercial, industrial and government use. Supplies are expected to be
sufficient to permit bulk sales of about 1.5 IIMgd to the Chittagong Port
Trust and the East Pakistan Railway starting about 1971. Additional
allowances have been made for wasteful or excessive water use and leak-
ages, which are high, but realistic, during the construction period with
a gradual improvement thereafter. A key project objective is to reduce
waste and losses and improve the utilization of available supplies;
metering and other project components would help to achieve this goal.
2.16    The sewerage part of the project,  except for construction
of the waste diversion facilities (paragraph 2.13), planning and
design, would be deferred and would not be included under this Credit.
Study has shown that although sewerage will be required within the
next decade, postponing construction for a fewr years would not be
critical due to available drainage. Therefore, a delayed construction-
start is feasible and desirable to permit adequate planning and design.
Planning would comprise feasibility studies and preliminary engineering
for a new long-range sewerage plan and would attempt to identify a viable
first stage construction project. The design would consist of detailed
engineering for a suitable first stage project. To avoid waste, detailed



-6-
engineering should not be started prematurely and should take proper
account of experience with the revised water supply project and the
experience in Dacca with sewerage. Thus, the revised credit documents
provide for staged engineering in consultation with the Association and
that, in particular, the start of detailed design should be subject to
approval by the Association. If the preliminary engineering does not
identify a viable sewerage construction project, the proceeds of the
Credit would not be used for detailed design.
2.17      The revised project also includes a number of general items
required for Chittagong Authority operations. These comprise storage
facilities, workshops, equipment and tools, management consulting services
and a training program. The latter would be coordinated with a US AID
training project for public health personnel, being carried out under the
Province's Directorate of Public Health Engineering, which already has
helped the Authority by accepting some of its staff for special training.
2.18      The major elements of the revised project, such as the tubewells,
the water treatment plant, pumping stations and large pipelines should be
adequate to meet Chittagong's requirements until about 1976 without signi-
ficant additions. Meters, service connections and the smaller size water
mains would continue to increase as normal yearly extensions after the
project is completed.
2.19      The proposed project revisions appear to respond satisfactorily
to the problems encountered with the original project. Most investment
in long-term capacity which would not be fully utilized within the next
few years would be postponed. There would be more rehabilitation of
existing facilities where this is economical. Thus, the project would be
smaller, less complicated and costly and would be phased over a longer
period. Equipment and supplies would be easier to obtain and install and
construction could be carried out mainly by local contractors. Smaller
pipeline sizes and revised layouts would permit much greater construction
flexibility, unlikely to be seriously affected by changes in the city's
road construction program. The contract documents would reflect the earlier
experience, settling much of the previous bidding uncertainty. Together,
these aspects of the revised project should resolve most of the earlier
procurement difficulties.
2.20      The project revisions would make it possible for the Chittagong
Authority to give first priority to improvements and extensions which would
lead quickly to better water services. Additional water would be avail -
ablemuch earlier than from the original water source. Operations would be
much simpler and the financial burden substantially less - both more
suitable in terms of the slow rate of improvement now expected of the
Authority's organization and finances. The sewerage postponement would
give the Authority more time to put its water supply in good order before
it assumes the added burden of sewerage operations.  At the same time, more
effective management assistance, working in a better atmosphere, together
with the training program, should help to strengthen the Authority.



- 7 -
2.21     As for consulting services, the Authority has come to realize
that it needs assistance and that its advisors should be used more
effectively rather than being resented or resisted, if it is to carry
out the project efficiently. This has already served to create a better
working environment for consultants. The Authority also has moved to
improve the quality of the advisory services it obtains.,  The first
management consulting contract was terminated early in 1967 (paragraphs
2.o4 and 2.10), although the local accounting firm in the joint venture
has been retained for additional assistance on financial management,
records and reports. As part of the revised project, the Authority
would obtain tho scrvices of an expctioncod public utilitics
manager for two or more years to serve as advisor to the Chairman on
all aspects of the Authcrityts activities, particularly commercial and
planning. In addition, short-term services of specialized advisors
would be obtained as they prove to be necessary. This should be satis-
factory, providing that the consultants supervise the implementation
of their recommendations and make periodic appraisals of the effectiveness
of all steps to improve management and operations.
2.22     The Authority decided to continue with the Parsons Corporation
as engineering consultants (paragraphs 2.o4 and 2.10) if their field
organization was revamped and their methods improved. These steps were
taken and are continuing. In addition, the Authority arranged for an
independent review of project engineering by Camp, Dresser & McKee of
Boston, Massachusetts, who are general consultants to the Government
of East Pakistan on its overall water supply and sewJerage programs.
These steps have been effective. The Parsons Corporation has cooperated
closely with Camp, Dresser & McKee and the Association, has worked to
develop a sound relationship with the Authority and has demonstrated
its ability to obtain acceptable construction work from local contractors.
Nevertheless, the Association is continuing to insist on further im-
provements to certain aspects of the consultant's work on planning and
the preparation of bidding documents.



D. Estimated Cost
2.23      The estimated total investment required for the revised Chittagong
project is PRs 96.40 million (equivalent to US$20.2 million) as summarized
below. Detailed construction cost estimates are given in Annex 3.
---Expres3ed in PRs---     --Expressed iil US$---
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Forei&n   Total
-mill___________-_----miions-------------------
Construction               41.65    24.71   66.36    8.73     5.20    13.93
Engineering and
Supervision            9.96     3.75   13.71    2.10     0.78     2.88
Management Consulting
and Training          0.82     1.05     1.87    0.18     0.22     0.40
Unallocated                 2.07     3.81    5.88    0.43     0o80     1.23
Sub-Total            54.50     33.32   87.82   11.44     7.00    18.44
Interest During
Construction          8.58         0    8.58    1.80        0     1.80
Total                63.08     33.32   96.40   13.24     7.00    20.24
% of Original Water
Project Cost          111%1/     56%     83%
% of Original Total
Project Cost           56%       29%     42%
2.24      The cost estimates include all prior expenditures on both the
original and revised projects. Estimated future costs are based on pre-
liminary or detailed designs and recent bidding experience and price
quotations for the types of material and equipment to be used. The cost
estimates include the local currency costs of present import duties, sales
and other taxes on all goods and services. The individual items ofall 2uture
expenditures include allowances for price escalation at 4% per year plus
contingencies of about 8%. The additional unallocated allowance is
equivalent to about 9% of all future construction costs (or about 7% of
total future expenditures before interest). Engineering and supervision
includes the cost or engineering for the future sewerage project and the
construction costs include some prior local currency expenditures on
reclamatior. of a site for a future sewage treatment plant which the
Authority will use temporarily as a storage area.
1/TConstruction work would be mostly by local rather than foreign
contractors (paragraph 2.19). Al.so, general local costs previously
distributed bettreen wrater and sew-erage would now be charged entirely
to water.



- 9 -
2.25      The foreign exchange costs of US$7.0 million equivalent (includ-
ing some local costs to the extent that local suppliers win contracts in
international competition - see paragraph 2.27) would be covered by the
IDA Credit and represent about 35% of the total investment as compared to
about 50% in the original project. The foreign exchange estimates in-
clude the C.I.F. cost of all materials and equipment which may be imported
based on the assumption that all supply contracts which might interest
foreign bidders are won by them.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
2 26      Procurement procedures would be in accordance with the normal
IDA requirements which have been followed for the original project. Supply
contracts for materials and equipment would continue to be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. On these, the government has
requested a margin of preference to domestic over foreign suppliers in
the comparison of bids and the Association is attempting to reach an
agreement with the government on an appropriate margin and the method of
its application. Most construction would be done by local contractors
(paragraph 2.19) under contracts which would not be of a size and nature
to attract international competitive interest.
2.27      Disbursements from the Credit would be for the foreign exchange
costs of goods and services, plus perhaps a limited amount of expenditures
on goo(ds produced in Pakistan under supply contracts awarded by the
Authority on the basis of international competition after January 1, 1967
and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. Such
disbursements would be primarily for pipe and fittings for which some
local manufacturing capacity has developed since this Credit was made;
the amounts are already included in the estimated foreign exchange costs
(parag':aph 2.25). To the present time, contracts for these supplies
amounting to about us$o.5 million equivalent have been awarded of which
less than 10% are for local products. Additional supply contracts for
pipe and fittings with a total value of about US$0o.5 million will be
bid in future.
2.28      If foreign exchange disbursements are less than the amount of
the reduced Credit, the undisbursed balance would be cancelled on the
closing date of the Credit unless, in the light of circumstances then
existing, the Borrower and the Association agree that withdrawals from
the balance would be made on account of additional local currency pro-
ject expenditures. This is in accordance with the present agreements.



- 10 -
F. Engineering and Construction
2.29       Project design is being done by the consulting engineers.  To
the limited extent that they are now qualified to do so, the Authority
engineers are participating in the design of rehabilitation works. The
fundamental design criteria upon which the project is based, including
selection of construction methods and materials suitable for local
conditions, were reviewed and approved by a separate engineering firm
(paragraph 2.22). The consultants are responsible for preparing bidding
documents, construction drawings and specifications, for evaluating bids
and for overall supervision of construction.  The Authority approves the
bid documents and bid evaluations and awards the contracts. i/The
Authorityls staff, under the direction of the consulting engineers, would
do some routine construction inspection as part of a training program.
All work on the project would be certified as satisfactory by the consulting
eigirneers as the basis for all payments by or on behalf of the Authority
be;ause it would take at least three years for the Authority's own staff
to become skilled in providing sound control over procurement and con-
struction, and because, in the past, divided control over the project
eleraents has proved unsatisfactory.
2.30       Construction has been scheduled for completion by June 30,
1970,YJ the date used in the proposed revision to the Description of
Project in the Credit Agreement. It now appears unlikely that this date
will be met because it is taking longer than expected to accelerate the
construction pace to the necessary level. The proposed new closing date
of June 30, 1971 allows for slippage in the construction program and the
Authority ought to complete its withdrawals from the Credit before that
time. In any event, there is little evidence at present for establishing
a firm closing date later than June 30, 1971, and since an attempt to
further alter the dates which have been agreed with the government would
cause more delays, no change is proposed at this time. If a future
extension of the closing date proves necessary to complete disbursements,
the decision should depend on satisfactory performance by the Authority
up to early 1971 when a firm date could be established. If performance
has not been satisfactory by then, the balance of the Credit should be
cancelled.
2.31       Land acquisition for the project should not be a serious
problem provided that the Authority and the government continue their
concerted efforts to resolve the outstanding problems.  Much of the land
already has been acquired and the revised project eliminates some of the
more difficult land problema which gives the Authority additional time
to resolve those still outstanding before critical construction delays
would occur.
1 Awards of major contracts to foreign bidders are also subject
to government approval.
J The original project was scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1969.



-11-
3.  ORGAiNlIZATION, MW_N1AG1E-KT A11D OPERATIONS
3.01      The Chittagong Authority was established under the East Pakistan
Water Supply and Sewerage Authority Ordinance of 1963' as a condition of
effectiveness under the Credit Agreement. It took over water supply
facilities in the city which had been under the Chittagong Municipal
Committee or the Government of East Pakistan's Directorate of Public Health
Engineering. The Authority has its own administration and independent
accounts and is solely responsible for the management and operation of
public water supply and sewerage facilities (although there are no sewers
at present) within its jurisdictional area which includes Chittagong and
its suburbs. The Authority's accounts are audited annually by ayprivate
firm appointed by the Authority and approved by the Association.    he
Authority is not responsible for facilities operated by the East Pakistan
Railway or the Chittagong Port Trust (which supply their own sizeable
residential colonies) but these are expected to become bulk customers when
the Authority can provide adequate service (paragraph 2.15).
3.02      Control of the Authority is by the Authority Board which consists
of a chairman and 13 members. The Chairman is the Authority' s chief
executive officer and is appointed by the Provincial Government after prior
consultation with the Association. The other members are appointed or
elected and represent the local government, local private interests and
the Provincial Government. However, the membership of the Authority Board
was not filled until July 1967 because of legal proceedings affecting the
elected representatives to the local government units represented on the
3oard. Until then, according to the Ordinance, the Chairman exercised
the powers, functions and duties of the Authority.
3.03      The Authority is not truly autonomous since its budget, proposed
capital investment programs, and any changes in water or sewer rates or
in its scale of salaries require approval by the Provincial Government's
Department of Basic Democracies and Local Government (BD&LG). This depart-
ment also is responsible for the Municipal Committees (such as the
Chittagong Municipal Committee) and the Directorate of Public Health
Engineering, an arrangement which is convenient in coordinating activities
and settling disputes on matters which concern the Authority. During most
of the past 2-1/2 years BD&G has satisfactorily administered its res-
ronsibilities with respect to the Chittagong Authority, playing a useful role
by occasionallyr prodding the iuthority into necessary action and supporting
the Authority in its dealings with other government departments and
agencies. The only limitation on the Chittagong Authority's autonomy
wit'hl an adverse effect on operations may be the control of salary
levels which are tied to civil service scales and hanper the Authority's
recruiting for the rmost responsible posts.
1/ Amended in 1966.
2/ New auditors, Chowdhury & Co., Chittagong, were appointed on
February 7, 1968.



- 12 -
3.04       The Chittagong Authority has barely started the process of im-
provement required for it to become a reasonably competent public utility
organization. Progress has been painfully slow and halting and almost
every aspect of the Authority's organization, management, operations and
finances remain very weak. This is not surprising, considering the dif-
ficulties involved (paragraph 2.09), when immediately upon its establish-
ment, the Authority assumed the responsibility for combining and operating
on commercial lines the very poor water supply systems that existed in
Chittagong and, at the same time, attempted to carry out a large project.
There was no staff background or capacity for properly contending with
these new responsibilities. This led to uncertainty, confusion and
general disorganization throughout the Authority, much of which could
have been avoided if, from the beginning, the Authority's leadership had
been stronger. At first there was little alternative to continuing the
existing operating procedures until appropriate improvements could be
made and, unfortunately, the original management consultants were not
effective enough on this work (paragraph 2.10); in the meantime the old
ways tended to become more entrenched and difficult to correct.
3.05       In retrospect, there was little that could have been done
diiferently when establishing the Authority, to assure a better start.
:iowever, the magnitude of the starting problems probably should have
been anticipated by the government and the Association and appropriate
allowances made for them, particularly in the financial projections and
the timing and size of the project.
3.06       There now are encouraging signs of a desire to improve and
recognition that the established practices and procedures do not bring
the necessary results. The changing attitude toward consultants (para-
graph 2.20) is an example; therefore, the additional support and
assistance provided in the revised project should produce much better
results than in the past. The reduced size of the project and the
more gradual expansion of its operations should also help the Authority.
However, it is apparent from the experience to date that it will require
several more years of diligent effort by the Authority and the Government
of East Pakistan before the Authority can be expected to attain a credit-
able level of performance. The Authority and the Government, in working
out and deciding to proceed with the revised project, appear to be com-
mitted to this effort.
3.07       The Chairman is the Icey man in the organization, but at first
the Authority was hampered by short-term, part-time appointees and the
lack of a Board which could have helped to give him community support
(paragraph 3.02). This situation has been improved with the appointment
of a Chairman, who appears more able than his predecessors, and the
establishment of the Board.  However, the Chairman still is part-time;
he also heads the Chittagong Development Authority. This arrangement may
have some advantages at this stage, particularly on land acquisition
p-obLeras, but the Association has asked the government to end the dual
role as soon as possible.



- 13 -
3.o8       The Authority has maintained an over-sized staff composed
mainly of personnel transferred or deputed from the Directorate of
Public Health Engineering and the Chittagong Municipality but including
a few recruited by the Authority. The Authority has acted to reduce
expenses by discharging or transferring some excessive staff or those
without promise, but much more positive action is required. Further steps
are complicated by the problem of suitable recruitments from local sources.
i.c :cEver, the most critical achievement will be to develop discipline and
arouse a sense of loyalty, responsibility, and dedication to the Authority's
program. This will be one of the most important objectives of the mana-
gement guidance and training programs included in the revised project.
3.09       The Authority's Commercial Department is completing an account-
ing system reform recommended by and implemented with the assistance of
the local consulting accountants, and the Authority's accounting system
should be satisfactory for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1968. The
1966 and 1967 accounts were certified by the external auditor. The
assessment section, which has the important responsibility for revenue
accounting, requires much improvement; its records and procedures are
inadequate and future management service should concentrate on this
deficiency. The Commercial Mlanager has fairly good potential and has
taken a water utility management course in the United States under an
AID program and also participated in the Management Seminar sponsored by
the IBXD and the Inter-American Development Bank in 1967. However, he
may leave the Authority in the near future.
3.10       The Engineering Department has not made notable advancement
since the establishment of the Authority. Most of the problem can be
traced to the shortage of competent people. This department in particular
requires the Authority's continuing attention. Within the last year it
has been helped by closer cooperation with the consulting engineers who
have been attempting to advise and assist the Authority in improving its
poor operation and maintenance procedures. A new project director's post
was established recently and filled by a promising new engineer who will
be responsible directly to the Chairman on all matters relating to the
project.
3.11       The Authority operates 27 tubewells which are now producing
about 3.2 I]igd. This exceeds the estimated reliable sustained capacity
of the existing groundwater sources (about 2 IMld), but unless there is
a severe dry period or too many equipment breakdowns the Authority may
be able to continue this production rate for another year or 18 months
when it should be able to supply water from the new well field. Meters
have been installed at all the tubewells within the last few months and
the supply will be chlorinated when recently installed equipment is put
in service. Otherwise, the tubewell and pumping installations are in
very poor conditions and the Association is insisting that a suitable
repair and maintenance program be started immediately.



3.12       From one-third to one-half of the water supply goes to almost
800 public street hydrants (standposts) scattered throughout the city and
is largely wasted because these are allowed to flow whenever the system
is under pressure. Installation of new metered street hydrants equipped
with flow control devices is just beginning. In addition, all water
service connections are being metered (there now are only about 2,000
connections, most serving several dwelling units). The Authority intends
to complete these programs in about one year. In addition to providing
the Authority's management with vital data on water use, these works,
after a period of adjustment and public education, should lead to signi-
ficant reductions in water waste, improved service to existing connections
(perhaps even 24 hour service in some areas) and an increase in capacity
to selrve some new revenue producing connections with the existing supply
sources. Although these possible results from a comparatively modest
effort would bring notable improvements to the Authorityts performance and
finances, the Authority has been very slow in acting until recently.
The decision to proceed is indicative of the Authority's improving attitude
(paragraph 3.06), but constant urging by the Association will be required
to make su-2e the Authority keeps to its time schedule.



- 15 -
4. FINAMCIL ASPECTS
A. Financial Objectives
4.01      Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement requires that "the Province
shall cause the Authority to set and maintain rates for water supply and se-
werage services which will provide sufficient revenues: (i) to cover oper-
ating expenses, including taxes, if any, and interest and to provide adequate
maintenance and depreciation; (ii) to meet repayments on long-term indebtedness
to the extent that such repayments exceed the provisions for depreciation; and
(iii) to finance the normal year to year extension of the water supply and
severage systems and to provide a reasonable portion of the cost of future
major expansion of such systems." These financial objectives, particularly
(iii), were expected to be attained over a period of years, during which the
project would be completed and the Authority's management and operations
improved.
4.02      To permit the measurement of progress toward these objectives, East
Pakistan has agreed to certain specific financial tests. These require the
Authority to set and maintain rates to yield net revenues for each fiscal year,
starting with the current year, not less than 1.25 times the Authority's total
debt service requirements. The Authority is also required to maintain an
operating ratio (before depreciation) not exceeding 35% for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1970 and not exceeding 25% thereafter. These tests are to be
reviewed from time to time and may be modified by mutual agreement between
East Pakistan and the Association.
B. Water Rates and Collections
4.03      The present water rate schedule is suiinarized in Annex 4; it was put
into effect in November 1966. Service charges are based upon the property tax
for unmetered connections or upon metered water consumption. The charges for
metered use range from PRs 2.0 (domestic) to PRs 4.0 (government) per 1,000
gallons. The Authority's Ordinance requires the rates to be reviewed annually.
Rate increases probably will be necessary in about 1971 and 1974.
4.04      Connection fees are about triple the actual average cost to the
Authority for making the connections and are high in terms of per capita income.
When more water is available, the Authority may find it necessary to reduce
the connection fees or permit installment payments to encourage new connections.
14.o5     For over two years there has been a dispute between the Authority
and the municipality and disagreement within the Provincial Government as to
how the Authroity can obtain appropriate revenues from the public street
hydrant service which uses a large part of the available water (paragraph 3.12).
In 1966, the Provincial Government directed the Chittagong Municipality to pay
street hydrant charges to the Authority from general property tax revenues and
authorized the municipality to increase the property tax by an equivalent
amount if necessary. The mnmicipality fought this successfully. In May 1968,
the Provincial Government told an IDA supervision mission that the municipality
would pay the Authority PRs 500,000 per year for the street hydrants and that
the government would reimburse the municipality for up to 50% of the amount.
This appeared satisfactory for the time being. Instead, in July 1968, the
government advised the Association of a substantially different axTangement



- 16 -
which proved to be unacceptable. In fiscal 1969 and 1970 the Authority's
income for this service would amount to only PRs 335,000, about 75% of the
estimated cost of the service including depreciation, and in fiscal 1971 and
thereafter, to only PRs 100,000 or less than 25% of the cost.
4.o6      In view of the importance of the street hydrant service to Chittagong
and of this source of income to the Authority's finances - it should provide
at least 25% of the total income in 1969 - the Association has again insisted
that the government should promptly arrange for adequate payment. The Asso-
ciation advised both the Government of East Pakistan and the Central Govern-
ment that the alternatives to this appeared to be much higher water rates than
would be required otherwise to comply with the rate covenant in the Project
Agreement. To cover the estimated cost oftthe service, payments to the Autho-
rity should be at least equivalent to PRs 1.5 per 1,000 gallons of metered
water use at the hydrants or a minimum total payment of about PRs 500,000 per
year based on the number of hydrants now in service.
4.07      Refugee housing colonies in Chittagong have separate water systems
operated by the Authority. By law, the charge for water service at such
colonies is PRs 1.0 per month per dwelling unit which is inadequate to pay for
the cost of the service. East Pakistan has agreed to reimburse the Authority
for the cost of operating and maintaining these systems. This cost would be
detedrrined from the Authority's accounts but should not be less than about
Pits 1.5 per 1,000 gallons of water produced for the colonies.
4.o8      The Government of East Pakistan has agreed that the Authority is
to employ effective billing and collection procedures including the exercise
of its right to disconnect water service promptly upon a customerts failure
to pay the water (or sewer) service charges. The Authority is making good
progress in improving its collections, particularly from private customers.
Total collections, including income from arrears, averaged about 85% of billings
for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1966 and 1967, and the pro-forma accounts
indicate about 94% for 1968. Accumulated receivables total about 4-1/2
months billings in 1968, but this is after writing off an almost equal amount
as bad debts over the 1966-68 period. While this may be realistic, the
procedure should be examined during the external audit of the 1968 accounts.
4.09      Government and municipal departments and agencies are very slow to
pay and are responsible for twe-thirds of the accumulated accounts receivable.
The Association is urging the government to make firm commitments for prompt
aettlemnent of all arrears and future charges for water services to the
govermnent and rmnicipal departments and agencies.
C Present Financial Position
4.10      Annex 5 summarizes the finances of the Chittagong Authority for the
fiscal years ending June 30, 1966, 1967 and 1968. Annex 6 shows the billings,
collections and accounts receivable for those years. Data for fiscal 1964
and 1965 are not showvn because the records were not compatible with the new
accounting system and comparative analysis of the data has little meaning.
As shown in the Annexes, the 1966 and 1967 figures taken from the annual reports
also do not fully reflect the actual situation because some accounts were
improperly treated during the accounting transition period. These have been



- 17 -
adjusted by the Association to remove the most significant distortions. The
1968 figures are pro-forma, based on the three quarterly reports received to
date, but should be representative.
4.11      The Chittagong Authority's financial position has improved somewhat
but is still unsatisfactory. Revenues have increased annually - 23% from
1966 to 1967 and 7% from 1967 to 1968 - but operating costs have also increased,
absorbing most of the gain, and revenue has never covered cash operating ex-
penditures (before depreciation). The operating ratio before depreciation
for 1968 will be about 113% unless appropriate payment for street hydrant
services (paragraph 4.06) is retroactive in which case the ratio would be about
72%; even then, revenues would not quite cover operating costs including de-
preciation. The principal problems have been: (i) the lack of additional
water to permit serving new customers; (ii) slow progress in making more
effective use of available water supplies; (iii) the street hydrant issue
(paragraph 4.05); and (iv) the Authority's failure, particularly in the first
two years, to keep its staff and labor force at appropriate levels and the
difficulty now of trinming and making better use of the personnel (paragraph
3.08).
D. iFuture Financial Position
4.12      The Chittagong situation is such that financial forecasting is
subject to large margins of error and widely divergent results, largely
because the Authority has not developed enough to establish trends on which
reliable assumptions for the future can be based. The range of results is
illustrated by the two sets of projections annexed to this report.
4.13      Annex 7 summarizes the financial projections prepared by the Autho-
rity, with its consultants, for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1969 through
June 30, 1976, based on the existing rate schedule and the Authority's proposed
program for carrying out the revised project. With respect torevenues it
appears to be too optimistic, concealing the importance of steps which should
be taken to improve the Authority's performance.
4.14      Annexes 8 and 9 summarize a more cautious projection prepared by
the Association for the same period. This also uses the existing rate sche-
dule but most other assumptions (detailed in Annex 10) are substantially
different from the Authority's, particularly the operating costs and a more
gradual increase in the pace of making new connections. This projection may
be too pessimistic but it does illustrate the probable necessity for specific
meatures in the near future if the Authority is to attain an acceptable
finarcial position within the projection period (1969-1976).
4.15      Based on the Authorityts projections, a general water rate increase
of 40% to 455% would be required by July 1, 1971 in order to meet the agreed
intermediate financial goals (paragraph 4.02). Another small increase would
be required by July 1, 1975 bringing rates to a level about 50% to 55% higher
than they are at present.  In this case, domestic water rates might be PRs 3.00
to PRs 3.10 per 1,000 gallons, approximately the level predicted for fiscal
1970 in the original appraisal of the larger project.



- 18 -
4.16      According to the Association's projections, a general water rate
increase in the order of 100% might be necessary by July 1, 1970 unless the
Authority and the government act quickly to improve the Authority's finances.
This could bring domestic water rates to PRs 4.0 or higher per 1,000 gallons
(equivalent to US$0.84 per 1,000 gallons), a level which the Association
believes would be too high for Chittagong at that time. vlith the various
measures Listed below, all of which appear to be well within the power of the
Authority and the government to take, the general rate increase required for
acceptable financial performance could be made in two stages; the first, a
10% to 20% increase by July 1,-1970 and the second by July 1, 1973 to give an
overall increase of 50% to 70%.  The measures which should permit the less
severe rate increases include: adequate street hydrant payments; further
reduction in bad debts by improved billing and collection procedures; reduction
of Administrative and overhead costs by 1972, at least to the levels achieved
at Dacca, East Pakistan, per connection or per St4g of water produced; payment
for service to the refugee colonies equivalent at least to PRs 1.5 per 1,000
gallons of water produced for the colonies.
4.17      These analyses demonstrate that even under the most fortunate cir-
cumstances for Chittagong, the Authority's finances will be a problem for a
number of years, requiring some very difficult decisions and diligent effort
by the Authority and the Government of East Pakistan,-both as to rate increases
and to solution of the problems listed in paragraph 4.UL. The revised project
will help to solve these problems but the ultimate success will depend on the
ability of the Authority to adhere to its street hydrant, metering and con-
nection programs and to make the best possible use of the consulting advice
and traini'ng programs in improving operating efficiency and reducing unit
costs to acceptable levels. The government will have to be more effective in
supporting the Authority on rate questions, especially the charges for street
hydrant service. The Association will review performance regularly. to deter-
mine whether the government and the Authority are taking all possible action,
and the performance criteria will be reviewed periodically to be sure they are
reasonable.
E. Financing Plan
4.18     -  The total investment required for the revised project would be
PRs 96.40 million (equivalent to US$20.24 million) including expenditures
already made and interest during construction (compared to a PRs 227.32
million total cost,-equivalent to US$47.74 million, for the original project,
including sewerage).
4.19      The expected sources of financing are as follows:
In M1llions    In Millions
of Rupees      of US$        Percent
IDA Credit                   33.32          7.00           35
Government Loans             60.58         12.72           62
Funds from Operations         2.50          o.52            3
96.hO         20.24          100



- 19 -
4.20      The required government funds have been reduced substantially from
PRs 96.4 million for the original project to PRs 60.58 million for the revised
project, mainly due to the postponement of the sewerage project. The funds
from operations which the Authority proposes to apply to the project are low,
covering only part of the interest during construction (the rest would be
capitalized and financed by the government loan). It is possible, however,
that toward the end of the construction period the Authority would be able
to contribute up to PRs 7.5 million from reserves.
4.21      The Central Government transfers the Credit amount to East Palistan
on IDA terms. East Pakistan relends the funds to the Authority at a 3-1/2%
interest rate; the total amount relent in each fiscal year is to be repaid
in 50 semi-annual equal installments of principal and interest, the first
installment being payable in the sixth fiscal year after the year the amount
was relent. Government lends its own funds to the Authority on the same terms
and condi-tions.



- 20 -
5. CONCLUSIONS
5.01       The Government of East Pakistan is committed to undertaking a
project for improvement and expansion of Chittagong's water supply and
sewierage facilities in order to overcome a severe shortage of these
facilities and to prevent this limitation from hampering the city's future
development. Such a project has high priority as a direct means of
improving the population's living standards and productivity.
5.o2       The Chittagong W4ater Supply and Sewerage Project, which was
approved by the Association in 1963 as the basis for Credit 42-PAK, has
proved to be over-ambitious and has also been hindered by a series of
problems. New feasibility studies have identified changes to the project,
based on experience to date, which are distinct improvements. The revised
project would represent a more gradual start on solving the city's water
and sewerage problems and it would be less costly and more suitable for
the city's requirements,capabilities and means during the next several
years. The principal physical changes would be new sources of water and
deferment of sewerage except for engineering and for the construction of
a small waste disposal segment to protect the water supply.  There would
be sizeable reductions in the requirements for both foreign exchange and
local currency.
5.03       The project revisions are technically sound and suitably
fle:-ible to reflect experience and changing circumstances as the project
goes along. The cost estimates are reasonable. The Authorityts proposed
time schedule for completing the project may be overly optimistic, but
the proposed new June 30, 1971 closing date has been set to allow for
slippage in the construction program and the Authority ought to be able
to complete withdrawals from the Credit by that time. In any event, there
is insufficient basis at present for a further postponement of the closing
date; any decision  to postpone should be talen on the basis   of the
A'uthorityts performance by early 1971, when a firm date could be established.
5.04       The Chittagong Authority's m:anagement, operations and financial
position are weak and require substantial improvements over the project
construction period. The difficulty of accomplishing this progress should
not be underestimated, but with diligent effort, the Authority could reach
acceptable performance levels in several more years. The revised project
is intended to assist the Authority in these respects through training
programs and consulting advice based on the Authority's previous experience.
In addition, the Authority's success depends on receiving more support from
the government than it has in the past to resolve the critical question of
adequate income for street hydrant services and to assure prompt payments
for the Authority's services to government and municipal departments and
agencies.



- 21 -
5.05      Agreement has been reached with the Governments of Pakistan and
East Pakistan and with.the Authority on the following proposed changes as
required to proceed with the revised project:
(a) The amount of the Credit already has been reduced to US$7.0
million (paragraphs 1.02 and 2.23). The closing date would
be extended to June 30, 1971 (paragraph 2.30).
(b)  The Schedule to the Credit Agreement, "Description of Project"
(Annex 1), and the "List of Goods", would be changed to
describe the revised project.
(c) The engineering consultants would be required to do additional
planning and design of a sewerage program (paragraph 2.16).
(d) The Government of East Pakistan would take steps to protect
the proposed surface water source from pollution (paragraph 2.13).
(e) Expenditures for goods produced in Pakistan under supply contracts
awarded on the basis of broad international competition after
January 1, 1967 would be eligible for disbursements from the
.Credit (paragraph 2.27).
(f) Rates for water and sewer services would be set to yield net
revenues for each year of not less than 1.25 times the Autho-
rityts total debt service requirements (paragraph 4.02).
(g)  The Authority would maintain an operating ratio for its overall
operations, before depreciation, not exceeding 35% for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1970 and not exceeding 25% there-
after (paragraph 4.02).
(h) The Authority would employ effective billing and collection
procedures, in accordance with sound public utility practices,
including the exercise of its right to disconnect water ser-
vice promptly upon the customerst failure to pay water or
sewer service charges (paragraph 4.o8).
(i) The Government of East Pakistan would reimburse the Authority
for the cost of operating the refugee colony water systems
(paragraph 4.07).
5.o6      The proposed revisions to the Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, as described in this report, provide an appropriate basis for
Credit 42-PAK, reduced in amount to US$7.0 million.
September 27 , 1968



ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO W4ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF ORIGINAL PROJECT!/
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and
improvement of existing ones for the water supply and sewerage systems
of metropolitan Chittagong and the establishment of an adequate organi-
zation for their efficient operation.
The Project includes the following:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
The Halda River will be developed as the new water source for
metropolitan Chittagong with the construction of intake works, a raw
water canal and a water treatment plant adequat, for average flows of
about 20 million imperial gallons per day (M3DD'and maximum flows of about
30 i1D. A pumping station will deliver water from the treatment plant to
metropolitan Chittagong through a transmission main about five miles long
at rates up to about 40 MGD. A system of primary supply mains will
distribute the water to the various distribution networks in the city. A
new storage tank of about five million imperial gallons capacity, to be
constructed on a hilltop in the city, will be connected to the system of
primary supply mains and a number of existing storage tanks will be modified
to provide more effective service.
The Project also includes construction of secondary water dis-
tribution mains, the replacement of inadequate existing mains, the
installation of new water service connections, and a program of installing
water meters on both existing and new meter service connections. These
elements of the Project will be adequate to provide on-premises water
service for a total of about 180,000 people and about 87% of the water
connections will be metered by the end of the construction period. In
addition, new public sanitary structures will be constructed to provide
adequate service for about 70,000 to 100,000 people.
B. Sewerage System
New works for the sewerage system include major sewers, inter-
mediate pumping stations, a main pumping station and an ocean outfall
sewer, about 11,000 feet long, into the Bay of Bengal. These works will
be adequate for the anticipated requirements of about 250,000 people
served by sewer connections and about 70,000 to 100,000 people using
public sanitary structures.
1/ Copy of Schedule, Description of Project, page 13 through 15,
Developmenit Credit Agreement, Credit lqumber 42-PAK.
2/ I4gd in new standard abbreviations.



Annex 1
Page 2
The Project also includes the construction of lateral sewers
as required to provide adequate on-premises sewer service for 80,000 to
100,000 people.
C. Organization
The establishment of an efficient organization for the Authority
operating in accordance with sound administrative practices.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by July 1969 and the
works included therein will be the first stage of a comprehensive long-
range project to satisfy the water supply and sewerage requirements for
Chittagong and will be designed and constructed to permit economical
future expansions of the facilities.



CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPARISON OF ORIGINAL AND REVISED PROJECT
Project Element                    Original Project                            Revised Project
Water Project
1. Surface Water Treatment Plant    Located 7.5 miles north of Chittagong,   Located at the confluence of the Halda
on Halda River                  a 20 IKgd rapid sand filtration plant,   and Karnaphuli Rivers, closer to
with peak capacity of 30 IMgd including  Chittagong, a slow sand filtration
river intake, raw water canal, a barge   plant for average flows up to about
canal to permit chemical and supply      7.5 IMgd and peak flows up to 10 IMgd,
shipment by inland water transport, raw  (depending on productivity of the
water and high lift pumping stations     new tubewells - item 3) including
and the Authority headquarters.          river intake, raw water and high
lift pumping stations, sedimentation
basins, filter beds and chlorination
facilities.
2. River Intake Protection          Not included.                            Minimlum facilities to divert local
wastes which pollute the river water
at the treatment plant intake. These
include some pipe lines, small booster
pumping stations, course screening
and an outfall.
3. Tubewells                        Not included.                            8 to J14 new tubewells, booster pumping
stations and iron removal facilities
in a well field north of Chittagong
near the surface water treatment
plant, and replacement or improvement
of several tubewells in the city.
Groundwater production expected to
average 7 to 11 IMgd with peak output
10 to 15 IMgd.
CDpuj



Project Element                     Original Project                        Revised Project
4.  Transmission and Primary        About 23 miles of pipeline, 18 inch     About 10 miles of pipeline, 18 inch
Supply Mains                    through 48 inch diameter, including      and 24 inch diameter.
a transmission main about 5 miles
long to the edge of the city.
5.  Secondary Distribution Mains    About 94 miles of new and replace-      About 62 miles of new and replacement
ment mains 4 inch through 12 inch       mains 4 inch through 12 inch diameter.
diameter.
6. Water Storage Tanks              A 5 lMg hill-top tank plus modifi-      A ground level tank of about 5 IMg
cation of some existing tanks.          near the new water sources.
7.  Public Facilities               About 400 public sanitary structures.   Reconstruction of public street
hydrants and the installation of new
ones for a total of 800 to 1,000;
also construct experimental sanitary
structures.
8. Water Service Connections        New service connections for about       About 10,000 to 12,000 new service
and Meters                      9,200 dwelling units so that by         connections and meters so that by
June 30, 1969 about 50% of the          1971 about 50% of the population
population in the project area          in the project area would be served
would be served by connections.         by connections and about 75% of
Also about 23,000 meters to be          the connections would be metered.
installed (equivalent to 87% of         Project includes materials plus
total connections).  The project        installation by contract and force
included materials only.  Instal-       account.
lations were to be made by the Autho-
rity.



Project Element                      Original Project                         Revised Project
Sewer Project
9.  Main Pumping Station, Treat-     Pumping facilities with course           Purchase and reclamation of land only
ment Works and Outfall           screens and grit channels and an         to be used as storage area until a
11,000 foot outfall sewer into the       major sewerage project is carried
Bay of Bengal.  The location, about      out.
3.8 miles from the city center,
would be the site of a future
treatment plant.
10. Intermediate Pumping Stations    Three intermediate pumping stations      Deferred except as required for
on the sewerage system.                  River Intake Protection (item 2
above).
11. Main Sewers                      A system of major sewers 2 feet to       Deferred.
8 feet in diameter.
12. Lateral Sewers                   About 120 miles of 8 inch through        Deferred except as required for
18 inch diameter sewers to which         River Intake Protection (item
service connections would be made.       2 above).
13. Sewer Service Connections        About 4,400 connections to serve         Deferred except as required for
about 13,300 dwelling units so that      River Intake Protection (item 2
by June 30, 1969 about 50% of the        above).
dwelling units served by water
connections would also be served
by sewers.
I:D



Project Element                  Original Project                          Revised Project
C-enera3
14.  Equipment and Tools             Primarily service equipment,             Service equipment, maintenance tools,
maintenance tools and vehicles           vehicles and office equipment
for water supply and sewerage            required for operation of the water
operations.                              supply system and the facilities to
protect the river intake.
15.  Engineering and Supervision     Consulting engineering services          Consulting engineering services plus
only for water supply and                the Authority's administration
sewerage projects.                       relating to design and construction
of the water supply project. Also
consulting engineering services for
new feasibility studies of a long
range sewerage program and detailed
engineering design of a suitable
first stage sewerage project if one
is identified.
16.  Management Consultants          Services by consulting firm for          The consulting services included
about two years.                         in the original project plus
additional services and special
advisors for about two additional
years.
17. Training Program                 Not included.                            Instructors, materials and facilities
for on-the-job training.
18.  Ancillary Buildings             Some workshops and garage facilities     Workshops and storage facilities
included at surface water treatment      at various points.
plant
May a2. 1968 



ANNEX 3
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEfERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS - JAN. 1968
Item                                                      Local     Foreign             Local    Foreign
No.         Principal Elements                          Currene    Exchange  Total    Currency  Exchange   Total
----mlllions of Rupees -----  -------millions of US$-----
1    Land                                               3.52          0      3.52      o.74       0        o.74
2    Surface Water Treatment Plant & Pumping Station    i.04        2.46     3.50      0.22      0.52      0.7L
3    Tubewells and Chlorination                         0.98        1.27     2.25      0.20      0.27      0.47
4    Distribution                                      13.50       10.42    23.92      2.83      2.19      5.02
5    Storage Tanks                                      2.33        1.55     3.88      o.48      0.33      0.81
6    Connections, Meters and Public Facilities          2.97        1.60     4.57      0.62      0.3h      0.96
7    Ancillary Buildings                                0.83        0.11     0.94      0.18      0.02      0.20
8    Ecouipment and Tools                               o.65        1.08     1.73      0.14      0.23      0.37
9    River Intake Protection                            4.20        4.20     8.40      0.88      0.88      1.76
10    Prior Expenditures (to July 1, 1966)              11.63        2.02    13.65      2.44      0.42      2.86
11    Unallocated Contingencies                          2.07        3.81     5.88      0.43      0.80      1.23
Total Construction Costs                      43.72      28.52     72.24     9.16       6.oo     15.16
12    Engineering and Supervision                        9.96        3.75    13.71      2.10      0.78      2.88
13    Management Consulting                              o.60        0.86     1.46      0.13      0.18      0.31
14    Training                                           0.22        0.19     0.41      0.05      0.04      0.09
Totals                                        54.50      33.32     87.82    11.44       7.00     18.44
NOTE: Items "Prior Expenditures" and "Engineering and Supervision" include costs of preliminary work
on sewerage program.



ANR1EX 4
Page 1
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT.
SUMMARY OF WATER RATES AND CHARGES
CONNECTION FEES
C h a r g e s
ithout Meter           With Meter
PRs.                   PRs.
Size of Connection
1/2"                                   300                    425
3/4"                                   500                   625
1"                                   1,000                  1,200
1-1/2 to 2"                          3,500                  L,000
3" to 4"                               *                   6,300
6"                                     *                    7,500
Fees for Conversion from Non-Metered to Metered Connection
1/2" and 3/h"                                 125 PRs.
1"                                             200 PRs.
1-1/2 to 2"                                   500 PRs.
IIATER RATES
Unmetered Connection
Residential                      5 percent on annual valuation (a)
of property.
for properties without service
connection, 2 percent on annual
valuation of property within 300
feet range from street hydrants.
Metered Connection
Domestic                         PRs. 2.00 per 1000 gallons
Commercial & Government          PRs. 4.00 per 1000 gallons
* Not allowed
(a) Annual valuation equals actual annual rental (or computed as 7%
of construction cost of buildings plus annual rental of land)
minus 2/12 thereof.



A1UUEX 4
Page 2.
Industrial:
First 10,000 gallons per month     PRs. 3.00 per 1000 gallons
Second 150,000 gallons per month    PRs. 2.50 per 1000 gallons
All above 300,000 gallons           PRs. 2.00 per 1000 gallons
Bulk Sale                             PRs. 1.50 per 1000 gallons
Minimum Charge                        PRs. 3.00 per month



ANNEX 5
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISICKS TO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
(In thousands of PRO)
Year ending June 30                                                                               1968
Annual              Adjusted by       9                  Year Pro forma
Reports 1966- 1967    IDA Mission     Months      Year      w/ Revenue from
1966          1967   1966     19b7    ActualO    Pro formial Street Hydrants
REVENUES
Revenue from Billings                     469          576     469       576       465       607         1,107
Connection Fees                           116          105     116      105       123        130           130
Other Revenue                              73          127       73     127         70       125           125
Total                               658          808     658      808       658        862         1,362
COSTS
Operating Coats                           858          875     858      875        756       977           977
Other Costs                               685           -       - i                -          -             _
Depreciation                              636           760    2L481/      i      312        416           416
Total                             2,179        1,635   1,106    1,175     1,068      1,393         1,393
PROFIT(LOSS)                           (1,521)        (827)    (448)    (367)     (410)     (531)          (31)
Operating Ratios:
Before Depreciation                 234%         108%    130%     108%      115%       113%           72%
After Depreciation                  331%         202%    168%      145%      162%      162%          102%
1/ Before audit.
/ Based on information from quarterly reports.
3/ Projected on the basis of average of the 3 previous quarters.
li Repayment of Loans and Interest during construction has been excluded.
D/ epreciation on fixed assets in service for 1966 (averaging 7.7%) and 1967 (7.6%) were too high,
they have been adjusted to an average rate of 3%. Projections for future are based on 2.5%
because of new pipes entering into service.
Notes: (1) The Authority introduced its new Chart of Accounts on July 1, 1966. Records before
then were incomplete and inconsistent and of little use for comparison.
(2) Figures do nbt include revenue from street hydrants unless otherwise indicated.
July 1968



AI\NEX 6
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIOINS TO WATER SUPPLY AND S9EERAGE PROJECT
SUMIARY OF BILLINGS, CONNECTIONS
AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
(In Thousands of Rupees)
Year ending June 30
1968
Annual Reports           9 mth.          Year
1966   77iI967-           Actu;l2/ %     Pro forma3/ %
4/
Total Billing"'           585   100    681   100     588    100     737     100
51
Collected-               514     88    560    82     552     94     693       94
Accounts Receivable        71    12    121    18      36      6      44        6
Accumulated Accounts
Receivable              397    68    488    72     404     69     41.2      56
Less: Provision for
Bad Debts          30      5    120    18      90     15     120      16
Balance: Accumulated
Accounts Receivable      367    63    368    54     314     53     292       40
1/ Before audit.
2/ Based on quarterly reports.
3/ Projected according to average of 3 previous quarters.
4/ Including connection fees.
5/ Including collection from old accounts receivable.
July 1968



ANNEX 7
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISIONS TO WATER SUFFLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
HIGH-LIGHTS OF FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
WATER PROJECT
(In thousands of FERs except as noti otherwise)
Year ending June 30                                 1967     1968     1969      1970     1971      1972     1973      1974     1975      1976
Total Water Produced (MGD)                                   3.21      4.40     8,94      O,k'2    11.11    13.44    14.05     14.13     14.36
Total Water Produced (MG/yr.)                                1,171    1,606     3,263    3,986     4,o55    4,906     5,128    5,157     5,2141
INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
Revenue from Billings 1/                                  607    1,298     2,802    4,377     5,222    5,626     6,215    6,789     7,462
Connection Fees                                           130    1,550     1,825    1,825       258      258       233      127       102
Misc. Income                                              125      120       130      110       100       90        80       70        60
Total Revenue                                          862    2,968     4,757    6,312     5,580    5,97h     6,528    6,986     7,624
Operating Costs
Power                                                     190      260       529      646       657      795       831      836       849
Chemicals                                                  12       19        24       50        61       73        76       77        78
Maintenance                                               100      150       200      210       155      145       140      130       120
Salaries & Administration                                 635      652       679      694     1,009    1,037     1,089    1,159     1,213
Others                                                     40       42        15       50       52        55       59        63        67
Total Operating Cost                                   977    1,123     1,477    1,650     1,930    2,105     2,195    2,265     2,327
Operating Income, before Depreciation
(Cash Generated)                                         (115)     1,845     3,280    4,662     3,650    3,869     4,333    4,721     5,297
bepreciation                                                 416      670     1,410    2,388     2,686    2,758     2,824    2,880     2,912
Operating Inc me, after depreciation                         (531)    1,175     1,870    2,274       964    1,111     1,509    1,841     2,385
Interest                                                     -        -         346      669       891    1,123     1,513    2,740     3,929
Net Income                                                   (531)    1,175     1,524    1,605        73      (12)       (4)    (899)   (1,544)
CASH FLOW
Sources of Funds
Cash Generated                                           (115)    1,845     3,280     4,662    3,650    3,869     4,333    8,721     5,297
DA Credit & Goverrament Loans                           10,368   31,113    31,069    2,o68      -        -         -        -         -
Total Source                                        10,253   32,958    34,349    6,730     3,690    3,869     4,333    4,721      5,297
Application of Funds
Project Irvestinents and/or Replacement                10,368   31,113    31,069    2,o68        10       25        Lo       50       100
Debt Service                                             -        -          601    1,177     1,634    2,047     2,882    5,058     7,291
Increase (Decrease) Working Capital                       195      367       840    1,050       670      190       830      140     (328)
Total Application                                  10,563    31,480   32,510     4,295    2,314     2,262    3,752     9,.78    7,063
Balance of Funds                                        (310)    1,478     1,839    2,435     1,336    1,607       581     (557)   (1,766)
Funds (Cash & Credits) Accunulated               4,036     3,726    5,204     7,043    9,478    10,814   12,421    13,002   12,445    10,679
RATIS:
Operating Ratio Before Depreciation                        113%       38%       31%      26%       35%      35%       34%      32%       31%
Return on Net Fixed Assets in Operation                              5.9%      4.6%     3.1%      1.0%     1.1%      1.4%     1.8%      2.4 
Debt Service Coverage                                        -        -        5.5      4.0       2.2      1.9       1.5      0.9       0.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                                           94/6     95/5      95/5     94/6      94/6     94/6      94/6     95/5      96/l:
Operating Ratio After Depreciation                          162%      60%       61%      64%       83%      81%       77%      74%       69%
1] Including nothing for street hydrant services in fiscal l968 and 1969,
PRs 100,000 in. fiscal 1970 and FRs 200,000 per year for fiscal 1971 through 1976.



ANNEX 8
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENTS
ADCUSTSD BY ASSOGIATION
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                      1968     1969     1970      1971     1972     1973     1974    1975     1976
---- (Thowusands of FRs except as noted)----------------------
Productive Capacity IMgd                         3.8      3.8      8.0      13.0     18.0     18.0     18.0    18.0     18.0
Water Production, Average Daily, IMgd            3.2      3.5      4.7       7.2      9.0     11.0     12.4    13.5     14.6
Water Production, Total Annual, IMg            1,170    1,280    1,720     2,600    3,290    4,000    4,530   4,930    5,340
Reasonable Water Use (Revenue Water) IMgd       1.60     1.76     2.45      4.o8     5.38     6.68     7.65    8.45     9.25
IHg       585       640      890    1,490    1,970     2,440   2,790   3,080     3,390
Waste and Losses, % of Production                 50%      50%      48%       43%      40%      39%      38%     37%      37%
Income
Revenue from Billings                          607      790    1,170    1,860     2,690    3,540   4,270    4,830    5,390
Bulk Sales to Port Trust, Railway, etc.          0        0        0       270      410      540     600      660      710
Connection and Reconnecjson Fees               130      495    1,155    1,650     1,650    1,650   1,100    1,100    1,100
Street Hydrant Service                         1 414    335      335       100      100      100      100     100      100
Service to Refugee Colonies                      0       50      100       100      100      100      100     100      100
Miscellaneous Income                           125      130      140       140      150      160      170     170      180
Subtotal                               1,276     1,800    2,900     4,120    5,100    6,090   6,30     6,960    7,580
Less Allowance for Bad Debts                  120        80      120      190       270      350     430      480      540
Total Income                                 1,156    1,720    2,780    3,930     4,830    5,740   5,910    6,48o    l,040
OperatingCosta
Power and Chemicals                            202      220      310      470       610      760     870      970    1,070
Maintenance                                    100      140      300       490      550      570     580      590      600
Salaries and Administrdtion                    635      650      680      690     1,010    1,040   1,090    1,160    1,210
Other                                          40        40       50       50        50       60      60       60       70
Total Operating Cost Before
Depreciation                          977     1,050    1,340    1,700    2,220     2,430   2,600   2,780     2,950
Operating Income Before Depreciation
(Cash Generated)                         179      670     1,440    2,230    2,610     j,310   3,310   3,700     4,090
Depreciation                                  416       670    1,410    2,390     2,690    2,760   2,820    2,880    2,910
Operating Income After Depreciation             (237)       0       30      (160)     (80)     550     490      820    1,180
Interest                                        0         0      350      670       890    lj-20   1,510    2,740    3,930
Net Income (After Depreciation and Interest)    (237)       0     (320)     (830)    (970)    (570) (1,020) (1,920)   (2,750)
/ Based on Government of East Pakistans decision (letter July 13, 1968). Retroactive for 1967 and 1968.



ANNEX 9
CHITTAOONO, EAST PAKISTAN
REVISED WATER SUPPLY AND SSEWR0E PROJECT
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS - RATIOS AND AVERAGES
ADJUSTED'BY ASSOCIATION
Fiscal Year Ending June 30                    1968      1969      1970      1971       1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
--------------------(Thousands of PRs Except as N         o    te      d)-------------------------
Cash Flow
Sources of Funds
Cash Oenerated                            179      670     1,440     2,230     2,610     3,310      3,310     3,700     4,090
IDA Credit and Government Loane"       10371    31,110    31 070     2 070         0         0          0         0         0
Total Sources                      10,550   317M                 t ~       2,51      3,310      3,310  377     0      0TO
Applicstion of Funds
jrote Investments                      10,371   31,110    31,070     2,070         0         0          0         0         0
Normal Extensions and Replacements          0        0         0         0     2,000      2,000     2,000     2,000     2,000
Debt Service                                0        0       600     1,180     1,630      2,050     2,880     5,090     7,290
Increase (Decrease) Worklng Capital       18       370       840     1 0 0       670       190        830       140      (330)
Total Application                  T,6OO    31,14W0   3          43         4,300     4,240     5,710     7,230     e 10
Balance of Funds (Deficit)      /             (10)    300         0         0     (1,690)     (930)   (2,400)   (3,530)   (4,870)
Accumulated Cash (end of year)-            4,440    4,740     4,740     4,740     3,050      2,120      (280)   (3,810)   (8,680)
Ratios and Averages
Operating Ratio Before Depreciation          84%      61%       48%       43%       46%        42%       44%       43%       42%
Operating Ratio After Depreciation          120%     100%       99%      104%      102%        90%       92%       87%       83%
Debt Service Coverage                        -        -         2.4      1.89      1.60      1.61       1.15      0.73      0.56
Return on Net Fixed Aseets in Operation        0        0         0         0         0      0.5%       0.5%      0.8%      1.2%
Average Cost of Water (including depre-
ciation) PRs per 1000 gallons produced    1.19     1.34      1.60      1.57      1.49      1.30       1.20      1.15      1.10
PR8 per 1000 gallons revenue
water                        2.38     2.69      3.08      2.75       2.49      2.13      1.94      1.84      1.73
Average Income (excluding connection fees)
PRs per 1000 gallons-produced    o.88     0.96      0.94      0.88      0.97      1.02      1.06       1.09      1.11
PRs per 1000 gallons revenue
water                        1.75     1.91      1.83      1.53      1.61       1.68      1.72      1.75      1.75
1/ At least PRs 2.0 million of accumulated cash on hand at beginning 1968 plus net cash generated 1968 through
1971 should be applied to project, reducing government loans. This adjustment, involving changes to
Miscellaneous Income, Debt Service & Working Capital, has not been made.
/ Includes addition of PRa 4114,000 for street hydrants payments for each year 1967 and 1968
as proposed by GOEP.



ANNEX 10
CHITTAGONG, EAST PAKISTkiN
REVISED WATER SUPPLY ANID SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
as adjusted by Association
1. New Service Connections:
New Connections-
Fiscal Year       Added                    Total New and
ending June 30   During Year  Total Added   Old at Year End
1968            231-'            O2/         2,000
1969            900            900           2,900
1970          2,100          3,000           5,000
1971          3,000          6,000           8,000
1972          3,000          9,000          11,000
1973          3,000         12,000          14,000
1974          2,000         14,000          16,000
1975          2,000         16,000          18,000
1976          2,000         18,000          20,000
1/ Additions assumed to be less than Authorityts goals through
1971 because of slow start in 1968.
2/ Added in 1968 considered old connections for revenue purposes.
2. Revenue frcm Connection Fees:
As estimated by the Authority assuming all new connections metered
as follows:
60% are 1/2-inch at PRs 425      2% are 1-inch at PRs 1,200
37% are 3/4-inch at PRs 525      1% are 1-1/2 to 2-inch at PRs 4,000
Average = PRs 550 per connection
Note: (a) Average income from connection and reconnection fees for first
three quarters of fiscal 1967/68 was PRs 743 per new connection.
Expected average for full year = PRs 562.
(b) There is potential revenue, not used in projection, totaling at
least PRs 175,000 for metering existing non-metered connections
at PRs 125 each.
(c) All connection fees assumed as income in the year the connection
is made. Cost to the Authority of making connections included
under project expenditures and normal extensions.
3. Revenue from Billings for Connections existing June 30, 1968
(a) 1968 revenue from pro forma 1968 accounts is PRs 607,000
(b) For annual revenue from these connections in 1969 and thereafter
use PRs 700,000 because new 1968 connections are not billed
for full year.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4. Revenue from Billings for New Connections added after 1968
(a) Average revenue per new connection assumed at PRs 280 per year,
based on average revenue of PRs 2.2 per 1,000 gallons for metered
connections and average use of 350 gallons per day per connection.
(The actual average for 9 months in fiscal 1968 was 362 gallons
per day and revenue was equivalent to PRs 310 per year per metered
connection.)
(b) Assume three eights (0.375) of potential annual revenue is realized
in year the connection is made, based on equal additions each
month in the year.
5. Payments to Authority for Street Hydrant Service
Assume Government of East Pakistan's proposal of July 13, 1968,
namely:
fiscal 1968 = PRs 414,000/year
1969 =     335,000
1970 =     335,000
1971-1976= 100,000
6. Bulk Sales to Port Trust, Railway, Cantonment, etc.
(a) Bulk sales price of PRs 1.50 per 1,000 gals.
(b) Sales in fiscal 1971 of 0.5 IMgd, in 1972 of 0.75 IMgd, in
1973 of 1.0 IMgd and then increasing 0.1 IMgd per year thereafter.
7. Income for Service to Refugee Colonies
There is no data on the cost of this service for which the govern-
ment has agreed to pay the Authority. Based on water production at wells
which serve these colonies, prorated operating cost before depreciation
appears to be about PRs 180,000 per year but this may include water to
other customers.
For projections use PRs 100,000 per year. Half this amount is
assumed for fiscal 1969.
8. Miscellaneous Income
This income is from interest on deposits, rent from employees
for Authority owned quarters, etc. Use the pro forma figure of
PRs 125,000 for fiscal 1968 and increase 5% annually compounded.
9. Write-off Bad Debts
(a) For fiscal 1969 assume 50% write-off of accounts receivable at
end of 1968. This does not appear in income estimates.
(b) Write-off 10% of current revenue from billings each year
1969-1976 and deduct from income.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
10. Water Production Capacity
(a) Existing sources: Metered production has ranged up to 3.8 IMgd
in 1968. Adopt 3.8 IMgd as productive capacity for 1968 and
1969 assuming no drought or serious breakdowns. This capacity
is assumed to be reduced to the estimated reliable safe yield
from existing wells of about 2.0 IMgd in fiscal 1970 when new
wells are in production.
(b) New Sources: In 1970 assume 6 IMgd from first half of new well-
field plus 2.0 IMgd from existing wells for total of 8.0 IMgd.
Assume additional 5.0 IMgd from balance of new wellfield in 1971
for total of 13.0 IMgd. Assume 5.0 IMgd average capacity from
new river water source for total of 18.0 IMgd 1972 through 1976.
11. Reasonable Water Use (revenue water) with existing and projected types
and number of connections.
(a) For 1968 use 1.6 IMgd as estimated by Authority, including about
50% through street hydrants (778 hydrants at 1,000 gpd).
(b) For 1969 and thereafter: Assume additional average use of 350
gpd per connection added (only one half used in year added).
For street hydrants use 1,000 gpd for 800 hydrants in 1969,
1,200 gpd each in 1970 and 1,500 gpd each in 1971 through 1976.
(c) Assume bulk sales to Port Trust, etc., as given in item 6 above.
12. Waste and Losses (Non-revenue water)
Assume 50% of production for 1968 and 1969. Assume this goes
down gradually to 40% in 1972 and 37% of total production in 1976.
13. Water Produced
Add reasonable use at connections and street hydrants, bulk
sales and waste and losses.
14.  Cost of Power and Chemicals
(a) 1968: Pro forma data for 1968 indicates PRs 172.2 IMg.
(PRs 132 per Ilg in Dacca)
(b) 1969: use PRs 175 per IMgb
(c) 1970-1976: Increase unit cost 2% per year compounded.
(d) Apply to Water Produced (item 13).
15. Maintenance Costs
(a) Use PRs 100,000 total for fiscal 1968 based on pro forma data.
(b) Use PRs 140,000 for 1969
(c) Use 0.5% of total first cost of all fixed assets 1970-1976.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
16. Salaries and Administration
(a) This includes pay and allowances, customer accounts, adminis-
tration and general, and contingencies.
(b) Use Authority's estimates which are high and should be reduced.
There is a large increase in administration and general (115%)
in 1972 when it is assumed staff on project construction and
administration will be brought into operations.
17. Depreciation
Assume 2.5% per year straight line depreciation on original cost
of assets in service at beginning of year.
18. Interest
Interest on general loans and project funds from government
(including IDA Credit) at 3.5% per year. According to lending arrange-
ment, the amount withdrawn each year is treated as a separate loan to
be repaid in 50 semiannual installments of principal and interest starting
in December of the 6th year following the withdrawal. Also included is
interest on loans inherited from the municipality and government for which
a period of grace on interest and principal was given through 1971.
Interest accrued during the respective grace periods for project
funds is capitalized.
19. Accumulated Cash
Cash and bank balances at the end of 1968 originated largely from
government loans in previous years, primarily for use on the project. The
Authority's projections hold these funds in reserve. The IDA projections
do the same although it is expected that at least PRs 2.0 million plus
increases over the construction period will be applied to the project,
reducing the amount of the government loans in 1969, 1970 and 1971. This
would affect miscellaneous revenue, working capital adjustments and future
debt service.
20. Normal Extensions and Improvements
Assume PRs 2.0 million per year which is equivalent to about
2% of net fixed assets in operation.



MAP 1
L  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADTETMN L ,~'
17gi' - ..  ONynqr
.~ ~  K~n  o  o 
I>~~ 
Locotion Mop                                     MAIN
PROPOSED UFC  AFRITK
FEAND TREATMENT PLA  SITJ
i'~~~~~~~~~IYO CHITTGON
F AU U\AC D AWR H A T              93                            Y
<  \   }  \   t., >  , t  9 X                    E~~~~~ H  AKSTA EAKSTER   AILAN AE   OE
m 8 >t,,' ~~~~~CITY OF CHITTAGONG
2\ 1 ss ' ' > i gz WATER SUPPlY PROJECT
>  9\   K   l+/| /   tt             ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANAL AND WAITRWAY
\   \   t                       1    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPPLY AND 'SEWERAGE AUTMORIS WT ER
t   )                \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~WITH WATER  t  = 2 PAKISTAN EASTERN RAILWAY WATER ZONES
PORT TRUST WATER ZONES
A TPROPOSED PRIMARY SUPPLY MAINS
AU5UST  196R                                                                   IBOR - 2352



