0
CREDIT NUMBER 42 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 16, 1963


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 42 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 16, 1963


﻿Dimloipmut Tub~it Agrument
AGREEMENT, dated August 16, 1963, between REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIA-
TION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Province of East Pak-
istan have requested the Association to assist in the financ-
ing of a project in the Province of East Pakistan for water
supply and sewerage works for the Chittagong metro-
politan area;
WHEREAS the Province of East Pakistan will, with the
Borrower's assistance, cause the said project to be carried
out and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Province of East Pakistan the proceeds of
the development credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Province of East Pakistan and the Association;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (sai De-
velopment Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being
hereinafter called the Regulations)


﻿(a) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is
to be Paid and Proceeds of the Credit
are to be Withdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in
the respective currencies of the countries from
which such goods are acquired.
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in (in-
cluding services supplied from) the terri-
tories of the Borrower, in such currency or
currencies as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which
the cost of the goods financed out of such
proceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from
time to time agree on any other currency in
which withdrawals shall be made."
(b) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03 as
follows:
''Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal with
Other Cutrren)cy.
If withdrawal shall be made in any currency which
the Association shall have purchased with another
currency for the purpose of such withdrawal, the
portion of the Credit so withdrawn shall be deemed
to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account
in such other currency for the purposes of Section
3.03."


﻿95
(c) Section 3.04 is renumbered as Section 3.05.
(d) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
the Project Agreement" after the words "the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement."
(e) Paragraph 5 of Section 9.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means Republic of Pak-
istan, acting by its President."
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement or in
the Schedule thereto, unless the context shall otherwise
require, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
(a) The term "Province" means the Province of East
Pakistan, a political subdivision of the Borrower.
(b) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment between the Province and the Association of even
date herewith, providing for the carrying out of the Proj-
ect, and shall include any amendments thereof made by
agreement between the Province and the Association.
(c) The term "Authority" means the authority to be
established by law in accordance with the provisions of
Section 6.01 (b) and shall include any successor to such
authority.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this
Agreement set forth or referred to, a development credit
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
four million dollars ($24,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such
Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount of the
0o


﻿6
Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as pro-
vided in, and subject to the rights of canellation and sus-
pension set forth in, the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
vision of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account (i) such amounts as shall have
been expended for the reasonable cost of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the C,edit, and (ii) if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be re-
quired to meet payments to be made for the reasonable
cost of such goods;
(b) no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) ex-
penditures incurred prior to the Effective Date or (ii)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
produced in (including services supplied from) the terri-
tories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 17) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. The
Borrower shall also pay to the Association a service charge
at the same rate on the principal amount outstanding of
any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual instalments payable on each April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 1973 and ending April 1, 2013, each
instalment to and including the instalment payable on April
1, 1983 to be one-half of one per cent (/ of 17o) of such


﻿0
7
principal amount, and each instalment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (11 fo) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds
of the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be de-
termined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out, operated and maintained with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with sound, engi-
neering, financial and public utilities standards and
practices.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable the Province to perform all
its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not
take any action that would interfere with the performance
of such obligations by the Province.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof to the Province
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be
made available to the Province, promptly as needed, all
sums and other resources which shall be required for the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿8
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from   all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall


﻿99
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii)
if any event specified in paragraph (1) of Section 5.02 of
the Regulations or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower, then at any subsequent time the Association,
at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and upon
any such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything in this Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 of the
Regulations, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Province shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant or agreement of the Province under the Project
Agreement.
(b) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower or the Province
or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Authority or for the suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b) of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Province have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(1)) the authority shall have been established with such
powers, functions, duties and responsibilities and such
assets, financial resources and organization as, in the
opinion of the Province and the Association, shall be re-
quired to enable the Authority to carry out the Project, con-
duct its operations and perform its functions in accordance
with sound public utilities principles and standards;


﻿10
(c) arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall
have been made for the transfer of all existing water supply
and sewerage facilities for the Chittagong metropolitan
area, now owned or operated by the Municipality of Chitta-
gong or the Directorate of Public Health Engineering of
the Province, to the Authority;
(d) the terms and conditions for the relending of the
proceeds of the Credit, or the equivalent thereof, in accord-
ance with Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement shall have
been accepted and agreed upon by the Province and the
Authority;
(e) the Authority shall have accepted and agreed to all
the provisions of the Project Agreement relating to the
Authority.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Province and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
the Province in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Authority has full power and authority to
construct and operate the Project and has all necessary
rights and powers in connection therewith and that all acts,
consents and approvals necessary therefor have been duly
and validly performed or given.
SECTION 6.03. A date ninety days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1970 or
such other date as may from time to time be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Rawalpindi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Economic
Rawalpindi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.WT.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 7.03. The Secretary to the Government of Pak-
istan, Economic Affairs Division, is designated for the pur-
poses of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. G. N. KAZI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿0
13
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and
improvement of existing ones for the water supply and
sewerage systems of metropolitan Chittagong and the estab-
lishment of an adequate organization for their efficient
operation.
The Project includes the following:
A. Water Supply and Distribution System
The Halda River will be developed as the new water
source for metropolitan Chittagong with the construction
of intake works, a raw water canal and a water treatment
plant adequate for average flows of about 20 million im-
perial gallons per day (MGD) and maximum flows of about
30 AIGD. A pumping station will deliver water from the
treatment plant to metropolitan Chittagong through a
transmission main about five miles long at rates up to
about 40 MGD. A system of primary supply mains will
distribute the water to the various distribution networks
in the city. A new storage tank of about five million im-
perial gallons capacity, to be constructed on a hilltop in the
city, will be connected to the system of primary supply
mains and a number of existing storage tanks will be
modified to provide more effective service.
The Project also includes construction of secondary
water distribution mains, the replacement of inadequate
existing mains, the installation of new water service con-
nections, and a program of installing water meters
on both existing and new meter service connections.
These elements of the Project will be adequate to
provide on-premises water service for a total of about
180,000 people and about 87/o of the water connections
will be metered by the end of the construction period. In
addition, new public sanitary structures will be constructed
to provide adequate service for about 70,000 to 100,000
people.
0


﻿14
B. Sewerage System
New works for the sewerage system include major sewers,
intermediate pumping stations, a main pumping station and
an ocean outfall sewer, about 11,000 feet long, into the Bay
of Bengal. These works will be adequate for the anticipated
requirements of about 250,000 people served by sewer con-
nections and about 70,000 to 100,000 people using public
sanitary structures.
The Project also includes the construction of lateral
sewers as required to preovide adequate on-premises sewer
service for 80,000 to 100,000 people.
C. Organization
The establishment of an efficient organization for the Au-
thority operating in accordance with sound administrative
practices.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by July, 1969
and the works included therein will be the first stage of a
comprehensive long-range project to satisfy the water sup-
ply and sewerage requirements for Chittagong and will be
designed and constructed to permit economical future ex-
pansions of the facilities.


