CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 368 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 368 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) On August 16, 1963 the Association agreed to make available
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 41) in an amount equivalent
to twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000) to assist in the financing of a project
for water supply and sewerage works for the Dacca metropolitan area (hereinafter
called Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project);
(B)   On January 9, 1969 Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project was
substantially revised and Credit No. 41 was reduced to an amount equivalent to
thirteen million two hundred thousand dollars ($13,200,000);
(C)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association under
Credit No. 41 were suspended on December 29, 197 1;
(D)   by an exchange of letters between the Government of Sweden
(hereinafter called Sweden) and the Borrower on May 31, 1972 and June 2, 1972,
Sweden agreed to extend financial assistance to the Borrower as an interim source
of financing for certain projects of high developmental priority in the territories
of the Borrower, including Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
(E)   the Borrower has requested the Association to resume its financial
assistance for the continuation and completion of Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, by extending to the Borrower a
development credit for such purpose, and to include therein provision for repayment
to the Association of the principal amount of Credit No. 41 withdrawn from the
credit account opened by the Association thereunder and for repayment to Sweden
of the financial assistance extended by Sweden for Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage Project; and
(F)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herei:-, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Authority" means Dacca Water Supply
and Sewerage Authority established under Ordinance No. XIX of 1963, and includes
any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand
dollars ($13,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for the purposes set forth
in paragraph 6 of such Schedule and for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in S:chedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreemeit provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1 %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 1983 and ending October 1, 2022 each installment to and including the
installment payable on October 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
the funds facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 3.01, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit, or the
equivalent thereof, to the Authority upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Authority in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause the Authority to employ competent and


﻿6
experienced engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Authority to employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that
the land or rights in respect to land required for the execution, operation and
maintenance of the Project shall be acquired as and when needed for such purpose.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause the Authority to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause the Authority to maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause the Authority to furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause Part D of the Project to be carried
out in accordance with training programs satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Authority.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause the Authority to furnish to the
Association by June 30, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association) (i) the accounts and financial statements of
the Authority for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1972, (ii) a review of said accounts
and financial statements by competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the
Association, and (iii) such other information concerning said accounts and financial
statements and the review thereof as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall (i) cause the accounts and financial statements of
the Authority for each fiscal year after the year ending June 30, 1972 to be
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish or
cause the Authority to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said accounts and financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish or cause the Authority
to furnish to the Association such other information concerning said accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority at all times to
conduct its business in accordance with sound public utilities practices under
competent management.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority at all times to operate,
maintain, renew and repair its plants, equipment and machinery in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority to take out and maintain with
sound and reputable insurance companies, or make adequate provision for, insurance
against such risks and for such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public
utilities practices.


﻿8
Section 4.03. (a) The Bo-rower shall cause the Authority, in accordance with
a program to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association by
December 31, 1974 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association), to set and maintain rates for water supply and
sewerage services which will provide sufficient revenues:
(i)         to cover operating expenses, including taxes, if any, and interest
and to provide adequate maintenance and depreciation;
(ii)       to meet repayments on long-term indebtedness to the extent
that such repayments exceed the provisions for depreciation; and
(iii)       to finance the normal year to year extension of the water supply
and sewerage systems and to provide a reasonable portion of
the cost of future major expansion of such systems.
(b)   If at any time prior to a date to be established in the program referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03 the revenues of the Authority are not
sufficient to cover its cash operating expenses the Borrower shall ensure that the
Authority is provided, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, with funds to
cover such expenses.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority not to incur any long-term indebtedness unless the
Authority's net revenues for any twelve consecutive months out of the
fifteen-month period last preceding the date of such incurrence shall not be less
than 1.25 times the maximum debt service requirements on all the Authority's
long-term indebtedness (including the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal
year of the Authority.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   the term "long-term indebtedness" shall mean any debt maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred
and shall include the assumption or guarantee of such debt;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of the contract or loan agreement providing for such debt;
(c)   the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources
adjusted to take account of rates in effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the twelve consecutive months to which


﻿9
such revenues related, less operating and maintenance expeiises (including provision
for taxes, if any) but before provision for depreciation and interest and other
charges on long-term indebtedness;
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization, interest and other charges on debt;
(e)   whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the Authority,
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority not to incur short-term debt except for working capital
purposes in the ordinary course of the Authority's business. For the purposes of
this Section, the term "short-term debt" shall mean any debt maturing by its terms
not more than one year from the date on which it is incurred.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority not to undertake
any functions other than water supply and sewerage without prior consultation
with the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall not modify the area of jurisdiction of the
Authority, nor permit any modification thereof, without prior consultation with
the Association.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall grant the Authority a moratorium until
June 30, 1975 on the Authority's debt service obligations arising from all
Government loans made to the Authority prior to the date hereof, and shall by
December 31, 1974 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association) establish a revised schedule satisfactory to the
Association for the Authority's debt service payments with respect to said loans.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿10
(a)   exchange views through      their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform       each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them          of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿0                                  11
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shail occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Authority or for the
suspension of its operations unless arrangements acceptable to the Association shall
have been made to replace the Authority by an organization which will assume
and perform all the obligations of the Authority under this Agreement upon said
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified: the event specified in Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date June 9, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01(a) and
(c), 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement, and the provisions of
Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement, shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Chief of the Fxternal Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Condicions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
0
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN   WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Project Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expresscd in         Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
1.    Equipment and                   4,000,000.00      100% of foreign
materials for water                               expenditures or
supply and sewerage                               of local expendi-
systems                                           tures ex-factory
II.   Workshop, main-                   500,000 00      100% of foreign
tenance and office                                expenditures or
equipment, and                                    of local expendi-
vehicles                                          tures ex-factory
III.  Civil works for                 1,200,000.00     25% of total ex-
installation of                                   penditures
water and sewer
pipes
IV.   Consultants' services             810,000.00      100% of total ex-
penditures
V.    Training of staff                  50,000.00      100% of foreign
expenditures
VI.   Repayment of prin-              6,036,178.47
cipal amount with-
drawn under Credit
No. 41
VII. Unallocated                        603,821.53
TOTAL          13,200,000.00


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made under Categories I to V, inclusively, in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except as
provided in paragraph 6(a) hereof; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿16
(c)  if the Association   shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of total expenditures under Category III shall increase
and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in ordcr that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made; and
(b)   if the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
all Categories other than Category III shall exceed the requirements therefor, then
the Association may, at the request of the Borrower, reallocate such excess by
increasing correspondingly the amount allocated to Category III and by adjusting
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
having reference thereto.
6.    The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Credit Account and pay:
(a)   to Sweden, under Categories I to IV, respectively, the equivalent of
amounts disbursed by Sweden, until the Effective Date, in respect of items within
said Categories, under the interim financing arrangements for Dacca Water Supply
and Sewerage Project referred to in paragraph (D) of the Preamble to this
Agreement; and
(b)   to the Association, under Category VI, an amount equivalent to
$6,036,178.47, in full repayment in advance of maturity of the principal amount
of Credit No. 41 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded that, for the purpose of determining
the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid by the Borrower, in accordance
with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, this withdrawal shall be deemed to
have been made as of the respective dates of withdrawal under Credit No. 41.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the construction of new facilities and improvement
of existing facilities for the water supply and sewerage systems of metropolitan
Dacca, and includes the following Parts:
Part A
Water Supply
(i)         completion of 26 tubewells and construction of about 20
additional tubewells;
(ii)        rehabilitation and modification of the existing surface water
treatment plant;
(iii)       installation  of about 55 miles of distribution system    and
completion of a program for installation of street hydrants,
service connections and meters; and
(iv)        completion of three 1.0 IMg elevated storage tanks and, if
required, construction of 4 small low-level tanks.
Part B
Sewerage
(i)         completion of sewers under construction and rehabilitation of
existing sewers;
(ii)        completion   of   7  intermediate  pumping    stations  under
construction, construction of 1 new intermediate pumping
station and rehabilitation of existing intermediate pumping
stations;
(iii)       completion of main sewage pumping station, stabilization pond
and discharge channel; and
(iv)        completion of a program for installation of service connections.


﻿18
Part C
Buildings and Equipment
(i)         Completion of stores facilities and workshops, and installation
of equipment.
(ii)        Provision of vehicles, and maintenance and office equipment.
Part D
Training of staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Goods and services in Categories I to III, inclusively, of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972.
2.    With respect to any contract for goods and services in Categories I to III,
inclusively, of Schedule 1 to this Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed fo: the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services in Categories I
to III, inclusively, of Schedule I to this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish


﻿20
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Categories I and II of Schedule I to this Agreement, bid prices shall be
determined and compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of such
goods;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (Chittagong) landed price of such goods; and
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower.


﻿4E [Ap
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
1818 H STREET, N.W., WASHINGTON D. C. 20433 TELEPHONE: EXECUTIVE 3-6360
IDA Press Release No. 73/20           Subject: $23.35 million in credits for
March 29, 1973                                  water supply and project
preparation in Bangladesh
Bangladesh will be able to complete interrupted projects for improving
water supply in two principal cities -- Dacca, the capital, and Chittagong,
the main port -- and preparing feasibility studies and designs for possible
future irrigation and flood control projects,with the help of-three credits
totaling $23.35 million from the International Development Association (IDA),
an affiliate of the World Bank.
The credits replace three previous credits to Pakistan for the same
projects. Of the credits, $11.4 million will be used to repay amounts disbursed
under the former credits.
Two IDA credits of $13.2 million and $7.0 million will be devoted to the
Dacca znd Chittagong water supply projects, respectively. Thse projects were
initiatad in 1963, at which time only about one-third of the population rece'ived
any public water services, and the major part of the population had to rely on
inadequate and expensive private facilities which constituted a serious problem
to public health.
When completed in 1975, the Dacca and Chittagong water supply projects
will provide continuous on-premise water supply to 70% of the population of the
two cities. The rest of the population will be served by street hydrants being
installed. The Dacca project includes a sewerage element to provide services
to about 60% of its estimated population, as compared to 10% when the project
was initiated.
The main components of the $41.6 million Dacca project are construction of
46 tubewells, 170 miles of water distribution pipes, improvements in an existing
surface water treatment plant to double its capacity, 20,000 new water connek-
tions and 1,500 street hydrants, construction of a new sowage treatment plant,
and 150 miles of sewers. The water supply portion ofthe project is now about
75% completed and the sewerage portion about 45%.
/more


﻿IDA F.R. No. 73/20 -- Bangladesh -- water supply & project preparatio-n
-2 -
The $23.8 million Chittagong water supply project involves the construction
of about 13 tubewells, an iron removal plant, about 12,000 new water connections
and about 700 street hydrants, 100 miles of water distribution pipes, and the
detailed design of a surface water treatment plant. The project is now about
60% completed.
The third credit of $3.15 million finances engineering studies needed tc
prepare water control and irrigation projects for agricultural development and
are expected to be completed in 1975 at an estimated cost of $5.31 million.
Provision of irrigation, improved drainage, and flood protection in the areas to
be studied would make possible the use of fertilizers and improved varieties ot
rice which could eventually triple yields. However, these projects involve
complex technical problems and require comprehensive engineering studies to
provide data for rational investment decisions.
The Dacca and Chittagong credits to the Government of Bangladesh are for
terms of 50 years, including 10-year grace periods. The project preparation
credit.is for a term of 10 years, including two years of grace. The credits arc
interest-free but bear a service charge of 3/4 of 1% to meet IDA's administr-
tive expenses.
The Dacca Water and Sewerage Authority and the Chittagong Water and
Sewerage Authority are responsible for the execution of the Dacca and Chittagurg
water supply projects, respectively. Execution of the irrigation engineering
project will be the responsibility of the Bangladesh Water Development Board.
-0-


