CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 367 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chittagong Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 367 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chittagong Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1973, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) On August 16, 1963 the Association agreed to make avaiiable
a development credit (hereinafter called Credit No. 42) in an amount equivalent
to twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000) to assist in the financing of a project
for water supply and sewerage works for the Chittagong metropolitan area
(hereinafter called Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Project);
(B)   on January 9, 1969 Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Project
was substantially revised and Credit No. 42 was reduced to an amount equivalent
to seven million dollars ($7,000,000);
(C)   withdrawals from the credit account opened by the Association under
Credit No. 42 were suspended on December 29, 1971;
(D)   by an exchange of letters between the Government of Sweden
(hereinafter called Sweden) and the Borrower on May 31, 1972 and June 2, 1972,
Sweden agreed to extend financial assistance to the Borrower as an interim source
of financing for certain projects of high developmental priority in the territories
of the Borrower, including Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
(E)   the Borrower has requested the Association to resume its financial
assistance for the continuation and completion of Chittagong Water Supply and
Sewerage Project, as modified as hereinafter set forth, by extending to the Borrower
a development credit for such purpose, and to include therein provision for
repayment to the Association of the principal amount of Credit No. 42 withdrawn
from the credit account opened by the Association thereunder and for repayment
to Sweden of the financial assistance extended by Sweden for Chittagong Water
Supply and Sewerage Project; and
(F)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Developmont Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Authority" means Chittagong Water
Supply and Sewerage Authority established under Ordinance No. XIX of 1963,
and includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for the purposes set forth
in paragraph 6 of such Schedule and for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and Oct-ber 1 commencing
April 1, 1983 and ending October 1, 2022 each installment co and including the
installment payable on October 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 3.01, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit, or the
equivalent thereof, to the Authority upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Authority in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause the Authority to employ competent and
experienced engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿6
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Authority to employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that
the land or rights in respect to land required for the execution, operation and
maintenance of the Project shall be acquired as and when needed for such purpose.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause the Authority to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause the Authority to maintain,
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause the Authority to furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause Part F of the Project to be carried
out in accordance with training programs satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Authority.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause the Authority to furnish to the
Association by June 30, 1973 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association) (i) the accounts and financial statements of
the Authority for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1972, (ii) a review of said accounts
and financial statements by competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the
Association, and (iii) such other information concerning said accounts and financial
statements and the review thereof as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall (i) cause the accounts and financial statements of
the Authority for each fiscal year after the year ending June 30, 1972 to be
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
competent and experienced auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish or
cause the Authority to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said accounts and financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish or cause the Authority
to furnish to the Association such other information concerning said accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority at all times to
conduct its business in accordance with sound public utilities practices under
competent management.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority at all times to operate,
maintain, renew and repair its plants, equipment and machinery in accordance with
sound engineering practices.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority to take out and maintain with
sound and reputable insurance companies, or make adequate provision for, insurance
against such risks and for such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public
utilities practices.


﻿8
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority, in accordance with
a program to be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association by
December 31, 1974 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association), to set and maintain rates for water supply and
sewerage services which will provide sufficient revenues:
(i)         to cover operating expenses, including taxes, if any, and interest
and to provide adequate maintenance and depreciation;
(ii)        to meet repayments on long-term indebtedness to the extent
that such repayments exceed the provisions for depreciation; and
(iii)       to finance the normal year to year extension of the water supply
and sewerage systems and to provide a reasonable portion of
the cost of future major expansion of such systems.
(b)   If at any time prior to a date to be established in the program referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03, the revenues of the Authority are not
sufficient to cover its cash operating expenses, the Borrower shall ensure that the
Authority is provided, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, with funds to
cover such expenses.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority not to incur any long-term indebtedness unless the
Authority's net revenues for any twelve consecutive months out of the
fifteen-month period last preceding the date of such incurrence shall not be less
than 1.25 times the maximum debt service requirements on all the Authority's
long-term indebtedness (including the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal
year of the Authority. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   the term  "long-term indebtedness" shall mean any debt maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred
and shall include the assumption or guarantee of such debt;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of the contract or loan agreement providing for such debt;
(c)   the term  "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources
adjusted to take account of rates in effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the twelve consecutive months to which
such revenues related, less operating and maintenance expenses (including provision


﻿9
for taxes, if any) but before provision for depreciation and interest and other
charges on long-term indebtedness;
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization, interest and other charges on debt;
(e)   whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the Authority,
at tie time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority not to incur short-term debt except for working capital
purposes in the ordinary course of the Authority's business. For the purposes of
this Section, the term "short-term debt" shall mean any debt maturing by its terms
not mcre than one year from the date on which it is incurred.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority not to undertake
any functions other than water supply and sewerage without prior consultation
with the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall not modify the area of jurisdiction of the
Authority, nor permit any modification thereof, without prior consultation with
the Association.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall grant the Authority a moratorium until
June 30, 1975 on the Authority's debt service obligations arising from all
Government loans made to the Authority prior to the date hereof, and shall by
December 31, 1974 (or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association) establish a revised schedule satisfactory to the
Association for the Authority's debt service payments with respect to said loans.
Section 4.08. Upon completion of the Project the Borrower shall use its
best efforts to cause all potable water supply and sewerage services required for
the facilities of the Bangladesh Eastern Railways in Chittagong and for the
Chittagong Port Trust to be provided by the Authority.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be ,, -mplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time tu time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial concition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Authority.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations tinder the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes relhted to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid wi(hout deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿0                                    11
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Authority or for the
suspension of its operations unless arrangements acceptable to the Association shall
have been made to replace the Authority by an organization which will assume
and perform all the obligations of the Authority under this Agreement upon said
dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified: the event specified in Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date June 9, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01(a) and
(c), 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 4.08 of this Agreement, and the provisions
of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement, shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿13
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
B3 /s / A. R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                 % of
(Expressed in                Expenditures
Category.                 Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
I.    Equipment and                 1,500,000.00            100% of foreign
materials for                                         expenditures or
water supply                                          of local ex-
system                                                penditures
ex-factory
II.   Workshop, main-                300,000.00             100% of foreign
tenance and of-                                       expenditures or
fice equipment,                                       of local ex-
and vehicles                                          penditures
ex-factory
III.  Civil works for                350,000.00             15% of total
installation of                                       expenditures
water pipes,
booster pump
station and ele-
vated storage
tank
IV.   Consultants'                  1,210,000.00            100% of total
services                                              expenditures
V.    Training of                     50,000.00             100% of foreign
staff                                                 expenditures
VI.   Repayment of                 3,303,117.65
principal amount
withdrawn under
Credit No. 42
VII. Unallocated                     286,882.35
TOTAL         7,000,000.00


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made under Categories I to V, inclusively, in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement, except as
provided in paragraph 6(a) hereof; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrowur, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿16
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing Out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above;
(a)   if the estimate of total expenditures under Category III shall increase
and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made; and
(b)   if the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
all Categories other than Category III shall exceed the requirements therefor, then
the Association may, at the request of the Borrower, reallocate such excess by
increasing correspondingly the amount allocated to Category III and by adjusting
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
having reference thereto.
6.    The Association shall, on the Effective Date or as soon as possible thereafter,
withdraw from the Credit Account and pay:
(a)   to Sweden, under Categories I to IV, respectively, the equivalent of
amounts disbursed by Sweden, until the Effective Date, in respect of items within
said Categories, under the interim financing arrangements for Chittagong Water
Supply and Sewerage Project referred to in paragraph (D) of the Preamble to this
Agreement; and
(b)   to the Association, under Category VI, an amount equivalent to
$3,303,117.65 in full repayment in advance of maturity of the principal amount
of Credit No. 42 withdrawn from the credit account opened by the Association
thereunder, it being hereby agreed and recorded that, for the purpose of determining
the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid by the Borrower, in accordance
with Section 4.03 of the General Conditions, this withdrawal shall be deemed to
have been made as of the respective dates of withdrawal under Credit No. 42.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of construction of new facilities and improvement of
existing facilities for the water supply system of metropolitan Chittagong, and
includes the following Parts:
Part A      Completion of 13 tubewells, iron removal facility and booster pump
station.
Part B      Construction of about 175,000 feet of mains and distribution pipe,
and completion of a program for installation of street hydrants, service
connections and meters.
Part C      Construction of the 6.0 IMg Battali Hill reservoir.
Part D      Acquisition of land, access road and site development work, and
preparation of detailed design for a surface water treatment plant and
related facilities.
Part E      (i)   Completion of stores facilities and workshops, and installation
of equipment;
(ii)  Provision of vehicles, and maintenance and office equipment.
Part F      Training of staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Goods and services in Categories I to III, inclusively, of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972.
2.    With respect to any contract for goods and services in Categories I to III,
inclusively, of Schedule 1 to this Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding document, Jiall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform    the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services in Categories I
to III, inclusively, of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish


﻿19
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Categories I and II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, bid prices shalt be
determined and compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of such
goods;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (Chittagong) landed price of such goods; and
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower.


