Report No. 1443a-IN                                                            FILE  COPY
India Appraisal of the Rajasthan Agricultural
Extension and Research Project
July 7, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 =         Rupees (Rs) 9.00
Rs 1 = Paise 100               US$0.11
Rs I Million (M)     =         US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                                  =      2.2 pounds
1,000 kg                  =  1 metric ton              0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                      5    1.09 yards = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                       2         5    0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)        2        10,000 m                2.47 acres
1 square kilometSr (km ) =   100 ha              =    0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (m )                               =   35.39 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Mlarch 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA            Additional Director/s of Agriculture
ADR            Associate Director of Research
AEO            Agricultural Extension Officer/s
Asst. DA       Assistant Director of Agriculture
BDO            Block Development Officer/s
CCB            Central Cooperative Bank
DDA            Deputy Director/s of Agriculture
DEFM           Department of Economics and Farm Management (UOU)
GOI            Government of India
GOR            Government of Rajasthan
HYV            High Yielding Variety/Varieties
IRRI           International Rice Research Institute
ICAR           Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICRISAT        International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics
JDA            Joint Director/s of Agriculture
LDB            State Cooperative Land Development Bank
M              Million
PCS            Primary Credit Society/Societies
RBI            Reserve Bank of India
RSCB           Rajasthan State Cooperative Bank
SDEO           Sub-District Extension Officer/s
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
SRO            Senior Research Officer
SPU            Statistics and Planning Unit, Department of Agriculture
TO             Training Officer
UOU            University of Udaipur
VEW            Village Extension Worker/s
CROP SEASON
Kharif         Summer (Rainy) Season
Rabi           Winter (Dry) Season



FOR OfFICL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
THE RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............                                   i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION .......         .................................             1
II.    BACKGROUND    ......................................... .                   I
A.    Agriculture in Rajasthan ....................       ...1 
B.    Administration and Infrastructure             ..............         2
C.    Strategy for Agricultural Development               ..........       6
III.    THE PROJECT .........................................                       6
A.    General Description ............................                     6
B.    Detailed Features ......          .......................            7
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING              ........................        11
A.    Cost Estimates  ......          ...........................         11
B.    Proposed Financing ..............        ..    .............        12
C.    Procurement  ...........................................            12
D.    Disbursements and Audit ............        .. ..........           13
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................                     14
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................                     16
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....               ..........       18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture in Rajasthan
Table 1.     Principal crops, their acreage and production.
Table 2.     Size of land holdings in Project area.
Table 3.     Rainfall data for the Project area.
Table 4.     Area of principal crops in Project area.
Table 5.     Basic data for Project area.
2.   Agricultural Extension and Training
3.   Agricultural Research
4.   Project Costs
Table 1.     Summary of Project Costs.
Table 2a
and 2b.    Project Costs - Agricultural Extension.
Table 3.     Project Costs - Agricultural Training.
Table 4.     Project Costs - Agricultural Research.
Table 5.     Project Costs - Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Table 6.     Price Contingencies.
5    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
6.   Implementation Schedule
Table 1.     Schedule of Cumulative Staff Appointments.
Table 2.     Project Implementation Schedule.
7.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   Economic Analysis of Project
Table 1.     Economic Analysis.
Table 2.     Economic Price of Wheat.
CHART             Organizational Chart - World Bank - 16897
MAP               IBRD 12538



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE RAJASTHAN EXTENSION AN1D RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Overall growth in agricultural output in Rajasthan, the second
largest State in India, has barely kept pace with population increases and
in years of low rainfall considerable quantities of foodgrains are imported.
Encouraged by results of a new approach to agricultural extension, which was
pioneered under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-ItI)
and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 502-IN), Government
of Rajasthan (GOR) decided to reorganize and strengthen extension and suppor-
tive research in those 17 districts where there exists immediate potential
for improving agricultural production.
ii.       The five year project would:
(a) Provide additional staff, housing, offices, transportation
and training to consolidate the reorganization of the
extension service.
(b) Support existing commodity oriented basic and applied
research and establish adaptive research facilities at
12 GOR farms by farm development, provision of staff,
equipment, laboratory facilities and hostel accommodation.
(c) Provide staff, equipment and funds for studies to evaluate
and monitor project progress and impact.
iii.      Total project costs (inclusive of contingencies) are estimated at
Rs 239 million (US$26.56 million). The proposed IDA credit of US$13 million
would finance 51% of project costs, net of duties and taxes, including for-
eign exchange costs of US$0.o aillion.
iv.       The main items to be financed would include civil works, mainly
construction of housing and offices, purchase of vehicles, including motor-
cycles and bicycles; and equipment. Civil works contracts (US$2.4 million)
would be small and widely dispersed, both geographically and over time; and
would therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding following
local advertising. There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry
out civil works. About 120 vehicles of various types (US$0.9 million) would
be required and would be purchased in small quantities over three years and
would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance and avail-
ability of spares would be of paramount importance, this would necessitate
purchase of vehicles of types already widely used by Government Departments
and which are locally manufactured. Procurement would be by local competitive
bidding under existing procedures; motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.6 million)
would be purchased by individual staff, according to their preference as they



- ii -
would be expected to repay the purchase price. Orders for purchase of minor
equipment and furniture (US$0.96 million) would be bulked wherever possible
and purchased following GOR competitive bidding procedures, except where
orders are valued less than US$50,000 when they would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal trade channels. The balance of project costs (US$21.7
million) would consist of local training costs (US$1.1 million) incremental
staff salaries and traveling allowances (US$10.8 million), and the operating
expenditures of research stations, offices and vehicles (US$9.8 million). As
bulk procurement is not involved, expenditure would be according to existing
GOR procedures.
v.        Overall responsibility for implementation of the extension and
adaptive research programs would be with the Director of Agriculture, and that
for basic and applied research with the Director of Research, Agricultural
University of Udaipur. An Additional Director of Agriculture would be re-
sponsible for day to day administration of agricultural extension, assisted
by three Joint Directors, one each for administration, adaptive research and
extension. A Senior Research Officer (SRO) located at each regional research
stations, would be responsible to Director of Research for carrying out an
agreed program of work at the station and its associated sub-stations. An
agronomist responsible to the Director of Agriculture would supervise the
adaptive research program on existing Government farms and on farmers fields.
vi.       Neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close coordination at all administrative levels. A Project Coordination
Committee, chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner would ensure
cooperation between various Government organizations and the University. A
State Level Research Coordination Committee, chaired by the Director of Agri-
culture and comprising research and extension staff from Regional and District
levels, would provide a mechanism to evaluate seasonal research results, de-
fine programs for further research, approve detailed district programs for
extension and propose annual programs of farm level field demonstrations of
already proven agricultural practices. Regional Research Coordination Com-
mittees would formulate and review extension and research programs at local
level for ratification by the State Level Research Coordination Committee.
Monitoring of the project would primarily be the responsibility of a unit to
be located in the Department of Agriculture; an independent evaluation of
project impact would be carried out under the direction of the Agricultural
Production Commissioner by the Evaluation Organization with funds provided
under the project.
vii.      Total project costs over the five year period, including physical
contingencies, amount to about US$7.8 per farm family (assuming there are 2.9
M farm families in project districts). Incremental costs, following project
completion, would be about US$0.90 per farm family per annum, compared to GOR
present annual budget expenditures on agricultural development alone of about
US$3.0 per farm family (assuming 4.0 million farm families Statewide) and
which excludes investment in forestry, soil conservation and irrigation.
viii.     The design of the project, its timing, scope, relative size of
project components and organizational arrangements are based on past expe-
rience with similar successful agricultural extension and research reorga-
nization in India. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of



- iii -
project is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural
practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely
to extension and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in
Rajasthan to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However,
there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of util-
ization of resources which would be brought about by the project, would
generate a high rate of return. The principal economic benefit of the proj-
ect would be an increase in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Given the present cropping pattern (wheat 17%, pulses 17%, lower valued cereals
43% and other minor crops 23%), it would be reasonable to expect that by Year
7 crop yields, over at least 50% of all land cropped to cereals and pulses,
would increase by 30 kg per ha or by less than 4% over the "without project"
situation, giving an economic rate of return of 50%. Given the performance
of the new extension service, elsewhere in India, there is little risk these
yield increases would not be attained, since the best farmers in Rajasthan
already obtain nearly twice current average yields and, on research stations
substantially higher yield levels than these are achieved. This high rate of
return should, however, be treated with caution since, as improved agricul-
tural practices spread, further investments in infrastructure and services
would become necessary.
ix.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient orga-
nization and management of extension and research services as well as on
farmers' response. Experience with on-going projects has already demon-
strated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project is
different from ongoing activities in that it mainly concentrates on rainfed,
rather than irrigated areas and for this reason, there is a somewhat higher
degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increases. However, there are
a significant number of improved practices and research findings suitable
for dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under rainfed
conditions.
x.        In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through investment in irrigation and
through use of 'optimal' packages of practices, involving HYV with substantial
doses of fertilizer and pesticides. The reorganized extension service would
focus first on improved cultural practices and better farm management and use
of low cost inputs; adoption of these recommendations would primarily involve
more labor -- an asset most small farmers have in abundance. Thus, aside from
generating high economic benefits, the project would have a beneficial impact
on marginal and small farmers, now living close to the poverty line.
xi.       The project is considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.0
million.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE RAJASTHAN EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Rajasthan, the second largest State in area in India has a popula-
tion of about 28 million, comprising some 4 million farming families cultivat-
ing 16 million hectares of land. Of this cultivated land only 13% is irrigated.
Despite impressive results in some areas, particularly irrigation, overall
growth in agricultural output has barely kept pace with population increases
and in years of low rainfall considerable quantities of foodgrains are im-
ported. Present crop yields are low and yields from rainfed areas have
generally remained stagnant over the past years.
1.02      Encouraged by results of a successful approach to extension which
was pioneered under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN)
and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 502-IN), the Govern-
ment of Rajasthan (GOR) decided to extend coverage to five further districts
in 1974/75 and a project proposal was submitted to Government of India in
January 1975. This proposal was subsequently modified in 1976 to include
all those 17 eastern districts with good potential for improving agricultural
production. The project was submitted to IDA in mid-1976 with a request for
financial assistance in its implementation.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Rajasthan in October 1976, comprised of Messrs. C.P.R. Nottidge,
Y. Elkana, F. Schorosch and A. Sfeir-Younis (IDA) and Messrs. S. Freiberg
and G. Mathia (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in Rajasthan
2.01      RajastPan, located in the northwest of the country, has an area of
about 342,700 km (11% of the total area of India) and a population increasing
at about 2.8% annually. The economy is predominantly rural with agriculture
accounting for about 45% of State income and 75% of employment. Population
density varies from as little as 5 persons per square kilometer in desert
areas to about 200 on the fertile plains of Bharatpur district.
2.02      Topography, Climate and Soils.  Northwestern Rajasthan, with an
annual rainfall of less than 300 mm, is largely arid with about 13 million ha
of desert. The Aravalli Ranges running from northeast to southwest, separate
desert areas from more fertile plains and plateaux of the southwest where
rainfall ranges from 500 to 1,000 mm. Generally, about 70% of rain falls in



- 2 -
the months of July and August. Rainfall is erratic and deficient rainfall
(less than 25% of normal) can be expected once in every three years. Tempera-
tures range from about 38 0C in May to 10 0C in December through February.
Further details are in Annex 1.
2.03      Land Tenure and Distribution.  The 1970/71 agricultural census in-
dicates that 30% of holdings (2% of the cultivable land) are less than 1 ha,
65% (13% of the cultivable area) less than 3 ha and 5% greater than 10 ha.
Generally, holdings are highly fragmented. Most land is owned and self-
operated (89%) with 5% being part owned and 6% rented. 70% of rented holdings
are less than 2 ha. Further details are in Annex 1.
2.04      Agricultural Production.  Of the State's 34.3 M ha, 15.9 M ha are
cultivated with an annual cropping intensity of 112%, giving a total cropped
area of 17.9 M ha in 1974/75. Of this area 2.38 M ha (13% of total cropped
area) are irrigated. Foodgrains cover 13.8 M ha (77% of cropped area) and
oilseeds 1.2 M ha (7% of cropped area). During the period from 1952 to 1962
the area under food and commercial crops expanded annually by some 3.4% but
since then growth in the cropped area has dropped sharply to 0.70% p.a., indi-
cating that little new land is available for cultivation. The annual growth
in production of food and non-food crops was 2.7% during period 1952 to 1961
and 3.6% from 1962 to 1971 when HYV of pearl millet, sorghum, maize, paddy
and wheat were widely introduced and foodgrain production in 1973/74 reached
the all-time high of 6.7 M tons (3.1 M tons from rabi (winter) crop and 3.6 M
tons from kharif (summer) crop). Since 1971, production has varied consider-
ably from year to year due to erratic rainfall. More details are in Annex 1.
B. Administration and Infrastructure
2.05      Organization.  Rajasthan is divided into 26 Administrative Districts,
each headed by a Collector (also the District Development Officer), and 232
Panchayat Samiti, the local rural administrative unit, headed by a Block
Development Officer (BDO). Local participation in Government sponsored devel-
opment programs is ensured through popularly elected local government bodies -
Panchayats at village level, Panchayat Samitis at the Block and the Zilla
Parishad at district level -- which are under the control of the Collector.
The Department of Agriculture (DA) headed by a Director, answerable to the
Agricultural Production Commissioner, is responsible for execution of all
agricultural programs in the State. The Department, whilst generally respon-
sible for agricultural extension, relies, at field level, on employees of the
Development Department to undertake this function (2.06). Until recently,
the Department was responsible for seed production, which is now being
transferred to the State Agro-Industries Corporation. Besides providing
farmers with advice and materials for plant protection, the Department com-
piles, at field level, anticipated demands for credit and inputs, undertakes
a Statewide program of soil and water conservation and is responsible for
implementation of special development schemes. To carry out these activities



- 3 -
the Director of Agriculture is assisted at headquarters by two Additional
Directors (ADA), a number of Joint Directors (JDA) and several subject matter
specialists (SMS) of the rank of Deputy Director (DDA). Organizational
arrangements are shown in Chart - World Bank 16897.
2.06      In the field, agricultural programs are coordinated by five regional
JDA, assisted by SMS and each controlling a number of districts, headed by a
District Agricultural Officer (DAO) . Extension at level of the Block, how-
ever, is the responsibility of the Development Department - the Department
which employs local level extension workers. At this level there is one
Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) giving technical advice to some 10 Vil-
lage Level Workers (VLW), each working with about 2,000 families. VLW are
multipurpose workers and have responsibility for carrying out many programs
unrelated to agricultural development. In Intensive Agriculture Development
Districts staffing levels are higher and under centrally sponsored development
schemes (e.g. vegetable, sugarcane and Drought Prone Areas Projects) additional
staff are also provided. Whilst AEO and VLW are locally responsible for agri-
cultural extension, their effect is dissipated by the many functions expected
of them, complex lines of technical control and supervision, and the large
number of farmers each worker is expected to reach. This has resulted in
little time being devoted to agricultural production, few and sporadic farm
level contacts, and low impact on yields, particularly of small farmers.
Further details are in Annex 2.
2.07      Training of Agricultural Staff.  AEO are usually direct recruits
from agricultural colleges who subsequently receive minimal in-service train-
ing. VLW are generally secondary school leavers, recruited after completion
of a two-year pre-service course given at one of the Development Department's
seven Gramsevak Training Centers, all but two of which have now been closed.
There is very limited in-service technical training for VLW and many older
AEO and VLW received their basic training before many of the more recent
technological advances.
2.08      Agricultural Research.  Three major institutions conduct agricul-
tural research in Rajasthan; the Department of Agriculture, the Indian Council
of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the University of Udaipur (UOU). Over the
last nine years, research stations with all facilities and attached staff of
the Department of Agriculture were gradually transferred to UOU culminating
in the final transfer in April 1976 of all remaining stations, including the
largest at Durgapura. Only those research stations located in Command Area
Development Projects, which include the irrigation schemes of the Rajasthan
Canal and Chambal areas, remain for the present with the Command Area authori-
ties; these are manned by staff of the Department of Agriculture. Such sta-
tions undertake research entirely devoted to the needs of cultivators in
Command Areas. Further details are in Annex 3.
2.09      Responsibility for adaptive research still remains with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture but the University of Udaipur, as of this year, has been
given full responsibility for conducting basic and applied agricultural re-
search for the State as a whole. Until recently, the primary function of the
University had been teaching with research forming part of higher degree



- 4 -
studies, particularly at the two campuses of Udaipur and Jobner. Agricul-
tural research at UOU is under a Director of Research who is responsible for
coordination and evaluation of research programs at the University and for
administrative direction of all research stations. Research projects are
formulated by a University Committee and then reviewed biannually, prior to
the summer and winter crop seasons, by a State Research Advisory Committee
composed of the Director of Research, Director of Agriculture and Directors
of Animal Husbandry and Extension Education and Deans of Agriculture, Engineer-
ing and Home Science and two progressive farmers.
2.10      At present UOU has 13 research stations and farms where profes-
sional staff are located. The two main stations are at Durgapura (103 pro-
fessional staff) and Udaipur (79 professionals) with regional stations located
at Kota (37 staff), Banswara (14), Jobner (21), Sriganganagar (32), Sumerpur
(26) and Vallabhner (20). The remaining five small stations have only 18
professional staff between them. There are also six undeveloped farms belong-
ing to UOU where no professional staff are presently located but which could
be developed as research stations. Fully 70% of professional research staff
are financed by ICAR through 47 centrally sponsored research schemes.  This
financing has been responsible for the major research impact in the State.
2.11      ICAR has three research units in Rajasthan; the Central Arid Zone
Research Institute (CAZRI) at Jodhpur engaged on research for arid areas of
India, the Training, Demonstration and Research Center for Soil Conservation
at Kota and the Sheep and Wool Research Institute at Avikanagar, undertaking
pasture and breed improvement.
2.12      Basic, applied and some adaptive research is undertaken at UOU
stations for all major crops grown throughout the state with emphasis on
breeding and testing of suitable varieties, improved cultural practices, and
pest and disease control. Past work has seen the release of several improved
varieties of wheat, barley, pulses, millets and other minor crops and develop-
ment of cultural and plant protection recommendations for these crops. Past
research, however, has largely concentrated on producing recommendations for
irrigated rabi crops, using HYV and high levels of fertilizer application.
Insufficient attention has been paid to rainfed crops and to providing small
farmers with recommendations as to how they might maximize yields given
little or no access to credit. Centrally sponsored crop research schemes,
whilst responsible for the major research impact, are, by virtue of their
content, more oriented to national requirements than those of State and re-
gional needs. In addition, research workers, at major research stations,
normally devote much of their time to teaching, resulting in insufficient
attention being given to research programs. In the past, limited funds have
been available from the State for research and most of these have been devoted
to the staffing and running of main research stations. This has resulted in
a lack of research to evaluate and adapt agronomic practices under the dif-
ferent agroclimatic regions of the State. This major constraint to a more
comprehensive and effective program can be largely removed by the establish-
ment of adaptive trials centers, provision of sufficient operating funds,
equipment, laboratory facilities, staff and housing. Further details are in
Annex 3.



- 5 -
2.13      Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit is provided by two coo-
perative institutions, one dealing with short and medium term and the other
with long term credit. The Rajasthan State Cooperative Bank (RSCB), operatir?
through Central Cooperative Banks at district level and having 159 branches
throughout the State, provides short and medium term credit to Primary Credit
Societies, situated at village level and organized on the basis of about one
society to each Panchayat. The Rajasthan State Land Development Bank (RSLDB),
again operating through district level banks, provides long term credit to
farmers. Loans issued annually have expanded rapidly; those of RSCB having
increased from Rs 88 million in 1971/72 to Rs 627 million in 1975/76 and
those of RSLDB from Rs 47 million to Rs 66 million over the same period. A
great deal of effort has recently been directed toward revitalization of the
cooperative movement and improving the collection of outstanding loans.
Administrative procedures have been streamlined and percentage of outstanding
short term loans recovered has improved from 42% in 1971/72 to 75% in 1975/76.
The continued expansion of credit will depend largely on upgrading managerial
capabilities, streamlining operational procedures and continued support for
collection of overdues.
2.14      Fertilizer, Seeds and Pesticides.  Average fertilizer use at 3.4
kg/ha of all nutrients is well below the all-India average of about 16 kg/ha.
Total fertilizer consumption in 1975 was 58,000 nutrient tons. Distribution
is through the State Cooperative Marketing Federation (SCMF) (handling 40%
of sales) and about 1,100 private dealers and agro-service centers. SCMF
operates through 1,200 Statewide Cooperative Marketing Societies. Before
each cropping season, the Department of Agriculture prepares Statewide esti-
mates of likely consumption which are then passed on to distributing agencies
for action. In addition to storage godowns of marketing and village service
cooperatives, there are godowns belonging to the State Warehousing Corpora-
tion and Central Warehousing Corporation capable of storing some 33,000 MT of
fertilizer (para 2.17). This storage is generally underutilized and should
meet requirements over the project period especially as extension efforts
will be largely directed to the adoption of improved husbandry practices.
2.15      Production of high quality seed is well provided for and is under-
taken on farms owned by the Directorate of Agriculture and through registered
seed-growers. Distribution is now the responsibility of the State Agro-
Industries Corporation. There is no shortage of seed of recommended varie-
ties of the principal crops grown throughout the State.
2.16      The major constraint to wider use of pesticides relates to the
weakness of the extension services and difficulty of application by farmers.
Provision of plant protection specialists under the proposed project should
help remedy this.
2.17      Marketing and Storage.  A network of regulated markets has been
established throughout the State to better control the buying and selling of
agricultural produce. A State Agricultural Marketing Board presently controls
184 regulated markets operating under 96 Market Committees. These markets as-
sure a fair price for all produce as it is sold by open auction. Development
of market yards and their maintenance is financed both through State and



- 6 -
centrally sponsored schemes, or through a cess levied at the rate of 1% of
value of produce sold. The Rajasthan State Warehousing Corporation, set up
in 1956 to provide storage facilities, has so far constructed 51 warehouses
at 31 markets, with a total capacity of 148,000 MT. The Corporation in addi-
tion has hired capacity of some 75,000 MT. Whilst at present there are no
major overall marketing or storage problems, the situation will have to be
carefully monitored so that additional capacity is provided in a timely
fashion.
C. Strategy for Agricultural Development
2.18      Production increases over the past decade have come largely from
irrigated crops, while yields from rainfed areas have remained stagnant. In
the past, emphasis has been placed on raising production through use of high
cost inputs, including HYV, fertilizer, and irrigation, thus benefiting the
larger farmer and bypassing the majority of marginal and small farmers (para
2.12). To redress this balance and to raise foodgrain production in the short
run, emphasis will have to be placed on raising yields largely through better
agricultural practices, such as timely sowing, optimal plant populations and
better weeding. The main priority for increasing agricultural production thus
lies in closing the gap between the present practices of the majority of far-
mers and existing technology used by the best farmers, thus transferring to
farmers the knowhow of already proven but simple improvements. This can
largely be achieved by improvements to present agricultural extension methods.
However, such improvement needs to be backed by an effective and responsive
adaptive research program as a successful extension service will quickly
generate demand for more sophisticated advice. Existing technology will
suffice for the next.few-years, but additional research is needed to bring
new technologies forward after that time. The proposed project is aimed at
building on these opportunities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural exten-
sion service, provide support for existing basic and applied agricultural re-
search, and upgrade and develop adaptive research in 17 of 26 administrative
districts of Rajasthan with the objective of achieving early and sustained
improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. These
improvements in production would largely be brought about by the wide adoption
of low cost, labor intensive agricultural practices. The design of the proj-
ect, its timing, scope, relative size of project components and organizational
arrangements are based on past experience with similar successful agricultural
extension and research reorganization in India and is the fifth of its kind to
be supported by IDA.



- 7 -
3.02      The five-year project would comprise:
(a)  Reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension
service. Provision of additional staff, housing, offices,
equipment, transportation and staff training to consolidate
the reorganization;
(b) Support for existing basic and applied research and estab-
lishment of adaptive research facilities. Provision of staff,
equipment, hostel accommodation, farm development and laboratory
facilities; and
(c) Project monitoring and evaluation. Provision of staff,
equipment and funds for studies to evaluate and monitor
project progress.
B. Detailed Features
1. Agricultural Extension
3.03      Under the project, agricultural extension would be reorganized and
intensified in 17 of 26 administrative districts (see Map IBRD 12538). The
reorganization would follow the pattern successfully used in the Rajasthan
Canal and Chambal Command Areas over the past three years, with all extension
staff being controlled by the Director of Agriculture. The project would
provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with up to date advice on
and demonstrations of farming practices best suited to their specific condi-
tions and capable of having an immediate impact on production and income.
This would be achieved by strictly programmed visits from regularly trained
field staff supported by professional advice from within the Department of
Agriculture and from Research. To ensure a timely flow to farmers of credit
and input supplies, extension staff would continue to assess detailed require-
ments by assisting cooperative societies and other agencies in estimating
needs.
3.04      Based on an average of one Village Extension Worker (VEW) to every
720 farm families, about 4,000 VEW would be required to cover 2.9 million
farm families located throughout the project area. Actual number of farmers
covered by each VEW would vary from about 500 to 900 depending on population
density and communication network. Each main group (circle) would be divided
into 8 smaller groups (chaks) of 60 to 110 farmers, each chak would be visited
regularly on a given day of the week. Based on four visit days each week, each
chak would be visited once in every two weeks. In intensive agricultural
areas, during certain seasons weekly visits might be required. VEW would work
primarily through about 8-10 contact farmers selected from amongst each chak.
The message communicated to farmers would be simple, concentrating on the most
important crops of their locality and initially on improved cultural practices
of immediate relevance. VEW would receive the extension message at training
sessions held one day in a two week period by his supervisor, an Agricultural



- 8 -
Extension Officer (AEO), supported by Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (para
3.05). The three days remaining in the two week period (one rest day per
week), would be devoted to demonstrations, field trials, making up missed
visits and administrative work. Further details are in Annex 2. Fortnightly
training of VEW by AEO and SMS would be a major feature of the extension
system. AEO would be trained for two days each month at sub-divisional and
district level by district staff, backed up by staff from research stations.
Limited equipment and extension aids would be required for staff training and
extension work and this would be provided under the project, together with a
fully equipped mobile cinema van for each district.
3.05      Technical Support and Supervision.  To ensure satisfactory super-
vision, training and control of field staff, the project's seventeen districts
would be further divided into 50 sub-districts, each headed by a Sub-District/
Training Officer. These posts would be filled by upgrading existing AEO or by
transferring suitable district staff to these field posts. Each sub-district
(comprising about 3-4 Blocks) would be staffed by 10 AEO and 80 VEW. To
strengthen technical backup, the project would provide two SMS at each of the
new sub-districts, one each in agronomy and plant protection. At district
level, the project also provides for specialists, one in information and train-
ing and one to give technical support in such matters as water management, farm
implements, entomology, pathology and horticulture. Farm management support
would be given by an Agricultural Economist located at regional level (para
5.11). SMS would spend their time about equally between field visits (includ-
ing supporting lower level staff), research and training. Provision has also
been made for other additional support staff (details at Annex 4, Tables 2a
and 2b). At district level, staff would be increased under the reorganization,
the post of District Agricultural Office (DAO) would be upgraded to Deputy
Director of Agriculture (DDA) level in case of eleven districts and an addi-
tional post of Administrative/Input Officer added to the present district
establishment.
3.06      Staffing and Project Phasing.  Some 4,000 VEW and 540 AEO are re-
quired to achieve the recommended staffing levels (Annex 2). GOR has issued
an order (a) transferring to the Department of Agriculture about 980 VLW pre-
viously working for the Community Development Department, and (b) redeploying
about 800 low level agricultural workers otherwise engaged in the Department
of Agriculture to agricultural extension work; thus providing about 1,800 VEW.
In addition, some 260 AEO posts are in existence. It is proposed that all
districts should be fully staffed within a three year period and this would
require the training, over this period of about 2,200 VEW and 275 AEO. De-
tailed training proposals are at Annex 2. SMIS would be mainly recruited
from within the Department of Agriculture but would require additional train-
ing (para 3.08). Some SMS would also be seconded from the University. Assur-
ances were obtained that staff would be appointed in accordance with the
schedule in Annex 6, Table 1.
3.07      Housing, Sub-divisional Offices and Transportation.  The proposed
extension methodology is based on regular and frequent farm visits by exten-
sion staff. It is essential, therefore, that field level staff and their
supervisors live near their work and that they are sufficiently mobile to
enable them to function effectively. At present, housing available for rent
in rural areas is limited and extension workers often live far from their



place of work and have to rely on public transport, thus spending much of their
time traveling. Assurances were obtained that GOR would ensure that VEW wovM, 
live in the area assigned for their operations, and for this purpose GOR woul
provide such housing as necessary. Assurances were also obtained that GOR
would furnish to IDA, for its review, the standard design and cost estimates
of proposed housing and these were reviewed at negotiations. The project
would provide modest housing for about 20% of field level and sub-district
staff and would finance construction of 50 sub-district offices cum training
halls, their equipment and furniture. This housing, estimated to cost Rs 7,500
(US$830) for a VEW house has, as yet, not been located and assurances were ob-
tained that GOR would, by December 31, 1978 complete a survey to locate sites
for VEW and AEO housing and sub-divisional offices. The project would also
provide for additional equipment and vehicles at headquarters, district and
sub-divisional levels and bicycles for VEW and motorcycles for AEO. Motor-
cycles and bicycles would be sold to staff on credit and assurances were
obtained that GOR would make available credit to staff, on such terms and
conditions as to create incentive for the purchase of motorcycles and bicycles.
GOR has recently reviewed traveling allowances. As these must be of sufficient
magnitude to provide sufficient incentive to ensure purchase and utilization
of vehicles by field staff, the level of such allowances was agreed at negotia-
tions. Further cost details are in Annex 4, Tables 2a and 2b.
3.08      Staff Training.  At the start of the project new staff would have
to be trained and others upgraded and the project provides fellowships for
SMS training and the incremental costs of inservice and short-term training.
Under the project, two training centers would be developed by the Department
of Agriculture, to provide pre-service training for future VEW, upgrading
courses for older VEW and short term training of other field staff. Buildings
would be constructed, classrooms added and transportation and equipment pro-
vided. A limited number of scholarships would also be provided to allow for
career development of selected VEW and AEO. Funds would also be provided to
enable cooperative society secretaries to receive some training in agriculture.
2. Adaptive Research and Trials
3.09      Under the project, adaptive research facilities would be set up or
strengthened to provide the extension service with simple and relevant tech-
nological messages suitably adapted to locality, size of farm and ability of
the farmer to invest and take risks. To achieve this, a network of five
main stations and seven sub-centers would be established thus covering the
main agro-climatic regions to be found throughout project districts. Main
Adaptive Trial Centers (ATC) would be located on DA farms in Alwar, Ajmer,
Kota, Jhalawar and Bhilwara Districts and sub-centers in Bharatpur, Pali,
Sirohi, Kota, Sawaimadhopur, Jaipur and Ganganagar Districts on seed farms
owned by the State Agricultural Inputs Corporation.
3.10      The commodity-oriented research program of UOU would continue to
identify and select improved varieties of the most important crops obtained
from national and international research institutions, with a package of



- 10 -
economically significant practices directed to substantially increasing crop
production and at the same time minimizing farmers' risk. Selected varieties
and production packages would be forwarded to ATC for further testing in each
of the different agroecological zones, concentrating initially on food crops.
At ATC, the most promising practices and varieties would be identified and
recommendations prepared for the extension service. ATC staff would work
closely with district extension teams, in particular SMS, as much of the work
at ATC would be done in response to needs of the local extension staff and
farmers. ATC would thus be the focal point for testing and introduction of
new practices and would also be used for training of extension staff.
3.11      The project would provide at the five main ATC, civil works, in-
cluding the construction of laboratory and farm buildings, tractor for farm
operations, and station development as required (water, electricity supply,
fencing, roads, etc.). Each site chosen for the establishment of ATC would
have modest dormitory and training facilities. Details are at Annex 4 Table
4. Assurances were obtained that staff would be appointed in accordance with
the Schedule in Annex 6 Table 1.
3.12      The project would also finance the ongoing basic and applied
research program at UOU, to the extent of Rs 27.6 M (US$3.06 M) over the
project period. It would provide for land development, equipment and gen-
eral operating costs of the research program and thus ensure that UOU would
continue to furnish ATC with recommended production practices. Existing
arrangements for basic and applied reasearch, as supplemented by additional
provisions in the project, would, therefore, be adequate to meet requirements
of the extension service over the next several years. Furthermore, to safe-
guard against any shortfall in the future, assurances were obtained that GOR
would, in consultation with ICAR, review by June 30, 1979, UOU research
facilities and programs. In the event that these prove to be inadequate, GOR
would take steps to remedy the situation to the satisfaction of IDA and
assurances were also obtained to this effect.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.13      An essential feature of the project would be the monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and its impact. Monitoring consists of the
timely gathering and analysis of data to measure the build up and performance
of the extension, research and input organizations. Monitoring of physical
and financial inputs, for example, recruitment of staff, provision of trans-
portation, equipment and housing, etc., would largely be carried out through
the normal reporting systems of the Agricultural Department. However, this
information needs to be supplemented to provide an external assessment of the
performance of the extension, research and inputs organizations and of farmers'
reaction to recommended practices. For this purpose, and to evaluate project
impact, for example, increased production resulting from the reorganized
extension service and increased farmers' income and distribution, the proj-
ect would provide for staff, equipment and funds for surveys (Annex 7 and
para 5.11).



- 11 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates, which include duties and taxes estimated
at about US$1.06 M, are given in Annex 4, and summarized below:
Thousand Rupees          Thousand US Dollars /a    Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Extension
Civil Works        18,540        -    18,540   2,060       -       2,060        -
Office and
Training
Equipment         5,670      427    6,097       630     47         677        7
Vehicles            9,432    2,818   12,250   1,048    313         1,361       23
Establishment /b 110,887    1,120  112,007  12,321    124         12,445        1
Sub-Total   144,529    4,365  148,894  16,059    484        16,543        3
Upgrading Training Centers
Civil Works         1,155        -     1,155      128     -          128        -
Equipment and
Vehicles            728        82      810       81      9          90       10
Establishment /b   8,035         -     8,035      893     -          893       -
Sub-Total     9,918        82   10,000   1,102        9      1,111        1
Research
Land Purchase
& Dev.            2,700       -      2,700      300     -          300       -
Civil Works         2,300        -     2,300      256     -          256        -
Equipment and
Vehicles          1,617       483    2,100      180     53         233      23
Establishment /b  27,034        551   27,585   3,004      61       3,065        2
Sub-Total    33,651    1,034   34,685   3,740    114         3,854        3
Evaluation and
Monitoring        4,043        60    4,103      449      7         456        2
Co-op Training      1,500        -     1,500      167      -         167        -
Total Before
Contingencies  193,641    5,541   199,182  21,517    614        22,131        3
Contingencies
Physical          5,193       273    5,466      577     31         608        5
Price            32,971    1,374   34,345   3,663    153         3,816        4
Sub-Total    38,164    1,647   39,811   4,240    184         4,424        4
Total Project
Costs           231,805    7.188  238,993  25,757    798        26,555        3
/a   US$1 = Rps 9.00
/b   Establishment costs include incremental operating costs, incremental
salaries and allowances and taxes.



- 12 -
4.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal.  Physical
contingencies have been applied on civil works (10%), equipment and furniture
(10%) and office and vehicle operating costs (5%) and average about 4% on
total basic project cost. Price contingencies have been applied cumulatively
as follows (Annex 4):
(a) Locally procured equipment, vehicles and local training;
1.5% for the remaining part of 1976; 6% in 1977 and 7%
thereafter;
(b) Civil works 1.5% for the remaining part of 1976, 7% in
1977, and 8% thereafter;
(c) Incremental establishment costs (salaries and allowances,
incremental extension and research operating cost), 4.5%
for the remaining part of 1976 and 6% per annum from 1977
onwards.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 239 M (US$26.56 M) inclu-
sive of taxes, duties and contingencies would be provided as follows:
IDA       GOR/GOI      Total
----------US$ Million------
13.00      13.56       26.56
(49%)      (51%)      (100%)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$13.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and,
would finance about 51% of project costs net of taxes and duties but includ-
ing foreign exchange costs of US$0.8 M. IDA funds would be channeled through
GOI to GOR Department of Agriculture, in accordance with GOI standard terms
and arrangements for the financing of State development projects. The balance
of project financing would come from GOR. As the timely provision of staff
is essential to the successful outcome of the project, retroactive financing,
to the amount of US$200,000 would be provided to meet the costs of salaries,
vehicles and training of VEW, AEO and SMS, for the period from March 1, 1977
to the date of Credit signing.
C. Procurement
4.04          The main items to be procured are:  civil works; vehicles,
including motorcycles and bicycles; and equipment. Civil works are small in
size and include small houses for VEW, offices-cum residence for AEO and farm
buildings. Both the Department of Agriculture and PWD are competent to over-
see construction. Civil works contracts estimated to cost in total some



- 13 -
US$2.4 M would be small and dispersed, both geographically and over time, and
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.  Contracts wol]d
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding following advertising arid
assurances were obtained accordingly. There are numerous qualified local
contractors to carry out civil works.
4.05      About 120 motor vehicles of various types (US$0.9 M) would be re-
quired under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities over
four years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate main-
tenance and availability of spares would be of paramount importance, this
would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already widely
used by Government Departments. Thus procurement would be by local competi-
tive bidding under existing GOR procedures, which are adequate. tMotorcycles
and cycles (US$0.6 M) would be purchased by individual staff, according to
their preference.
4.06      Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.96 M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased following competitive bidding
procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000, when they would be
purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels. Assurances
were obtained in accordance with the above.
4.07      The balance of project costs (US$21.7 M) would consist of local
training costs (US$1.1 M), incremental salaries and traveling allowances
(US$10.8 M) and operating costs of research stations, offices and vehicles
(US$9.8 M) not involving procurement.
D. Disbursements and Audit
4.08      Disbursements under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 80% of cost of civil works, local training, and for
locally procured equipment and vehicles; and
(b) 40% of total staff costs of extension and research
personnel engaged on the project.
4.09      There would be no disbursement against operating expenditures for
research stations, offices and vehicles because these would be difficult to
identify for purposes of disbursements documentation. Disbursements against
(a) would be fully documented with the following exceptions. Payments under
civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 50,000
and expenditures for locally procured items of equipment and vehicles costing
Rs 20,000 or less would be made against certified statements of expenditure.
Disbursement against (b) would be made against a certified statement of ex-
penditure, the documentation of which would be retained by Department of
Agriculture and would be available for inspection by IDA during the course
of Project review missions. GOR would have its internal auditors audit all
certificates of expenditure at least once every six months and furnish the



- 14 -
audit report to the Association promptly thereafter. A schedule of projected
disbursements is in Annex 5. Any savings in the Credit account would be re-
allocated by increasing the percentage disbursement of total staff costs.
4.10      Assurances were obtained that the Department of Agriculture would
keep a separate account of expenditures made under the project which would be
audited by an independent auditor in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Audited accounts would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Project Implementation.  Overall responsibility for implementation
of the extension and adaptive research programs would be with the Director of
Agriculture, Rajasthan Directorate of Agriculture, and that for basic and
applied research with the Director of Research, University of Udaipur (UOU).
As neither extension nor research can function effectively without close
cooperation, the relationship between the two services, already good, would
be formalized through regular meetings at State, regional and district levels
and through close working relation at district level (para 5.09).
5.02      Extension.  An Extension Implementation Unit, headed by an Additional
Director of Agriculture (ADA), would be responsible for day to day administra-
tion and control of the extension program in the 17 selected districts. ADA
would be assisted by three Joint Directors of Agriculture, one each for ad-
ministration, extension and adaptive research. The Implementation Unit would
be responsible for monitoring (para 5.11), recruitment and training of staff,
construction, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds and submission
of periodic progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA and which were
agreed at negotiations.
5.03      The reorganized extension program would involve a single line of
command from the Director of Agriculture, through region, district, sub-
district and AEO to the VEW. Until recently, VEW were still employed by the
Rajasthan Community Development Department and agreement has now been reached
as to their future status, with administrative action having been taken
to transfer an agreed number to the Directorate of Agriculture. Such action
was taken prior to credit negotiations (para 3.06). The Directorate of Agri-
culture has ceased to be directly involved in farm input supply but has re-
tained responsibility for providing plant protection materials and advice to
farmers. AEO and VEW would continue to help cooperative secretaries in com-
piling farmer needs for seed, fertilizer and credit.
5.04      Basic and Applied Research.  The Director of Research UOU, would
be responsible for execution of the basic and applied research programs, for
preparation and submission of financial estimates to the Director of Agricul-
ture (as State funds for research pass through DA), recruitment of staff,
construction, procurement, disbursement of and accounting for project funds



- 15 -
and submission of periodic research programs and progress reports in a form
acceptable to IDA and which were agreed at negotiations.
5.05      Each Regional Research Station would be headed by a Senior Research
Officer who would be responsible for carrying out an agreed program of work
(para 5.08) at the Regional Research Center and its associated sub-stations.
Director of Agriculture would appoint an agronomist to each ATC to supervise
field trials at ATC and on farmers' fields.
5.06      Cooperation between Agriculture, Research and Related Agencies.
Coordination at all administrative levels would be ensured through establish-
ment of Project Coordination and Research Coordination Committees at State
level and Research Coordination Committees at regional level.
5.07      Project Coordination Committee.  Chaired by the Agricultural Produc-
tion Commissioner, the Committee would be set up to meet at least once a year
and as required to review extension and research proposals. It would also be
responsible for ensuring cooperation between various Government organizations
and the University and would ensure that problems of credit, marketing and
input supplies, that might arise as a result of proposed extension programs,
were given due attention. It would include the Commissioner for Cooperation,
Directors of Agriculture and Command Area Development and representatives of
Rajasthan Seeds Corporation, Agro-Industries Corporation, Cooperative Market-
ing Federation, Warehousing Corporation, State Cooperative Bank, State
Land Development Bank and State Agricultural Marketing Board. Assurances
were obtained accordingly.
5.08      State Level Research Coordination Committee.  Chaired by the
Director of Agriculture and comprising Director of Research, ADA, regional
and district extension officers, heads of research stations and head of the
evaluation unit, the Committee would continue to meet at least twice yearly
and assurances to this effect were obtained. It would provide a formal mecha-
nism for review of seasonal extension and research results, particularly field
trials and demonstrations; approve future research and extension programs sub-
mitted by regional committees (para 5.09), generally review overall progress
and assess input and credit supply requirements associated with any extension
recommendations.
5.09      Regional Research Coordination Committees, chaired by the senior
regional Joint Director of Agriculture, would be established at each Re-
gional Research Station. The Associate Director of Research, District Deputy
Directors of Agriculture and Subject Matter Specialists would all meet at
least twice yearly to review and formulate extension and research programs
and submit proposals for ratification by the State Level Research Coordination
Committee.
5.10      Cooperating Institutions - Research.  ICAR and other national agri-
cultural research institutions would continue to furnish material and infor-
mation to regional research stations for screening, testing and evaluation.
Problems requiring basic and applied research would be relayed by these
stations to other universities and ICAR. Collaboration with international



- 16 -
institutions (IRRI, CIMMYT, ICRISAT and other key institutions elsewhere in
the world) would continue. Provision has been included in the project for
local training of research and extension staff at national institutions.
5.11      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring (and reporting) of physical
and financial inputs would be the responsibility of the Director of the Agri-
cultural Department or UOU as appropriate. As discussed in para 3.13, to
provide a measure of the degree of achievement of project goals, as well
as to generate data concerning the performance of project organizations,
this data needs to be supplemented with further monitoring and evaluation
on a sample basis by an external agency. This requires continued data
gathering and, for this purpose, the already established Evaluation Organi-
zation would be made responsible. This organization is located at headquar-
ters under a Senior Statistician and would be supported by small units at
regional level, each staffed by an Agricultural Economist and two or three
field data collectors. In turn, this ongoing evaluation would be supplemented
with in depth ad hoc studies. Funds have been provided for the Agricultural
Production Commissioner to commission outside agencies to help with evalua-
tion and to carry out ad hoc studies as required. Agencies suitably qualified
to do this would include the Department of Economics and Farm Management,
Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University, Jabalpur, or Agricultural Economics
Department, UOU. Because of the need for uniform procedures for monitoring
and evaluation of the proposed project and of similar projects being under-
taken in other States, GOI, concerned States and IDA are currently working
out details and it is expected that these would be completed by July 1977.
A summary of the draft report is in Annex 5. Assurances were obtained that
GOR would carry out continuous monitoring and evaluation of the project in
a manner to be mutually agreed with IDA by December 31, 1977. Results of
such monitoring and evaluation would be sent to IDA at least once a year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
6.01      Financial.  Total project costs over the five year project develop-
ment period, including physical contingencies, amount to about US$22.6 M or
US$7.8 per benefiting farm family. After the project development period,
incremental recurrent costs which would have to be met from GOR budget sources
would be about US$2.6 M annually or Us$0.90 per benefiting farm family. This
incremental requirement compares with GOR present recurrent expenditure of
about US$360 M (1975/76) and would be met without difficulty. These incre-
mental costs would be partly recovered by GOR through market levies (pre-
sently 1%) on agricultural produce entering commercial markets. Stimulation
of demand for agricultural inputs would also increase State revenues from
sales taxes on these items.



- 17 -
6.02      Economic.  The design of the project, its timing, scope, relat-L,
size of project components and organizational arrangements are based on past
experience with similar successful agricultural extension and research reo
ganization in India. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type
of project is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural
practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely
to extension and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in
Rajasthan to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. How-
ever, there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of
utilization of resources which would be brought about by the project, would
generate a high rate of return. The principal economic benefit of the proj-
ect would be an increase in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Given the present cropping pattern (wheat 17%, pulses 17%, lower valued cereals
43% and other minor crops 23%), it would be reasonable to expect that by Year
7 crop yields, over at least 50% of all land sown to food crops would increase
by an average of 30 kg per ha or by less than 4% over the "without project"
situation, giving an economic rate of return of 50%. Details are in Annex 8.
Given the performance of the new extension service, elsewhere in India, there
is little risk these yield increases would not be attained, since the best
farmers in Rajasthan already have obtained nearly twice current average yields
and, on research stations substantially higher yield levels than these have
been achieved. This high rate of return should, however, be treated with
caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread, further investments
in infrastructure and services would become necessary.
6.03      Social.  In the past, the agricultural development strategy has been
aimed at achieving production increases mainly through investment in irriga-
tion and through use of 'optimal' packages of practices, involving HYV with
substantial doses of fertilizer and pesticides. Adoption of these improve-
ments usually requires credit which, more often than not, is not available
to small farmers; consequently larger farmers have benefited most from past
programs. The reorganized extension service would focus first on improved
cultural practices and better farm management and use of low cost inputs;
adoption of these recommendations would primarily involve more labor -- an
asset most small farmers have in abundance. Thus the project provides a
unique opportunity for small and marginal farmers to benefit and therefore,
aside from generating high economic benefits, the project would have a bene-
ficial impact on marginal and small farmers, now living close to the poverty
line.
6.04      Project Risks.  The most  significant risk lies in the fact that the
effectiveness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an effi-
cient organization and management of extension and research services as well
as on farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects has already de-
monstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project is
different from ongoing activities in that it mainly concentrates on rainfed,
rather than irrigated areas, and for this reason, there is a somewhat higher
degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increases. However, there are
a significant number of improved practices and research findings suitable for



- 18 -
dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under rainfed
conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend to be less affluent
and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even though benefits may be
lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would still be considerable,
both in economic and social terms. A second generation risk would be faced
when the success of the new methodology generates demand for additional in-
puts. If this were not met, the resultant farmer frustration could adversely
affect the success of the extension effort. However, at this juncture and
for some time to come, the deficiencies in the existing network for supplying
farmers' inputs are related to the lack of demand and there is slack in the
network which can be taken up to meet additional demand. The Project Coor-
dination Committee, which is charged with overseeing the planning and execu-
tion of the extension effort, is also responsible for assessing seasonal
input requirements and should be able to ensure the development of arrange-
ments capable of coping with increased demand.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
major points that:
(a) GOR would ensure that VEW would live in the area assigned
for their operations and for this purpose would provide
such low-cost housing as necessary (para 3.07);
(b) GOR would, by December 31, 1978, complete the necessary
survey to locate sites for VEW and AEO housing (para 3.07);
(c) GOR would make available credit to staff on such terms and
conditions as to create incentive for the purchase of motor-
cycles and bicycles (para 3.07);
(d) all incremental Extension and Adaptive Research staff would be
appointed in accordance with the schedule (paras 3.06 and
3.14);
(e) GOR would, in consultation with ICAR, review by June 30, 1979
UOU research facilities and programs and in the event that
these would prove inadequate, would take steps to remedy
the situation to the satisfaction of the Association (para 3.12);
(f) Department of Agriculture would keep separate accounts of
expenditures made under the project, to be audited by an
independent auditor in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Audited accounts would be submitted to the Association not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para 4.10);
(g) a Project Coordination Committee would be set up and would
meet at least once a year (para 5.07);



- 19 -
(h) the State Level Research Coordination Committee would con-
tinue to meet at least twice a year (para 5.08); and
(i) GOR would carry out monitoring and evaluation of the proj-
ect in such form as shall be agreed with the Association
by December 31, 1977, and that the results of such moni-
toring and evaluation would be sent to the Association
at least once year (para 5.11).
7.02      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
of US$13.0 million to GOI.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
A. Background
1.        General.  Rajasthan, the second largest state in India is located
in the northwest of the country and borders with Pakistan in the West,
Gujarat in the South, Madhya Pradesh to the East nd Haryana and Uttar Pradesh
in the North. It has an area of about 342,000 km (11% of total area of
India). From the point of view of climate, water resources, nature of soils
and rainfall, the State can be divided into four broad regions: desert, hills,
plain and plateau areas. The Arvalli Ranges running from northeast to south-
west, separate desert areas (13 million ha) from the more fertile plains and
plateaux of the south.
2.        With an estimated population of about 30 M (25.8 M in the 1971
census), Rajasthan ranks tenth in population among Indian States. Given
large desert areas, a rural population of about 24 M and a cultivable area
of 193,000 km   (about 569 of total land area), rural population density
is 124 inhabitants per km . About 2.4 M ha are irrigated (15% of net cropped
area of 16.0 M ha); mostly by canal (35%) and well irrigation (53%). Gross
cropped area is reported to be 17.9 H1 ha, giving a cropping intensity of 112%.
In north-western parts of the state livestock is the main source of income.
3.        The agricultural sector employs 76% of the working population,
about 85% of these are cultivators, the rest being agricultural laborers.
Agriculture (excluding animal husbandry) contributes 46% of net domestic
product of the state. Gross value of agricultural output in 1974/75 was
established at Rs 9,485 M, Rs 530 per ha of crop and Rs 395 per capita of
rural population.
4.        Land Distribution and Tenure.  Compilation and maintenance of all
land records in the State is governed by the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956.
For all matters connected with land and land revenue, a Board of Revenue has
been constituted, the chairman of which also acts as the Director of Land
Records. At district level, revenue administration is vested in the Collector,
at tehsil level in a Tehsildar, who is assisted by a number of Inspectors of
Land Records. These inspectors supervise a number of patwaris, who are
ultimately responsible for keeping all land records.



ANNEX I
Page  2
5.        Land tenure is governed by the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955.  This
act recognized six different classes of tenure. However, at present, the
number of tenure patterns prevailing has been reduced to three: direct
ownership, tenancies and share-cropping. The 1970/71 agricultural census
indicates that 25% of holdings (2% of the cultivable area) are less than I ha,
56% (13% of the land) are less than 3 ha and 14% greater than 10 ha. In
addition land holdings are highly fragmented. Most land is owned and self-
operated (89%) with 5% being part owned and 6% rented. Seventy percent of
rented land is in holdings of less than 2 ha.
6.        Geo-physical and Climatic Conditions.  The entire state is subject
to extreme climatic conditions. Highest maximum temperature is around
45 C while the lowest minimum temperature ranges between 1 C and 5 C.  In
normal conditions, the state receives an average rainfall of 590 mms annually,
mostly from the southwest monsoons during the period June to September.
Average annual rainfall ranges, however, between 160 mm in Jaisalmer district
in the west and 1,000 mm in Jhalawar district in the southeastern part of the
State. In general, districts in the north-western half of the state receive
low rainfall, i.e., below 500 mm annually, and are susceptible to drought
on account of failure of rains, the incidence of drought being the highest in
the western-most districts of Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Ganganagar
bordering Pakistan. Besides, districts in the north-western part of the state
have mostly sandy soils.
7.        Principal Climatic Zones.  On the basis of physiography, climatic
conditions and soils, the twenty-six districts of the state can be broadly
divided into two regions, one comprising the districts of Barmer, Bikaner,
Churu, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Nagaur and Sikar and the other
covering the remaining seventeen districts of the project area. The nine
districts in the former region are not endowed with good soil, adequate
rainfall and water resources and do not offer good prospects for development
of agriculture. The eastern districts have greater potential as they have
higher rainfall, better soils and an irrigation potential.
8.        Cropping patterns.  On account of scanty rainfall and poor irriga-
tion facilities, cropping patterns in the state are dominated by low-value
foodgrain crops as may be seen from the following table:
'000 Hectares
Crops            1952-3        1955-6       1965-6       1972-3          1973-4
Area    %    Area    %   Area    %   Area         %    Area      %
Foodgrains    7,142   65   9,984   79  11,207   75   12,158  76   13,700   77
Oilseeds         544    5      803    6   1,137    8    1,346   8    1,186   66
Cotton           145    1      245    2      278    2        343   2       -      -
Other Crops   3,108   29   1,516   13   2,350   15    2,250  14            -      -
Total         10,939  100  12,548  100  14,972  100   16,097 100           -      -



ANNEX 1
Page 3
In terms of value of agricultural output, a similar trend occurs. Production
estimates of the Rajasthan Directorate of Economic and Statistics show that
foodgrains accounted for about 80% of total gross value of agricultural output.
Non-foodgrains which, by and large, consisted of oilseeds contribute only 10%,
the balance being accounted for by agricultural by-products such as straw, and
fodder.
9.        Agricultural and Allied Development Schemes.  Major agricultural
development projects presently being implemented in Rajasthan are:
(i) Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project
(ii) Chambal Command Area Development Project
(iii) Drought Prone Areas Project (DPAP)
(iv) Dairy Development Project (DDP)
(v) Rajasthan Sheep Development Project (RSDP)
The two Command Area Development Projects are designed to maximize agricul-
tural production from irrigated areas by ensuring full utilization of an
irrigation potential already created. DPAP and RSDP aim at stabilizing
and upgrading the economy of farmers from arid and semi-arid districts in
particular. The DDP aims at maximizing production of milk and ensuring fair
returns to producers. IDA is part financing four of the five major projects.
B. Agricultural Production
10.       Agricultural production for the state as a whole in 1972-73, 1973-
74 and 1974-75, and the area under different crops is given in Table 1.
11.       Rajasthan produces about 6% of the foodgrains output of India and
occupies ninth place among states in this respect. In terms of area and
production of pearl millet, Rajasthan occupies first place among all states
and produces one-fourth of the country's output. However, average yield of
this crop is only 284 kgs/ha, considerably lower than the all-India average
of 457 kg/ha. This low yield is understandable since the arid districts of
Barmer, Jalore, Jodhpur, Nagaur and Jaipur account for nearly three-fifths
of the total output.
12.       Next to Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan is the biggest producer of rape
and mustard seed and accounts for 8% of national production. Alwar, Bharatpur
and Ganganagar districts account for about 85 percent of this production.



ANNEX I
Page 4
13.       Rajasthan is the second largest gram and barely producing state (Uttar
Pradesh being first) and produces one-sixth and one-fourth, respectively, of
national output. Both crops are widely grown but most production comes from
higher rainfall districts. While the districts of Alwar, Bharatpur, Ganganagar,
Jaipur and Sawai Madhopur produce 70% of gram, 60% of barley production is
accounted for by Alwar, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Udaipur and Tonk districts. The
average yield of gram at 661 kg/ha is lower than the average for Haryana and
Punjab which exceeds 800 kg/ha.
14.       Wheat is another important crop grown.  Rajasthan is the fifth
largest wheat producing state, accounting for 7% of national output. In
terms of money value, the crop accounts for 5% of the gross value of total
state output. The districts of Alwar, Bharatpur, Ganganagar and Kota from
non-tribal areas and Chittorgarh and Udaipur from tribal areas are the
principal wheat producing districts. Average yields of wheat at 1132 kg/ha,
are slightly below the all-India average of 1228 kg/ha.
15.       Rajasthan ranks fourth in maize production and produces one-tenth
of all maize grown in the country. The crop is mainly grown in tribal areas,
the districts of Banswara, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh and Udaipur accounting for
two-thirds of production. Though hybrid varieties of maize are gaining popu-
larity, average yield at 836 kg/ha is still below the all-India average of
1079 kg/ha.
16.       Among non-foodgrain crops, the area under sesamum is the largest,
and Rajasthan ranks third in national production. Pali District, which has
the lowest rainfall of the non-irrigated project areas (Table 3), accounts
for one-fourth of state production.
17.       There has not been any significant change in cropping patterns in
Rajasthan over the past two decades and the proportion of area sown to food-
grains has been more or less static as will be seen from the Table below. A
trend seems to be developing, however, toward the growing of high-value crops
such as wheat, groundnut and cotton.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Crop Variations 1960/61 - 1972/73
'000 Hectares
Percentage of variation
Crops                        Area                        between 1960-61
1960-61           1972-73                 and 1972-73
Foodgrains
Pearl Millet        4,558          5,234                   +15
Gram                1,378          1,204                   -13
WIheat              1,067          1,396                   +31
Maize                 650            801                    +23
Barley                474            433                    - 9
Non-foodgrains
Sesamum              421             454                   + 8
Rape and mustard    204              293                   +44
Groundnut            103             259                  +151
Cotton               201             343                   +71
18.       There has been no substantial increase in productivity over the
years and average yields of almost all major crops are well below national
average. In addition scanty and erratic rainfall coupled with inadequate
irrigation facilities cause wide annual fluctuations in agricultural output.
On account of excellent monsoon rains, production reached 8.8 M tons in
1969/70, but in 1971-72 had declined to 6.3 M tons and further to 5.2 M
tons in 1972-73. However, the position improved in 1973-74, when foodgrains
production again increased to 6.7 M tons as a result of good rains.
C. Project Districts
19.       Of the 26 districts in the state, 17 have been selected to form
part of the extension and research project. These 17 districts are: Kota,
Jhalawar, S. Madhopur, Banswara, Bundi, Tonk, Chittorgarh, Bhilwara, Bharatpur,
Alwar, Jaipur, Ajmer, Dungarpur, Udaipur, Sirhoi, Pali and Ganganagar. On the
basis of physiographic, climatic and irrigation potential these districts are
favorably endowed. Details of rainfall, size of holdings, area under different
crops and number of holdings and farm families are given in Tables 2 - 5.
20.       Sufficient technology exists for an immediate and widespread impact
on agricultural production by resolving crop related problems and this know-how
is already available at government and university research farms but will have
to be extended to farmers on a broad scale. This know-how includes answers to
a variety of problems such as:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(a) seed and soil treatment against various diseases and pests;
(b) optimum recommendations for plant protection;
(c) optimum levels of fertilizer application;
(d) use of phosphatic fertilizers for foodgrain production in
general and rhizobrium cultures in pulses.
These recommendations will need to be reinforced in the longer run, and
research directed toward improving rainfed crops and dryland farming. Priority
will need to be given to the following lines:
(a) developing high yielding, good quality, disease and pest
resistant varieties with drought resistance, and designing
appropriate farming systems and cropping patterns for these
varieties;
(b) developing packages of agronomic practices for all main
crops;
(c) soil and water management research for manufacturing and
improving soil productivity and making more efficient use
of scanty rainfall;
(d) adaptive research for effective application of results
generated at research stations; and
(e) developing improved farm implements in order to improve
cultivation practices aimed at better moisture conservation.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Principal Crops, their Acreage and Production
Crop                          (Area '000 Hectares)      (Production '000 Ton.
1972-73      1973-74      1972-73          1973-74
Foodgrains
Pearl Millet                5,334        5,713         864            2,181
Sorghum                       976        1,122         304              386
Maize                         801          837         661               343
Wheat                       1,396        1,672       1,749             1,789
Barley                        433          589         489               592
Rice                          136          132          80               118
Gram                        1,204        1,513         803               719
Pigeon Pea                     36           31          13                14
Other cereals and pulses       1,942        2,104         190               571
Sub-Total        12,258       13,713       5,153             6,713
Non-Foodgrains
Sesamum                       454          476          27                59
Rape and mustard              293          378         215               112
Linseed                        55           87          14                26
Groundnut                     259          242         125               141
Sugarcane                      34           40       1,350             1,940
Chillies                       32           -           13               -
Cotton                        343          302         287               284
Tobacco                         6           -            4
Others                         14           -           10
Sub-Total         1,490        1,525       1,758             2,2781/
T 0 T A L                     13,748       15,238        6,9131/          8,9111/
1/ Excludes cotton



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Size of Holdings in Project Area
Size Plot       Number of   Total Area    Average    Percentage of   Percentage of
Holdings                    Size       Total Number    Total Area
of Holdings
(ha)                           (ha)          (ha)                          (ha)
Below     0.5      453,025      117,362        0.26         16.3              1.2
0.5  -   1.0      419,185      304,287        0.73         15.1              3.2
1.0  -   2.0      595,018      860,216        1.45         21.5              9.0
2.0  -   3.0      364,766      903,016        2.48         13.2              9.5
3.0  -   4.0      243,659      848,836        3.62          8.8              8.9
4.0  -   5.0      164,837      736,174        4.47          6.0              7.7
5.0  -  10.0      353,530   2,489,673         6.87        12.8              25.5
10.0  -  20.0      134,835   1,772,833        13.15          4.9             18.6
20.0  -  30.0       23,488      541,298       23.05          0.8              5.7
30.0  -  40.0        7,115      260,635       36.63          0.3              2.7
40.0  -  50.0        2,647      121,825       46.06          0.1              1.3
50.0  &  Above       6,720      648,944       96.57          0.2              6.7
T 0 T A L        2,768,817   9,545,189         3.45        100.0            100.0



INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Area - Monthly Rainfall Data (1974)
(Rain in cms)
District       March      April      May      June      July     August      Sept.    Oct.       Dec.      Total      Normal
Average
Kota              -          -       0.06    1.58       51.21    37.87       0.72      13.55    0.74       105.71      88.56
Jhalawar          -          -        -       8.30      37.20    23.00       1.80      19.40    0.60        90.30    100.47
S. Madhopur       -          -        -       1.90     42.14    25.50        4.56      11.60      -         85.70      68.92
Banswara          -          -       3.20    2.22       33.20    18.86       4.56      23.50      -         85.54      92.24
Bundi             -          -       0.89    1.80       38.25    24.90        -        15.30    0.28        81.34      76.41
Tonk              -          -        -       5.10      52.20    10.95        -        10.70    0.90        79.85      61.36
Chittorgarh       -          -       4.10    3.81       24.44    30.91       2.50       9.18    0.10        75.04      85.21
Bhilwara          -          -       3.72    3.24       24.87    28.46       0.51       3.32      -         64.12      69.90
Bharatpur         -          -        -       4.63      17.39    15.11       3.63       2.34      -         63.10      67.15
Alwar           0.20         -       2.26    2.71       23.22    21.50        4.15      3.17    0.57        57.78      61.16
Jaipur            -          -       1.50    2.55       27.51    14.96       1.48       7.46      -         55.46      54.82
Ajmer             -          -       4.26    6.83       25.53      2.13        -        7.66    0.59        47.00      52.73
Dungarpur         -          -       6.81    2.78        8.31    19.84        4.65      2.77      -         45.16      76.17
Udaipur           -         0.15     2.82    2.01       17.26      8.42       7.94      5.60      -         42.20      62.45
Sirohi            -          -       6.70      -         6.70      5.50      5.40      11.10      -         35.40      63.84
Pali              -          -       0.80    2.40        1.50      3.50       0.56       8.41     -         17.17      49.09
Ganganager        -         1.0      1.40    2.00        5.60      0.90        -          -       -         10.90      25.33
AVERAGE FOR      0.01       0.07     2.27    3.17       25.68    17.19        2.50       9.12    0.22       60.23       67.99  m X
PROJECT AREA
STATE AVERAGE   0.01        0.06     2.48    3.03       22.87    11.98        1.77       6.20    0.40       48.80      58.64



ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
Area Under Different Crops
-1973-
Crops                         Total Area            Other Districts    Total State
in '000 ha           in '000 ha          in '000 ha
KHARIF SEASON
Foodgrains:
i) Pearl Millet              1345                 4386               5731
ii) Sorghum                   1003                  112               1115
iii) Maize                       837                   1                838
iv) Pulses                      507                1536               2043
v) Rice                        132                   1                133
vi) Other Foodgrains             95                   3                 98
TOTAL                           3919                6039               9958
Oilseed:
i) Sesamum                    295                  181                476
ii) Ground-nut                  237                   6                243
Cotton                           299                   3                302
Sugarcane                         40                  _                  40
RABI SEASON
Foodgrains:
i) Wheat                     1469                  204               1673
ii) Gram                      1145                  356               1501
iii) Barley                      545                  46                591
iv) Other Foodgrains             37                  -                  37
TOTAL                           3196                 606               3802
Oilseed:
i) Rape & Mustard              310                  64                374
ii) Linseed                      87                  -                  87
iii) Castor seed                   2                   4                  6
Other Miscellaneous Crops       1217                1381               2598
TOTAL CROPPED AREA                 9602                8284               17886



ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Basic District Data -/
Districts -/    No. of         No. of Farm      Total             Total Irrigated
Holdings      Families         Cropped Area      Area
('000)          ('000 ha)        ('000 ha)           ('000 ha)
Ganganagar         159             135             1,624                 583
Jaipur             254             274                342                235
Bhilwara           204             191               439                 143
Kota               147             111                655                139
Udaipur            304             367                539                135
Bharatpur          294             278               649                 126
Pali               154             229                737                121
Alwar              217             202                525                112
Chittorgarh        156             157               478                 105
S. Madhapur        193             231               603                 103
Bundi               63              40               262                  99
Ajmer              165              99               474                  82
Tonk               114             151               503                  74
Sirohi              65             110               214                  49
Jhalawar           104              97               360                  38
Banswara            96             132               278                  18
Dungarpur           80             126               172                  13
Total Districts                  2,930 3/          9,602               2,175
% of Rajasthan                      54%                54%                91%
Total Rajasthan                  5,400            17,886               2,378
1/  Source:  Revitalization of Agriculture Extension and Research Services in
Rajasthan State, Department of Agriculture, 1976.
2/  Figures for Daosa, Alwar-Bharatpur, Bhakra-Command Area and Kawkroli are
included in Jaipur, Alwar, Bharatpur, Ganganagar and Udaipur respectively.
3/  Total figure from Agricultural Census 1970/71.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING
A. Introduction
1.        While agricultural production in Rajasthan, India's second largest
state, has been steadily increasing, thereby allowing for annual foodgrain
surpluses in years of good rainfall, productivity levels of all major crops
are still low. There is considerble scope for development of irrigation;
however, it will take a long time with only 13% of cropped area irrigated at
present. Most farmed land is thus dependent on the monsoon and its vagaries.
In good years, almost half the 16 M ha of cropped land produces one fourth of
all agricultural production in poor years much less. This land is located
in north-west Rajasthan, with an average annual rainfall of 400 mm and
below, most of which falls in 50 days in July and August. Nevertheless,
in irrigated areas and in higher rainfall districts in south east Rajasthan,
there exists potential for considerble increases in rainfed production. To
achieve these increases, however, requires the development of appropriate
technology and an effective system for its delivery to farmers. Limited
technology for increasing production is already available, and some farmers
have adopted it. Thus institutions carrying out research and providing
agricultural extension are contributing some to production; but in order
to realize the full potential, they need to be reorganized, staff trained,
efforts intensified, facilities improved and new methods of work employed.
To these ends the project is addressed. (For details of research, see Annex
3).
2.        After two years successful experience with reorganized and intensi-
fied agricultural extension in two agricultural districts which form part
of Ganganagar, Kota and Bundi districts (which are under the IDA assisted
Rajasthan Canal and Chambal Command Area Development Projects), and using
methods proposed by Mr. D. Benor, Agricultural Extension Consultant, the
Government of Rajasthan (GOR) decided to prepare a project for possible IDA
financing and which was intended to spread the principles involved. Con-
sequently, seventeen of 26 districts are to be covered under this project,
omitting those nine low-rainfall districts which have little irrigation
potential. (See Map 12538).
3.        In anticipation of the project, the Department of Agriculture,
under leadership of the Agricultural Production Commissioner, had, in 1976,
taken steps to intensify extension in project districts and which at first



ANNEX 2
Page 2
were very successful. In recent months, however, difficulties became ap-
parent because of lack of staff, equipment and facilities. These difficul-
ties, however, came as a warning that agricultural extension could not be
intensified without proper support and reorganization and that, in Rajasthan,
there was urgent need to proceed with an extension and research project if
efforts invested so far were not to be wasted.
B. Background
4.        Rural Development Administration.  Rajasthan consists of 26 Revenue
Districts organized into 5 Regions. All district development programs are
coordinated by a Collector, the senior government representative (appointed by
GOI), and executed at field level through 232 Development Block offices, each
headed by a Block Development Officer (BDO). Local participation is ensured
through a three-tiered popularly elected local Government system--Panchayats
at village level, Panchayat Samitis at Block level, and Zilla Parishad at the
district--all of which are under control of the Collector. All development
programs, including agricultural extension, are funneled through BDO's
office. Various ministries and departments connected with these programs,
have officers posted to Blocks, under the BDO, and use the village level
worker (VLW) as a multipurpose field agent.
5.        Extension Organization.  The Department of Agriculture, headed, by
a Director of Agriculture responsible to the Agriculture Production Commis-
sioner, has overall responsibility for all agricultural programs in Rajasthan
including extension. At headquarters, the Director of Agriculture is assisted
by two Additional Directors (ADA) and seven Joint/Deputy Directors (JDA/DDA).
This staff, with the aid of specialists, administer and supervise work in seed
production, fertilizer distribution, plant protection, marketing, planning
and information, and execute special development schemes (sugarcane, cotton,
oilseeds, fruits and vegetables).
6.        Five regional offices, headed by JDA, coordinate agricultural
programs throughout the 26 districts of the State. DDA, who head district
agricultural offices, administer with the help of SMS, all agricultural pro-
grams at this level.
7.        At farmer level, however, it is the BDO who is responsible for opera-
tion of agricultural extension services. Agricultural Extension Officers
(AEO), though on the staff of the Department of Agriculture, are administered
by BDO and supervise VLW, presently employed by the Development Department,
and entrusted, among their many duties, with the task of delivering farming
technology to cultivators. Although expected to devote 80% of their time
to agricultural extension, VLW in fact spend most time on a variety of other
activites, such as distribution of inputs, administration of credit and small
savings programs, education, public health, family planning and gathering of
statistical data. Thus only about 25% of VLW's time is actually devoted to
extension^



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        To carry out these work programs, there are about ten VLW to each
Block, all supervised by one AEO. With 15-20,000 farm families in a Block,
each VLW is responsible for some 1,500- 2,000 families. Consequently, the
Department of Agriculture has found it necessary to supply additional staff
for any special development program it may implement. Thus, in each district,
it is general to find several AEO, Agricultural Assistants and Fieldman
Demonstrators (VLW rank), all employed on various schemes but not working
to a commmon end.
9.        Effectiveness of Extension.  Although extension was well conceived
within the broad community development program and had promoted some increased
agricultural production, the operational and organizational patterns that
emerged over time (para 7-8) reduced its effectiveness to low levels. Other
factors also contribute to reduced effectiveness. VLW were required to work
for at least three masters--the Department of Agriculture, the Development
Department and the Panchayat Samiti--and thus VLW and AEO have problems of
identity and work program determination. Furthermore, both carry out
regulatory functions and data collection and these all contribute to a
serious gap in credibility between extension workers and farmer.
10.       In addition, centrally dictated policies further contribute to
reduced effectiveness; physical work targets are imposed upon AEO and VLW,
which, at the local level, are often unrealistic and even conflicting.
These targets generally refer to increased fertilizer uptake, expanding
areas to be grown under various crops (which may compete with each other for
scarce land and water resources), and increasing areas to be covered by
plant protection measures. Usually, these programs are more relevant to few
farmers, often the more advanced ones; this is especially so since the number
of farm families each VLW is expected to visit is large, and there is no
systematic plan by which he can communicate with them.
II.       Conditions are such that VLW cannot be expected to carry out effec-
tive and professional field work. Because of a multiplicity of functions
and their nature, VLW, of necessity spend most time in the office or in
the village and very little in the fields. Supervision of AEO is not inten-
sive since he also spends much of his time in data gathering and reporting.
The number of SMS is small and many were appointed to their post as a result
of seniority and not on grounds of professional competence. SMS--who also
have targets to achieve-- are mainly concerned that their own programs are
executed. Thus, VLW receive little support from SMS. Furthermore, insuffi-
cient attention is given to training of extension personnel once in service,
even though their initial training and selection had been satisfactorily
carried out.
12.       The past concentration of research and extension policy makers on
the use of high cost inputs and on sophisticated technology (mainly appro-
priate to irrigated areas), has also been an important factor limiting the
effectiveness of extension programs. The goal of high production and income
was to be achieved instantly by farmers, through the adoption of an entire



ANNEX 2
Page 4
technology package, rather than progressing step by step from present produc-
tion levels. Thus given the present level of resource and knowledge con-
straints, farmers, especially those in rainfed areas, have but few relevant
messages delivered to them. Compounding these shortcomings, are factors
inherent in Rajasthan and its state of development: large areas with poor
communications, a semi-nomadic tribal population living in desert areas; a
heavy dependency on a short and erratic monsoon season, poorly developed
irrigation, and large areas of unproductive soils. In addition, the Depart-
ments of Agriculture and Development are forced to operate under budgetary
constraints; field transportation is lacking and much of rural housing for
staff below minimum standard. All these factors place a heavy strain on
staff and act as disincentives to their work. All considered, past achieve-
ments of the agricultural sector of Rajasthan are appreciable and only serve
to underscore the potential if present constraints are removed.
13.       Recent Changes in Extension.  Resulting from the success of revital-
izing extension services in the IDA assisted Rajasthan Canal and Chambal
Command Area Development Projects, GOR presented IDA in April, 1976, with a
project proposal to expand the underlying concept to 17 additional districts.
In order to utilize experience ga4ned from the new extension system and in
anticipation of the project, the Department of Agriculture, with the support
of the Agricultural Production Commissioner, decided to intensify extension
services, utilizing existing staff, in late 1975 in the 17 project districts.
With the agreement of the Development Department, and BDO, all VLW concerned
were to devote almost all their time to agricultural work. Each VLW chose
from his 1500 or more farmers, 480 farmers living adjacent to his residence.
This circle, in turn, was divided into 8 groups or chaks and a program of
regular weekly visits implemented. Six to eight Contact Farmers were selected
within each chak and were also visited regularly. VLW were supervised by
existing AEO. Three to four Blocks formed a cluster for training purposes and
all VLW and AEO of the cluster met one day every two weeks and received
specific recommendations to be given to farmers during the following two week
period. This training was given by DAO and SMS--the Assistant Agronomist and
Assistant Plant Protection Officer.
14.       There has been an immediate response to this program.  Farmers,
for the first time, were aware of VLW presence and farmers interviewed
knew of the program, had seen VLW regularly, and could repeat the infor-
mation conveyed to them. ilowever, by the end of the kharif season of 1976
a situation had arisen that. ih. atened the continuation of the program:
Almost two-thirds of farm f< lies were not receiving agricultural advice
and were demanding their share. Furthermore the ability of the Department
of Agriculture to employ VLWf in extension alone was quickly eroding and
Collectors and BDO were maling increasing demands for VLW to participate
in other programs. In add; ion transportation was lacking; the training and
supervision burden of DAO and his staff difficult to maintain; research
support was weak, and finally VLW were working much harder than before with-
out matching compensation.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       Uncertainty over continuation of the reorganized extension program
further increased with an order issued in September, 1976, placing Block AEO
directly under the control of BDO and the Development Department. It became
clear that if the program were to continue, organizational and administrative
changes would be necessary. The need for this project and its urgency are
thus apparent.
C. Revitalizing Agricultural Extension
16.       Agricultural extension would be reorganization and strengthened
under the project in 17 of the 26 administrative districts of Rajasthan. The
17 administrative districts, as a result of size and farming intensity, form
22 agricultural districts, two of which have already been reorganized (para 2).
Based on experience already gained in Rajasthan, a well-trained, highly
motivated, and technically competent organization would be developed, making
optimal use of existing and additional staff. The organization would be pro-
vided with means to reach the majority of farmers with relevant and practical
technical guidance aimed at increasing production and income. All staff
engaged on special agricultural programs and schemes would be incorporated
into the new extension organization.
17.       Only those districts of reasonable agricultural potential would
be included under the project.
18.       The project would provide for:
(a) Reorganization of existing extension and special schemes
staff into a single line of command within the Department
of Agriculture, leaving with the Development Department
those VLW needed to carry out all non-agricultural functions;
(b) Establishment of 50 sub-district offices, with sup-
porting supervisory and professional staff;
(c) Increases in field level staff to provide a ratio of
one village extension worker 1/ to 720 farming fami-
lies and I AEO to 8 VEW;
(d) Introduction of regular and systematic farm and
village visits to provide farmers with advice on
farming practices best suited to their specific
conditions;
(e) Frequent and continuous training of all staff;
(f) Strengthening of a Gram Sevak (VLW) Training Center;
1/ The term VEW rather than VLW was coined to distinguish the worker
in his new role.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(g) Facilities and equipment to support extension and
training programs;
(h) Staff and facilities for adaptive field trials and
demonstrations;
(i) Vehicles and travel allowances to ensure greater
mobility of all staff;
(j) Offices and housing for field staff; and
(k) Coordination between research and extension ser-
vices to enable effective development and transfer
of proven and adapted technology.
19.       Reorganization and Strengthening of Staff.  The extension methodology
proposed is based on systematic and regular visits by full-time village level
agricultural extension workers (VEW) to farmers' fields, combined with regular
and frequent training of VEW. Strong technical guidance and supervision is
also required. Staffing patterns would be determined by the number of farm
families that can effectively be covered by each VEW; number of VEW that can
be supervised by one AEO; and number of AEO and VEW that can be effectively
supervised and trained by a supervisor with a small technical support team.
20.       Given the conditions of population density and present communica-
tions in Rajasthan, an average ratio of one VEW to 720 active farm families
is recommended. Based on an estimated 2.9 M families operating farms in the
project area, about 4,000 VEW would be needed and, given a ratio of 1 AEO:
8 VEW, 500 AEO would be required. To ensure effective supervision, training
and technical support of VEW and AEO, 50 subdistrict offices would be estab-
lished, each headed by a Subdistrict Officer/Training Officer and staffed by
one Agronomy and one Plant Protection SMS. This team would thus be responsible
for the work and training of some 10 AEO and 80 VEW and covering an area of
2-4 Development Blocks.
21.       To be fully effective, extension staff should not be involved in
administration of input supplies and credit requirements, nor in the normal
administrative and regulatory duties of the Department of Agriculture. Whilst
the Department of Agriculture has in recent times, absolved itself of adminis-
trative responsibility for ensuring that credit and inputs reach the farmers
it would continue to assist cooperative societies in assessing these needs.
22.       The New Extension Methodology.  Under the proposed agricultural
extension system, an intensive and regular program of farm visits would be
introduced. The estimated 2.9 M project farm families would be divided into
about 4,000 units of 500-900 families each. One VEW would be allocated to
each unit which would be further divided into 8 groups or chaks of 60-110 farm
families each. Each of these chaks would be visited by VEW, on a fixed day of
the week, once every two weeks. Thus VEW would cover 4 groups in one week and



ANNEX 2
Page 7
4 groups the next. In irrigated areas and in certain seasons, there may be
need to organize weekly farm visits. In this case, each chak would be visited
either in the morning or in the afternoon. Usually, VEW would spend the full
day with the scheduled chak; during morning hours he would visit their fields
and, in the afternoon, hold an open meeting in the village at a predeter-
mined time or meet farmers in their homes. One of the four remaining working
days each fortnight would be devoted to in-service training, where VEW learn
recommended practices to be given to farmers during the following fortnight,
and where they have an opportunity to bring farmers' problems to the attention
of their trainers (para 36). During the three remaining days VEW would
supervise field trials, arrange special extension activities, make up visits
missed because of illness or holidays and complete office work. All VEW would
maintain a chart showing days for visiting each chak, as well as the time and
place of group meetings. The supervising AEO would keep such charts for
all VEW. A typical timetable for a VEW is shown below.
MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN
EXT                             EXT  EXT
1    2    3    4   TRA  VIS   H    5    6    7    8   VIS  VIS   H
1 - 8 = Farmers Groups visited
TRA   =  Training once a fortnight
EXT   =  Extra visits for checking field trials, office work,
VIS      make up visits due to holidays, illnesses, etc.
H     =  Holiday
23.       It is not possible nor effective to attempt to reach all farmers
directly through extension as many are part-time, others not accustomed to
contacts with outside agencies, and yet others are best influenced by neighbors
or relatives. Under the guidance of their supervisors and in consultation
with Panchayats and farmers themselves, VEW would select 10 contact farmers
from each chak. Contact farmers would be from all levels of village society
and would be selected for their willingness to collaborate with extension in
following recommendations and their ability to influence others. Contact farm-
ers would be changed, generally between seasons, if shown to be ineffective or
if they so desire. VEW, during field visits, would make special efforts to
reach all contact farmers who would, in turn, share responsbility for or-
ganizing and attending afternoon meetings and other village extension activi-
ties. Fields of contact farmers would be used as demonstration plots and for
carrying out field trials.
24.       Extension efforts would be concentrated on selected farmers and on
ti  most important crops, focussing mainly on those practices which bring
be.L results whilst making optimum use of available resources.  Initially,
concentration would be on improving agricultural practices and would include



ANNEX 2
Page 8
better land and seed bed preparation, proper spacing of plants, improved
nursery maintenance, use of good seed, seed treatments, and timely operations
such as weeding. Thus stress would be on improved management practices rather
than on increased use of purchased inputs. In adopting better practices
farmers face little risk, but would be required to work harder. Since most
farmers have surplus labor but little cash this fits their financial status
well.
25.       Cultural practices requiring change would first be recommended for
adoption on part of the land only, as this would allow results to be compared
with existing practices. As farmers' yields and incomes increase so will
confidence in VEW grow and make farmers more receptive to further advice.
Simple improvements in cultural practices can be introduced quickly and
without requiring an elaborate, time-consuming screening and trial process.
Thus the extension service can make an initial impact which will ensure its
continued success. Farmers, once convinced of increased production and
income by adoption of improved practices would be more willing to adopt more
expensive (e.g. using fertilizer or insecticides) and more sophisticated (e.g.
by introduction of new varieties and crops) recommendations. Even then,
economic considerations would continue to be emphasized.
26.       Organizational and Technical Support.  AEO would supervise about 8
VEW and, at least once every two weeks, participate in VEW programs of farm
visits and this would enable AEO to reach every farmers' group at least twice
in the season. AEO would check that VEW visits and meetings were being car-
ried out on schedule and would assist VEW in solving technical problems.
AEO would also assist VEW in carrying out demonstrations and simple trials.
This closer relationship between AEO and VEW would relieve VEW of the need for
formal reporting, but would be expected, however, to keep a diary which would
be scrutinized and signed by any visiting supervisory officer.
27.       Such a method would allow DAO and other supervisors, through access
to VEW and AEO visit schedules, to quickly and easily find out whether visits
are being made as planned; not only by making surprise visits to areas in which
VEW and AEO are scheduled on particular days, but also by questioning farmers
about visit days, the names of VEW and AEO, and messages learned. Experience
elsewhere in India has shown that, once farmers become aware of the visit
schedule, they themselves become monitors by complaining if visits are not
maintained.
28.       To ensure a continuous flow of proven and suitably adapted farm
recommendations, and that adequate training of VEW and AEO is undertaken,
it would be necessary to strengthen technical support. The establishment
of subdistrict offices (para 15) would provide such support. One Training
Officer and two SMS (one specializing in field crops and the other in plant
protection) would guide and train about 80 VEW and would spend much of their
time on field visits with AEO and VEW, helping them solve technical problems
and conducting and supervising field trials. Each SMS would spend one to two
days a week in training. Even so with only two SMS time spent with each VEW



ANNEX 2
Page 9
would be small. In addition, SMS would develop local farming recommendations
and pass them on to AEO and VEW at training sessions (para 32-39) and would
form the vital link between research and extension at field level. TO would
be responsible for training programs at sub-district level, coordinating
participation of SDEO, SMS and research workers in training activites. In
the 15 bigger subdistricts, an assistant would be provided to SDEO (ASDEO)
to ensure full supervsion of field staff.
29.       As it is not possible to provide more than minimum technical sup-
port at subdistrict level, additional support would be provided at each of
20 project district headquarters through specialists in such fields as water
management, farm implements, entomology, plant pathology and horticulture.
An information and training specialist would also be provided. On average,
about two specialists would be provided for each district. Farm management
support, at district level would be provided by an agricultural economist
from the regional evaluation unit (Annex 7), and an agronomist would be
responsible for carrying out adaptive trials on an existing government-owned
seed-farm, and farmers' fields.
30.       Due to additional responsibility as a result of the project, the
post of DAO in nine districts would be upgraded to the rank of DDA. In order
that DDA would be able to devote maximum attention to field supervision and
training, an administrative and inputs assistant would be provided and would
handle all administrative and inputs work of the Department of Agriculture at
this level. Staff at departmental headquarters would also be strengthened.
One Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA) would be appointed under the
Director of Agriculture, to take full charge of all extension operations.
He would be assisted by three JDA, one to handle extension and training, one
to deal with matters of technology and research and one for administration.
31.       Staffing, Salaries and Incentive.  Mtuch of the professional staff
required under the project is presently working in the Department of Agricul-
ture, the Development Department or the University of Udaipur. Numbers of
existing professional staff, total project requirements and additional staff
to be recruited are summarized below (for detailed staff requirements see
Annex 4 Table 2):



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Project Staff Requirements
Post                 Total No. Required        No. Existing       Additional No.
Required
VEW                         4000                    1800 /a          2200
AEO (Block)                  500                     225              275
AEO (Dist, & SD)              40                      40                -
SMS & TO (SD)                150                      40              110
Specialists (Dist.)           60                      53                7
District (Admin. and
Inputs Officer)             20                      17                3
DDA (Dist.)                   11                       4                /b
JDA (Hdqtrs.)                  3                       -                3
ADA (Hdqtrs.)                  1                                        1
/a   It is assumed that of 2200 VLW of the Development Department now
employed in extension in project districts, some 1500 would be
transferred to the Department of Agriculture. About 300 fieldmen,
in addition, are in position, making available some 1800 VEW for
the project.
/b   Posts to be upgraded from the present DAO level.
Assurances have been given that suitably qualified persons can be found for
all positions. However, there is need for quick selection and recruitment
procedures coupled with immediate training, especially for SMS and other
specialists who would have a key role in training.
32.       Extension work under the project, would be carried out under dif-
ficult conditions and experience in similar projects has shown that all
staff work much harder than in the past. Provision of some housing, motor-
cycles and bicycles would provide some incentives to field staff. To open an
avenue for advancement of VEW and AEO, funds would be provided to enable a
limited number who have achieved outstanding performance in the field, to study
at the Agricultural University in order to obtain either degree level or
graduate training and thus qualify for promotion. Individuals given these
scholarships would be bonded to the Directorate of Agriculture for a period of
four years after completion of training. As has been done in the past, some
exceptionally capable VEW would be directly promoted to AEO, and similarly some
AEO promoted to the position of SMS, put after appropriate training.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
33.       Total project staff requirements would be about 2,200 VEW, 275 AEO
and 120 higher level professional staff to be recruited over a three year
period. Of this additional staff, about one third would be needed during the
first project year. Consequently, a special training program would have to be
undertaken with all project districts participating in order to quickly and
effectively induct large numbers of new staff over a short period of time
(para 45). Special efforts would be made to recruit staff with some previous
agricultural experience.
34.       In-Service Training.  The proposed intensive approach is based on
VEW visiting each of 8 farmers' groups one day in every two weeks. VEW also
receive one day of training every two weeks. Furthermore the entire system,
including that of adaptive research, is geared to support this rigid schedule
and consequently VEW must receive timely and relevant messages for transmis-
sion to farmers. Moreover the system must be flexible and provide answers to
problems as they arise. It is mainly through in-service training that these
goals would be achieved.
35.       VEW Training.  The basic unit for training would be the Block, with
its 20-30 VEW and 3-4 AEO. It would meet on a regular day, say on a Friday or
Saturday, once in two weeks, and receive instruction from subdistrict staff
(SDEO, ASDEO, TO and SMS), supported, if needed, by district staff and research
workers. At least every other training session would be held where there
are means for practical application of lessons taught--on a seed farm, an
experimental station, or at a training center. With 3-4 Blocks to a sub-
district, the entire subdistrict team would devote 6-8 days in each four-
week period to training of VEW and AEO.
36.       Training would be practically oriented and cover those farm opera-
tions most likely to arise over the next two-week period. Time would be
allowed for VEW to actually carry out these operations. Subjects and prac-
tices taught would be only those of immediate importance to farmers. At
training sessions VEW would have a chance to raise and discuss problems which
they had encountered during the preceeding weeks. BDO, representatives of
cooperatives, banks, and agro-service centers, irrigation engineers and all
other staff participating in agricultural activities would be invited to attend
these sessions to ensure coordination of related activities. Experience
elsewhere has shown that these fortnightly training sessions play an important
role in coordinating inter-departmental activities.
37.       Once every three months, a two-day training session would be
held for all VEW at subdistrict level at which, besides reviewing overall
project progress, they would have the opportunity of meeting with research
and district specialists of various disciplines. Such meetings are espec-
ially important in building morale, and would place emphasis on extension
methodology and organization.
38.       Prior to each of the two main agriculture seasons (rabi and kharif),
VEW would receive a 4-5 day course covering the main crops grown and practices



ANNEX 2
Page 12
recommended for them. Also, one special topic would be included, such as water
management, new methods in plant protection, or field trial methodology.
These courses would be held at district level for about 230 VEW and AEO and
would require the use of facilities at training centers, colleges or schools
located within the district. This training would be oriented toward the
general rather than the particular, giving the background needed for a better
understanding and broader overview of the entire cropping season to come.
Representatives from Headquarters of the Department of Agriculture and from
project directorate would attend, as would regional JDA and research workers
from regional stations. These courses would initiate the extension campaign
for the coming season.
39.       AEO and Senior Staff Training.  AEO would attend all training
sessions of VEW at Block, Subdistrict and District level (para 35-38). At
fortnightly sessions held at Block level, AEO would be expected to play an
active role, helping SMS and TO with training and in time and as they gain
experience expected to train VEW themselves once every four weeks, thus taking
some of the load off subdistrict staff.
40.       Once every four weeks District DDA and DAOs would hold a 2-day
meeting for staff, including SMS, TO and all AEO from the district. Trainers
at these sessions would be research workers from regional stations, district
specialists and occassionally subdistrict SMS themselves. These meetings
would be held, like VEW training meetings, on pre-determined days, usually
in the middle of the week. They would, in fact, become organizational and
professional seminars for district staff, in which progress would be reviewed
and the coming four-week program planned and prepared. The first day would be
devoted mainly to technical subjects--lectures, discussions, review of research
and field trials, determining recommendations and solving problems which have
arisen. During at least part of the second day, staff from each subdistrict
would work separately, planning in detail the coming month's program of work.
These working meetings would form the vital link between research and exten-
sion, and between field and headquarters. As at Block meetings, all those
from agencies involved in agricultural development at district level would
be encouraged to participate.
41.       AEO and subdistrict staff would participate with VEW in sub-
district tri-monthly sessions. Since the subdistrict is the basic extension
unit, these meetings have special importance for ensuring continuity of
extension methodology and organization; senior staff should therefore util-
ize these occasions for improving overall performance.
42.       Each agro-climatic zone (on a regional basis) would hold, prior to
each crop season, a 3-4 day seminar for staff of the rank of SMS, TO and
above. These seminars would be so timed that they would enable a summary of
research results to be discussed, and at the same time finalize crop recom-
mendations and adaptive research plans. These seminars would be held at
regional research stations, and would thus serve as a working session of the
Regional Research Coordination Committee. Members of the State Level Research



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Coordination Committee would join the seminar on its last day to review and
sanction plans. District courses for VEW and AEO (para 38) would be planned
and carried out following these intensive seminars.
43.       Special training opportunities would be provided for staff at all
levels, in addition to the regular on-going activities. Short courses,
ranging from one to several weeks duration, would be organized at the Uni-
versity of Udaipur and at research stations and substations and would cover
a variety of subjects and crops. An extension training specialist would be
appointed at the university to organize and coordinate courses. Courses
for VEW would also be held at one gram sevak training center, to be strength-
ened under the project. The Project Directorate would plan overall train-
ing needs; regional JDA and district officers would propose specific courses
and would recommend candidates for participation. Examples of such courses
would be: "Economic Use of Fertilizers," for VEW, (duration 2 weeks); "Making
Local Farm Implements More Effective," for subdistrict agronomists, (duration
one week); "Paddy Nurseries," for AEO, (duration 10 days); "Insect Control
in Cotton," for plant protection SMS from cotton growing subdistricts, (dura-
tion 4 weeks). Some specialized courses would be organized to better advantage
on an all-India basis, utilizing the best institutions in the country. It is
expected that the Commissioner for Extension in GOI would plan and coordinate
such training.
44.       The proposed training program is presented below in summary form.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Proposed In-Service Training Program
Trainees                                          Training Sessions
VEW:                                    - twice a year, a pre-season course at
district for 4-5 days.
- once in 3 months at subdistrict for
2 days.
- once every 2 weeks at block level for
1 day.
AEO:                                    - twice a year, a pre-season course with
VEW as above.
- once in 3 months at subdistrict with
VEW as above.
- once in 4 weeks at district for 2 days
to prepare for coming month.
- special short courses.
Subdistrict and District Staff:        - twice a year a pre-season seminar at
region for 3-4 days.
- once in 4 weeks with AEO as above.
- special short courses.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Thus the following training activities would be scheduled:
Where                                        Ave. No
Held and                                         Part.
Activity   Number  Frequency  Duration  Participants  Activity   Trainers
Pre-      Region    2 x year   3-4 days                    50-60    JDA,
season       5                             SMS, TO                   Researchers
Specialists
Pre-
season    District  2 x year   4-5 days  VEW, AEO           250      DDA, SMS,
20                                                     Specialists
Researchers
Tri-
monthly     Sub-      4 x year    2 days  VEW, AEO            90     SDEO, SMS
district
50
Monthly   District   I x 4 wks.  2 days  AEO, SMS,            40     DDA, Specs.
Prepara-     20                            TO                        Researchers
tion
Ongoing   Block       1 x 2 wks.  I day   VEW              20-30    SMS, AEO
161
Special   State          as        6-30    AEO &           20-30    University
Courses   as needed   needed       days    above                     Staff
Special   All India      as        1/2-3   SMS &             as      Institution
Training  as needed   needed       months  above           needed   Staff
45.       Preservice and Induction Training. Although the extension system
relies heavily on an intensive and continued program of inservice training,
the preparation a new VEW receives before entering service is important. Thus,
to enable the rapid absorption of large numbers of new staff, in addition to
the development of a permanent training institute for VEW, a short term
training program is proposed.
46.       VEW Training Institute.  There were four Gramsevak Training Centers
(for VLW) operating under the community development program. All have been
shut down. The project proposes to provide buildings, equipment and accommo-
dation at two locations. Candidates for VEW are available from among higher
secondary (12th grade) students trained in agriculture, who have much of the
theoretical background needed but who require practical training. Such VEW
would receive a one year pre-service course with one-half year at the training



ANNEX 2
Page 16
center and one-half year in practical training within a district. Thus,
with a capacity of 160, the training center would have a throughput of 320
students a year. This throughput would be sufficient to meet project
requirements of replacement staff.
47.       Induction Training for New Recruits.  Under the Project, some 2200
VEW would be recruited over a two-year period. Several hundred would be
recruited from among gramsevak graduates but presently working in other
government departments. The rest would be selected from higher secondary
graduates having a farming background. It is proposed that all new recruits
would receive a one month intensive training course organized by regional
offices, in which recruits would learn about main crops and practices and
principles of extension work. Following this course, recruits would be
allocated to districts and hence to subdistricts for tutoring and guidance,
working with experienced VEW but under AEO. They would participate in regular
fortnightly training sessions, and in addition would gather once a month for
a two day training and evaluation session to be held by district staff.
After one cropping season, most recruits would be capable of undertaking,
with continuing close guidance, extension work on their own. About 600
recruits would be trained every half year, which means that each district
would train about 30 and each subdistrict some 10-15. This task should not
prove difficult as district and subdistrict staff are sufficiently motivated
to ensure adequate training of recruits with whom they will have to continue
working in the future. Recruits, on their part, would have to face the
challenge of succeeding in both classroom and field.
48.       To fill 500 AEO posts needed for the project, 275 new AEO would be
recruited over a two year period. Considerable numbers of agricultural col-
lege graduates are available either from within Rajasthan or from neighboring
states. In addition the two colleges at Udaipur and Jodphur, have the capa-
city to train an increasing number of students which may be needed by the
project. Induction training of AEO would be similar to that of VEW. With a
total of 275 AEO needed, every six months a group of 70-80 would have to be
trained; only 3-5 to a district. District Training Officers would have major
responsibility for organizing the training of both VEW and AEO. The project
directorate at headquarters would closely supervise all stages of training.
49.       Initial Training of Specialists and Supervisory Staff.  To set
strict guidelines for training of higher level professional staff would not be
possible. Although specialized short courses of 2-3 weeks duration would be
provided by the University for SMS and specialists before the start of fort-
nightly field visits and training programs, individual needs would have to be
assessed and personal training programs planned accordingly and timed to suit
individual work-loads. Research institutions in Rajasthan and in other states
would be utilized for this training and would cater for both individuals and
small groups. For supervisory staff at subdistrict level and above, a state-
wide one-week seminar would be held prior to implementing the project and in
which, the entire project leadership would gain an understanding of the
project and would develop a plan of work.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
50.       Orientation for the Entire Project Staff.  Following the training
of supervisors, an orientation seminar for all staff would be held at district
level where a clear understanding of the project and its various components
would be given to staff.
51.       Equipment and Facilities Supporting Extension and Training.  Equip-
ment, staff, and operating costs would be provided to allow for preparation of
publications, audio-visual aids, photographic work and demonstration materials
needed for effective extension work with farmers. Each district would have
duplicating and photographic processing facilities. At each sub-division
there would be a cyclo-styling machine, slide projector, and other training
aids. Materials and equipment needed by AEO and VEW in their ongoing training
and extension work, such as diaries, flip charts and blackboards, would also
be provided.
52.       Since heavy emphasis is placed on the continued training of all
field staff, funds would be provided for incremental operating costs involved,
and would cover the preparation of materials and aids for training sessions,
renting of facilites, honoraria for outside lecturers, and transporting ex-
tension workers on field visits.
53.       A fully equipped cinema van with projector, generator, microphone,
screen, public address unit, taperecorder, plant protection equipment, etc.
would be provided for each of the 20 districts. This van would be utilized
for film and slide shows, and demonstrations at group meetings in villages,
and for special extension campaigns (particularly plant protection). The
information and training specialist at the district would be responsible for
the effective utilization of the van, as well as for preparing publications
and other training material.
54.       Demonstrations and Field Trials.  Field demonstrations in India's
extension work have, in the past, been widely used but with varying results.
Special emphasis, therefore, would not be put on a program of field demonstra-
tions; but rather on utilizing the demonstration effect of fields of contact
farmers, where improved practices would be introduced, new varieties planted,
and cropping patterns changed. Simple field trials, carried out on both seed
farms and farmers' fields, would also serve as demonstrations. This would
form part of the ongoing work of VEW, AEO, and SMS. Thus all demonstrations,
"minikit" trials and other field trials presently carried out under various
schemes (and which often cause confusion to extension field staff and culti-
vators alike) would be integrated within the project into one coordinated
program.
55.       A broad range of simple experiments and field trials would be
carried out on each of 12 govenment farms located in project districts.
Together with trials on farmers' field, they would form an integrated system
for the final proving of recommendations coming from regional research stations
and sub-stations. A research agronomist would be seconded to five adaptive
trial centers, in order to guide and supervise district programs and would be
administratively responsible to district DDA. The Research Agronomist would



ANNEX 2
Page 18
also work closely with SMS and other technical field staff and would form the
all important link between research and extension. Recommendations would be
tried out on a large enough scale to ensure their validity under local con-
ditions and to allow extension workers to receive practical training in
recommendations they will make to farmers. Research staff, from central and
regional research programs, would thus be in closer contact with farmer prob-
lems and with field level extension staff. Help in analyzing and compiling
results from trials would come from research stations and from district
evaluation units.
56.       Transportation and Mobility.  A key feature of the extension
methodology is a requirement that all staff spend most of their time in the
field. Each week VEW would spend four days on pre-planned visits and a fifth
day on field trials, demonstrations and special duties. AEO would spend four
days a week with VEW. SMS would be expected to devote two days to field visit
and two days to field trials and research visits each week. District officers
would spend at least three days a week in the field. Transportation is thus
crucial to the success of the program, and is presently a serious constraint.
The project would provide one car and one 4-wheel drive vehicle at head-
quarters; one car at each regional office; one 4-wheel drive vehicle and one
cinema van (all diesel) for each district; two diesel 4-wheel drive vehicles of
17 subdistricts having two or more blocks and one at each of 33 subdistricts
having less than four blocks; a motorcycle for each AEO; and a bicycle for
VEW. In addition, the VEW training center would be provided with a 4-wheel
drive vehicle and a bus. Total number of vehicles required for extension and
training is as follows:
6 cars
4-wheel drive diesel vehicles
20 cinema vans (diesel)
500 motorcycles
3,000 bicycles
Since similar vehicles are in operation in Rajasthan and within the Depart-
ment of Agriculture their operation and maintenance should not pose a
problem.
57.       Incremental vehicle operating and maintenance costs for the project
period (5 years) are provided for. Basic travel allowance for all incremental
staff is also provided and included in salary calculations. However, since
motorcycles and bicycles would be bought by AEO and VEW on credit, a special
travel allowance (based on mileage) of sufficient magnitude to provide an
incentive to ensure purchase and utilization of vehicles must be provided.
This is particularly important in the case of motorcycles. GOR is reviewing
its travel allowance policies and this matter was finalized at negotiations.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
58.       Offices and Staff Housing.  Efficient management and administration
of the extension service requires provision of some office facilities in
districts as well as at headquarters. Existing division and district offices,
many of which are rented, are considered adequate, though some additional
equipment and incremental operating costs would be provided (as the functions
of district offices would increase considerably). Three new district offices
would be established, due to reorganization of 17 revenue districts into 20
project districts. Fifty new subdistricts would be established; an office cum-
training hall would be constructed in each. The project would provide
each of these offices with equipment, furniture, and support staff, and
would ensure operating costs over the project period.
59.       It is essential that field staff live where they carry out their
work. In Rajasthan, as in most of rural India, present housing conditions
and availability are poor. There are great difficulties, due to lack of
housing, in posting and keeping quality staff in these rural areas. The
project therefore provides minimum housing needs--for less than 25% of staff;
1,250 houses for VEW of very simple, village style construction; 150 houses
cum-offices for AEO; and 50 houses for subdistrict staff. Deductions would
be made from salaries in lieu of rent.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
I. BACKGROUND
A. Agricultural Research Institutions
1.        Three major institutions conduct agricultural research in Rajasthan;
the University of Udaipur, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)
and the Department of Agriculture. Over the last nine years, several research
stations of the Department of Agriculture were transferred to the University
of Udaipur culminating in the final transfer in April 1976 of all remaining
stations, including the largest at Durgapura. Only the stations in the
Command Area Development Department, which include the irrigation schemes
of the Rajasthan Canal and Chambal areas, remain for the present with the
Department of Agriculture. In the Rajasthan Canal area a central laboratory
is located at Bikaner with two field research stations at Hanumangarh and
Barer. The station at Hanumangarh, which is well run and attuned to the
needs of the cultivators of the region, will soon have increased staff by
the transfer of 4 professionals from the Central Laboratory at Bikaner for
a total professional complement of 14. The Chambal area has two research
stations at Naute and Sultanpur.
University of Udaipur
2.        The University of Udaipur, as of this year, has been given full
responsibility for conducting basic, and applied agricultural research for
the State. Adaptive research remains the responsibility of the Department
of Agriculture. Until recently, the primary function of the University had
been teaching with research supporting higher degree studies particularly at
the two colleges of Udaipur and Jobner. .Udaipur has about 250 undergraduates
and Jobner 400. Graduates number about 70-80 per year. There are also 120
Masters and 60 Ph.D degree candidates. Total faculty for both colleges is
about 200.
3.        Research at the University of Udaipur is under a Director of
Research who reports to the Vice Chancellor. He is responsible for
coordination and evaluation of research at the University and for adminis-
trative direction of research stations and distribution of available funds.
He is supported by an Assistant Director of Research, at the level of Assistant
Professor, who looks after office matters and correspondence. Formulation of



ANNEX 3
Page 2
research projects occurs in a University Committee involving Heads of Depart-
ments of each discipline and which meets biannually. Similarly, at each sta-
tion the officer in charge coordinates activities, and programs are discussed
on a discipline basis twice a year. Plans of various stations are then
reviewed biannually, prior to kharif and rabi seasons, by a State Research
Coordination Committee composed of the Directors of Research, Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Extension Education and the Deans of Agriculture, Engi-
neering and Home Science and two progressive farmers. Collaboration between
various disciplines does occur, especially in crop breeding schemes, but an
increased multidisciplinary approach is needed to solve problems of crops
important to Rajasthan.
4.        University of Udaipur (UOU) Research Stations.  At present, UOU, has
13 research stations and farms where professional staff are located. There
are also 6 farms where no professional staff are present but which could be
developed into research stations. The two major stations are at Durgapura
(103 professionals) and Udaipur (79 professionals). Stations at Jobner (21
professionals) and Udaipur are involved in teaching responsibilities. The
other stations devote themselves full time to research. Other regional
stations are located at Kota (37 professionals), Sumerpur (26 professionals)
and Vallabhnagar (28 professionals). The remaining 5 stations have only 18
professionals between them.
5.        Fully 70 percent of present staff are financed by ICAR and only
20% are permanent staff of the University. Although ICAR financing has been
responsible for the major research impact in the State, the various schemes,
47 of them, are national in scope and not particularly well oriented toward
State or regional needs. There is also the possibility of loss of continuity
of programs and staff if ICAR schemes are terminated and State financing is
lacking.
6.        Existing research stations and crop programs are:
Research Station                    Research Programs
Durgapura                           Pearl millet, cluster bean,
barley, wheat, pulses, groundnut
vegetables, agronomic practices,
and production of breeder seed of
above crops.
Udaipur                             Maize, oilseeds, horticultural
crops, wheat, barley and sugarcane.
Jobner                              Soil salinity, water management,
spices, white grub control.
Kota                                Rice, sugarcane, sunflower wheat,
opium, coriander, sorghum.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Research Station                    Research Programs
Banswara                            Cotton, wheat, gram ,rice,
agronomic trials, pigeon peas.
Vallabhnagar                        Horticulture
Sriganganager                       Cotton, sugarbeet, wheat, pearl
millet, cluster bean, mungbean,
gram, mustard, fruit, barley.
Sumerpur                            Sesamum, pearl millet, sorghum,
kharif pulses, cotton, wheat,
barley, gram.
Substations
Tabyi                               Maize, sorghum, pearl millet.
Navgoan                             Pulses, oilseeds.
Ehlera                              Dry farming research
Diggi                               Dry farming research
7.        Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).  ICAR has three
research units in Rajasthan; the Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI)
at Jodhpur, the Training, Demonstration and Research Center for Soil Conserva-
tion at Kota and the Sheep and Wool Research Institute at Avikanagar. CAZRI
conducts research for the arid regions of India and especially western
Rajasthan. It has a professional staff of 120 with M.Sc. or Ph.D degrees
and a support staff of 630. Of this total, one third are involved in a basic
resources survey to assess how resources of arid regions are used. CAZRI has
a 700 acre farm, 12 outlying stations and two major research farms at Pali and
Bikaner of 1000 acres and 700 acres respectively. It has an annual operating
budget of 7 million rupees. It has excellent buildings, facilities, laborato-
ries and farm equipment to conduct research in crops, pastures and plants
suitable for arid regions and for sand stabilization. CAZRI supplies 8-9 tons
of grass seed for pasture improvement to the Departments of Forestry and
Animal Husbandry and the Sheep and IJool Institute. The chief scientists of
CAZRI meet with DDA and DAO of Pali and state agronomists four times a year
to review arid zone practices.
B. Research Accomplishments at the University of Udaipur
8.        Wheat.  Four high yielding varieties of wheat have been produced
which are being used throughout the State. The first dwarf durum wheat in
India was bred in Rajasthan.  All together 10 varieties of wheat have been
released, 8 or 9 of which have been adopted by farmers at one time or another.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        Barley. Several varieties of barley have been produced including
dwarf material which was produced from irradiated seed. Last year, three
new varieties were released for use under saline and rainfed conditions and
present efforts are directed to finding rust resistant varieties.
10.       Pulses.  Two varieties of gram and one variety of mungbean, black
gram and green gram have been released.
11.       Millets. In the 1950's two pearl millets were released; one for
low rainfall areas and another for high rainfall conditions. Three hybrids
have been developed in 1972 of which one exhibits good performance against
attack by downy mildew.
12.       Groundnuts and Cluster Beans.  Three varieties of groundnut, two
spreading type and one semi-spreading type have been released. Two varieties
of cluster bean have also been released.
13.       Cotton.  A high yielding cotton variety has been produced with a
wide growth range and yields in excess of 2 tons/ha.
14.       Agronomic Practices.  Recommendations for appropriate cultural
practices including pest and disease control have been developed for different
agroclimatic regions of the State and for the most important commodities.
15.       Constraints.  Despite accomplishments outlined above, more effective
applied and adaptive research is needed to overcome constraints to increased
crop production in Rajasthan. This will become increasingly evident as
the improved extension system exhausts existing technology and cultivators
demand further improvements in crops production.
16.       Major constraints preventing UOU from improving its research capa-
bility have been mainly a shortage of operating funds for materials, supplies,
equipment, and sufficient staff to take care of needs of the main agroclimatic
regions of the State. This has resulted in a lack of research to evaluate and
adapt agronomic practices under different agroclimatic regions of the State, as
those funds available have been directed to the staffing and running of the main
research stations.
17.       Emphasis, in the past, has been given to research on irrigated rabi
crops and there is now a need to strengthen research on kharif rainfed crops.
There is also a need to strengthen research on soil and water management
practices, dry-land farming techniques, oilseeds and pulses, multiple crop-
ping, and improved farm implements.
18.       Furthermore, there is inadequate coordination of research between
the various disciplines in the Agricultural Faculty and a real concern that
the transfer of research from the Department of Agriculture to the University
will create problems of cooperation between extension and research.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
II. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
A. General Description
19.       Program Goals.  The project would strengthen applied and adaptive
agricultural research to provide practical answers to farmers' problems so
that they would increase productivity. It would focus on principal rainfed
crops grown and concentrate on developing improved cultivation practices with
high yielding varieties under different agroclimatic conditions found through-
out the state. To carry out these objectives, GOR would firstly continue to
support basic and applied research at UOU and the project would provide
Rs 27.6 M (US$3.06 M) over the project period, for staff, equipment and
operating costs of the research program and thus ensure that UOU would con-
tinue to furnish the Department of Agriculture with recommended production
packages. GOR is currently seeking financial assistance from GOI to generally
upgrade and develop facilities and programs at all research stations of UOU.
In the event that this assistance is not forthcoming, and in order not to
prejudice adaptive research programs, assurances were obtained that GOR would,
in consultation with ICAR, review by June 30, 1979, UOU research facilities
and programs. In the event that these proved to be inadequate, GOR would take
steps to remedy the situation.
20.       Secondly, to achieve the objectives for adaptive research, a net-
work of five main centers and seven sub-centers would be established. These
centers would cover the main agroclimatic regions of the project area. Main
Adaptive Trial Centers (ATC) would be located on DOA farms in the following
districts.
District                           Site
1.   Alwar                         Naogaon Farm
2.   Ajmer                          Tahiji Farm
3.   Kota                           Korkhana Bagh
4.  Jhalawar                        Khanpur Farm
5.  Bhilwara                        Arjia Farm
Sub-centers would be located on seed farms belonging to the State Agricultural
Inputs Corporation at:
District                           Site
1.  Bharatpur                      Sewar
2.  Pali                           Hemawas
3.  Sirohi                         Ora
4.  Kota                           Ummedganj, Kawai
5.  Sawaimadhopur                  Malarnadoongar
6.  Jaipur                          Padasoli
7.  Ganganagar                      Suratgarh



ANNEX 3
Page 6
In addition, trials would be carried out on farmers' fields so as to permit
large scale evaluation of research findings.
21.        The commodity-oriented research program of UOU would continue to
identify and select improved varieties of the most important crops obtained
from national and international research institutions, with a package of
economically significant practices directed to substantially increasing crop
production and at the same time minimize farmers' risk. Selected varieties
and production packages would be forwarded to ATC for further testing in each
of the agroecological zones, concentrating initially on food crops. At ATC,
the most promising practices and varieties would be identified and recommen-
dations prepared for the extension service. ATC staff would work closely with
district extension teams, in particular SMS, and thus much of the work at ATC
would be done in response to needs of the local extension staff and farmers.
ATC would, therefore, be the focal point for testing and introduction of new
practices and would also be used for training of extension staff.
22.        In addition, the program would ensure coordination between extension
and research services at local, regional and state levels, though the establish-
ment of appropriate committees. These arrangements would also ensure timely
provisions of seed, fertilizers and other inputs.
B. Program Components
23.        In order to achieve the goals outlined above, the program would pro-
vide for:
(a) Adaptive Trial Centers
(i) Farm development, through improvement of land
and facilities for irrigation;
(ii) Construction of laboratory, office buildings,
staff quarters and dormitory/training facili-
ties at each ATC;
(iii) Equipment, tractors, implements and oxen; and
(iv) Professional and support staff.
(b) Adaptive Trial Sub-Centers
(i) Professional support staff; and
(ii) materials and supplies.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(c) Basic and Applied Research
(i) Finance to the extent of Rs 27.6 M (US$3.06 M) over the
project period for staff, equipment and operating costs
of the research program at UOU research stations.
Details are at Annex 4, Table 4.
C. Detailed Features
Basic and Applied Research Stations
24.       The regional and substations of UOU involved in project and their
agricultural regions are as follows:
Zone                  Station                     Agroclimatic Conditions
I                   Regional - Durgapura          Sandy to Sandy loam Soils,
Sub-station - Navgaon         375-500 mm rainfall
2                   Sub-station - Diggi           Shallow. soils, poor drainage,
loam to heavy loam, 375-500 mm
rainfall
3                   Regional - Kota               Black cotton soils, temperature
Sub-station - Eklera          extremes (frosts), 750-1000 mm
rainfall
4                   Regional - Udaipur            Medium to heavy loam soils,
Sub-station - Aryia           poor fertile soils, 500-755 mm
Sub-station - Chittorgarh   rainfall, saline soils
5                   Regional - Banswara           Mledium to heavy black soils
moderate temp., no-frost,
750-1000 mm rainfall.
6                   Regional - Sumerpur           Sandy loam to loam soils
saline, extreme temperatures,
375-500 mm rainfall.
7                   Regional - Sriganganagar    Sandy to silt soils,
irrigated areas, 200-250 mm
rainfall



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Major research areas of regional stations would be:
(a) Cultivation Practices. Techniques which improve crop produc-
tivity would be emphasized. These would include land prep-
aration, time of planting in relation to rainfall patterns,
spacing, alternative farming and cropping patterns, soil amend-
ments (organic and inorganic) and pesticide use. Improved
water management practices and more effective utilization of
dryland farming would also be studied. The importance of
research into agronomic practices is the basis for appoint-
ment of an Agronomist to head up nine of the eleven stations.
(b) Varietal Improvement. Plant breeding, screening, identifica-
tion and selection of varieties useful to farmers would be
continued and strengthened and carried out in each of the
different agroclimatic regions. Factors such as seasons,
water levels, soil types and resistance to various pests
and diseases would also be considered.
(c) Pest and Disease Control. Studies would be accelerated on
pests and diseases which seriously affect crop production
in Rajasthan. The epidemiology, prophylactic measures of
control, chemical control where necessary and screening for
resistant and tolerant varieties would be undertaken in
joint programs by the entomologists, plant pathologists
and plant breeders located at each of the stations.
(d)  Farm Implements.  Testing, modification and development of
improved farm implements which can be beneficially used by
cultivators would be an important component of regional
research programs.  Engineers would also be involved in an
improved land utilization scheme involving drainage and
irrigation.
(e) Farm Management Studies. Farm management specialists and
statisticians located at each of the regional stations would
evaluate various cultivation practices, alternative farm-
ing systems and cropping patterns developed in the course
of studies outlined above. Their economic impact would be
assessed further in large scale adaptive trials carried out
on seed farm or farmers' fields.
D. Organization and Management
25.       The research programs would be the responsibility of the Director
of Research, UOU. At the Directorate of Agriculture, a Joint Director,
responsible to the Director of Agriculture, would coordinate and direct the
adaptive research program and liaise directly with Director of Research, UOU.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Coordination
26.       Technical programs for each of the stations and ATC would be formu-
lated in consultation with participating scientists, University administrators
and Department of Agriculture personnel, through coordination committees to
be established under the project. This coordination with the extension pro-
gram would be accomplished at three levels. At the ministerial level, broad
policy would be determined and related to key crops and farming practices
considered of highest priority. At State level, a Research Coordination Com-
mittee would meet biannually (pre kharif and pre rabi) to agree on program
plans for each regional station. Research results would be presented and
programs finalized for the coming season. The Committee would comprise key
research staff from regional research stations, Directors and Associate
Directors of Research and the Directors of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry,
Deans of Agriculture and Engineering and two progressive farmers.
27.       Prior to the State Research Coordination Committee meetings,
Regional Research Coordination Committee meetings would be held at Regional
Research Stations with representatives of research and extension attending,
and including representatives from any substations in the region. Mutual
exchange of information and formulation of seasonal programs would be
finalized for presentation to the State Research Coordination Committee.
28.       Research workers at regional and substations would be actively
associated with training sessions held at state, regional and district levels.
29.       Collaborating Institutions.  Research stations would continue to
maintain close collaboration with national research organizations such as
ICAR, and research programs of institutions located in other parts of India.
Collaboration would be encouraged with international research institutions
from various countries where information is developed and which might be
useful in promoting crop productivity in Rajasthan.
E. Staffing
30.       Each ATC would be staffed as follows:
Discipline                Number
Agronomist                        1
Asst. Plant Pathologist           1
Asst. Entomologist                1
Research Assistants               8
Tractor Driver                    1
Pump Operator                     1
Accounts Clerk                    1
Ploughman                        3
Watchmen                          2



ANMEX 4
Table 1i
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Project Costsl/
)                                                                Foreign
1          2           3           4           5         Total        Exchange
EXTENSION
Capital Costs
Offices and Housing                   737       1,903      5,502       9,948         450        18,540         -
Equipment                           3,248       1,994        855         -           -           6,097        427
Vehicles                            4,250       4,436      2,500       1,064         -          12,250      2,818
Operating Costs
Salaries                            7,000     13,800      17,900      18,800      19,700        77,200         -
Staff Allowances                    2,330       3,311      4,022       4,186       4,384        18,299
Office Operating Costs              2,140       2,290      2,425       2,425       2,425        11,705         -
Vehicle Operating Costs               475       1,082      1,082       1,082       1,082         4,803      1,120
Total Extension                    20,180     28,882      34,286      37,505      28,041       148,894      4,365
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
Capital Costs
Gram Sevak Center                     600         555        -           -           -           1,155         -
Vehicles and Equipment                100         110        -           -           -             810        82
Operating Costs
Training Costs                        601         747         456        223          63         2,090         -
Staff and Student Costs             1,131       1,374      1,142       1,149       1,149         5,945          -
Training of Co-op Sec.                150         224         375        375         375         1,500        82
Total Agricultural Training         3,182       3,011      1,973       1,747       1,587        11,500
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
Capital Costs
Land and Farm Development           1,400         200         100         -           -          1,700
Buildings                             200         500         Bo0        508         -           Z,'3O         -
Equipment                             300         400        400         800         200         2,100       483
Operating Costs of Research
Stations                           3,700      4,400       6,300       6,500       6,685        27,585       551
Total Agricultural Research         5,200      6,700       7,700       8,200       6,885        34,685    1,034
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Capital Costs
Office Equipment                       73         -          -           -           -              73         7
Operating Costs
Salaries, Office Supplies and
Allowances                          378         378        378         378         378         1,890        53
External Project Evaluation           330        420         455         465         470        2,140          -
Total Monitoring and Evaluation       781         798        833         843         848        4,103         60
TOTAL (without Contingencies)       29,343      39,391      44,792     48,295      37,361       199,182    5,541
Physical Contingencies                896         997      1,350       1,510         713        5,468        273
Price Contingencies                   768      3,764       8,035      11,539     10,244         34,345    1,374
Sub-total Contingencies             1,664      4,461       9,385      13,044     10,957        39,811      1,647
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  31,007     44,152      54,177      61,339      48,318      238,993      7,188



INDIA
RAJASTRAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Extension
F.E.
------I-------        ----- II -- -          -----III -----        -----IV -------        ---V --------                Contingencis
Cost/Unit        No.       Cost        No.        Cost        No.        Cost       No.        Cost        No.        Cost      Total         %
r. Capital Costs
A. Offices and Housing
(i) Offices
District Offices                             50.00            1         50.00       1          50.00       1         50.00       -         -            -         -         150.00        -
Sub-District Offices                         50.00           4         200.00       8         400.00      18        900.00      20       1,000.00       -         -      2,500.00         -
(ii) Housing                 1/
District & Sub-District                       10.00                                 5         200.00     15         600.00      30       1,200.00       -         -      2,000.00         -
AEO-cum-Office                               30.00                                 15         450.00     35       1,050.00      85       2,550.00      15         450.0  4,500.00         -
VLW                                            7.50         65         487.50    107          802.50    387       2.902.50    693        5.197.50       -                9,390.00         -
Sub-Total                                                              737.50               1,902.50              5,502.50               9,947.50                 450.0 18,540.00
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                            74.00                 190.00                550.00                 995.00                  45.0  1.854.00
Total                                                                  811.50              2,092.50               6,0525                10,942.50                 495.0 20,394.00
B. Equipment
(i) Office Equipment & Furniture
Headquarters                                 22.00                      18.00                   4.00                                                                         22.00         -
District Offices                              15.00         14         210.00       6          90.00                                                                        300.00         -
Sub-District Offices                          11.50          30        345.00      20         230.00                                                                        575.00         -
AEO Offices                                    0.50         310        155.00    100           50.00      90          45.00                                                 250.00         -
VLW                                           0.30       2.500         750.00    800          240.00    700         210.00                                                1,200.00         -
(ii) Training Equipment
District Offices 2/                          30.00           14        420.00       6         180.00                                                                        600.00        1d
Sub-District Offices 3/                       15.00         30         450.00      20         300.00                                                                        750.00        10
VLW - Plant Protection Equip.                  0.60      1,500         900.00  1,500          900.00  1,000          600.00                                               2,400.00        10
Sub-Total                                                            3,248.00               1,994.00                 855.00                                               6,097.00
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                           324.00                 199.00                  86.00                                                 609.00
Total                                                                3,572.00               2,193.00                 941.00                                               6,706.00
C. Vehicles
(i) Headquarters
Cars                                          35.00                                 1          35.00                                                                          35.00        25
4-Wheel Drive                                 55.00                                 1          55.00                                                                          55.00        25
(ii) Regional Headquarters
Car                                           35.00                                  3        175.00                                                                         175.00        25
(iii) District Level
4-Wheel Drive                                 55.00                                20       1,100.00                                                                       1,100.00        25
Cinema Vans                                  100.00           5         500.00     15       1,500.00                                                                      2,000.00         25
(iv) Sub-District Level
4-Wheel Drive                                 55.00          50      2,750.00       17        935.00                                                                       3,685.00         25
(v) Field Level
Motorcycles                                    8.00         100         800.00      50        400.00    250        2,000.00    100          800.00                         4,000.00         25
Bicycles                                       0.40         500         200.00    590         236.00  1,250          500.00    660          264.00                         1,200.00          5
Total                                                                4,250.00               4,436.00               2,500.00               1,064.00                        12,250.00
Grand Total Capital Costs                                            8,633.50               8,721.50               9,493.50              12,006.50                 495.0 39,350.00
1/ For Extension Officers and SHS.
2/ Includes flip charts, diaries, slide projector, camera, etc.
3/ includes publications, flip charts, Blackboards, etc.



ANNEX 4
INDIA.&                          Table 2(b)
3JAETHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
(Thousand Rupees)
YEAR 1      YEAR II    YEAR III   YEAR IV    YEAR V          TOTAL
COST/
UNIT   UNIT    NO. COST   NO. COST   NO. COST   NO. COST   NO. COST   NO. COST
OPERATING COST
A. Incremental Staff
(M Directorate Level:
Addil. Director                   1     25    1       25   1      25  1       26   1       27   1      28   1    131
Joint Director (Ext. Tech)        1     23    1       24   2      48   2      50   2      52   2       54   2    228
Sub-Netter Specialists            1     17    1       17   1      18   1      19   1      20   1       21   1      95
Stenographers                     1      8    4       32   4      33   4      34   4      35   4       36   4    170
L.D.C.s                           1     58    3       17   3      18   3      19   3      20   8       21   3      95
Drivers                           1     58    -      -    2       12   2      13   2      14   2       15   2      54
Peons                             1     34    2        7   2       8   2       9   2      10   2       11   2      45
Sub-total                                      122         162         170          178         186         818
(ii) District Level:
Dy. Director Agri.                1     17.3  4       69   7    127   7    133   7    140   7    147   7    616
Specialist Inputs                 1     15    3       45   3      47   3      49   3      51   3       54   3    246
Sub-Natter Specialists            1     15   20    300  40    615  40    640  40    670  40    700  40   2925
L.D.C.s                           1      5.8  9       52   9      54   9      57   9      60   9       63   9    286
Drivers                           1      5.8  -      -   12       70  12      73  12      77  12       80  12    300
Sub-total                                      466         913          952         998        1044        4373
(iii) Sub-District Level:
Sub-Nettar Specialiste            1     15   60    900 110   1650 110   1730 110   1810 110   1890 110   7980
U.D.C.s                           1      6.5 50    325  50    341  50    357  50    373  50    389  50   1785
L.D.C.s                           1      5.8 50    290 100    594 100    624 100    654 100    684 100   2846
Drivers                           1      5.8 61    360  61    367  61    385  61    403  61    421  61   1936
Peons/Watchmen                    1      3.4 98    333 146    510 146    536 146    562 146    588 146   2529
Sub-total                                     2208        3462        3632         3802        3972       17076
(iv) Field Level:
Agri. Ext. Officers               1       6.9  85   587  185  1306  275  1900  275  2000  275  2100  275  7893
V.E.W.s 1/
(20% Selection Scale of
the total from                  1       5.3 681  3629 1481  7954 2181 11282 2181 11819 2181 12356 2181 47040
Ist Year):                              4.7
Sub-total                                     4216        9260       13182        13819       14456       54933
Total Salary                                   7012       13797       17936        18797       19658       77200
2/
B.  Staff Allowances
(for existing staff)                                 1220        1220         1240        1270        1335         6285
Headquarters                                            29          39          41           43          46         197
District Level                                         119         210         219          230         240        1018
Sub-Dist. Level                                        330         519         545         570          596        2560
Field Level                                            632        1389        1977        2073         2168        8239
Sub-total                                    2330        3377        4022         4186        4384       18299
Contingencies (51)                              117         169          201         207         219          913
Total                                     2447        3546        4223        4393         4603       19212
C. Office Operating Cost
Headquarters                        1      25     1    25       1   25    1    25       1   25       1   25         125
District Level                      1      45    20   900    20  900   20   900    20  900    20  900              4500
Sub-District Level                  1     15    50   750    50  750   50   750    50  750    50  750               3750
A.E.C.s                             1.   1.5   310   465   410  615  500   750   500  750   500  750               3330
Sub-total                                   2140        2290        2425          2425       2425       11705
Contingencies (5%)                             107         115          121          121        122          586
Total                                     2247        2405        2546          2546       2557       12291
Vehicle Operating Cost              1       12    -    -         6   72    6    72        6    72          6          288
Cars                                1       12    -    -         6   72    6    72        6    72          6          288
Jeeps                               1        8    50   400    88  710   88   710    88   710              88         3240
C. Van                              1       15      5    75    20  300   20   300    20  300              20        1275
Sub-total                                    475        1082        1082          1082       1082        4803
Contingencies (5x)                              24           54          54           54          54         240
total                                      499        1136        1136          1136       1136        5043
SUB-TOTAL OPrRATING COST                               11950       20546        25465        26490      27549      112000
Contingencies                                  284          338        376           382        395        1739
TOTAL                                              12198       20884       25841         26872      27944      113739
1/ Includes 200 extra parts to take account of those on training courses, leave, etc.
2/ Includes allowance for all staff (both existing and incremental).



me   J   a  s  X  X  >  n  >  |  *  s m g > w n X r A S E f R C Y P i |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Z 
H      O r        r                  m        ww    8    5   =   c H    o  -s                                                            t
;      b   0                                         0 .                     0                                                                                                   o .0  s u                   P~i        P     
00           00'   *      sbR4Ef> o                                         '   $>O-'                                                                              '0         '0   0REs  
0 t            t t0. t.'                                     00. E00 P                      t      So>                                                -                               E. 0000  E         Et 
N 00
00.0 0%0           0          0.0                          0              C         0000 0             0           '000 00   0  '0 0000 00                         0       000 .-.
00  0  0  00000  0"" 00000.0  0  0  0  -            0    0              0          C          0~0   0000.00.00                      00000



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
RAJASTHAN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
YEAR I      YEAR II   YEAR III    YEAR IV    YEAR V           TOTAL
Unit/
Unit  Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost
I. CAPITAL COST
A.  Land Purchase and Farm Development
(i)  Adaptive Research                           1     100   2       200  2      200  1      100                                  500
(ii)  B & A Researchl/                                1,000        1,200                                                         1.200
Sub-Total                                                    1,400          200         100                               1,700
B.  Buildings
Ci) Adaptive Research
Laboratories                                1     200                1      200  2      400   2    400                    1,000
Hostels/Training                           1       50   1       50  3       150  1       50                                  250
Farm quarters                              1      150   1      150  1       150  2      300   1    150                      750
Sub-Total                                                      200         500          750         550                   2,000
(ii) B & A Research
Laboratories and Offices                                                                 50         250                     300
C.  Equipment
Mi) Adaptive Research
Laboratory                                  1     100   1      100  2       200  2      200                                 500
Farm2/                                     1      100   1      100  2       200  2      200                                 500
Sub-Total                                                      200         400          400                               1,000
(ii) B & A Research
Laboratory/Farm                                                100                                  800        200       iA1OO
TOTAL CAPITAL COST                                           1,900       1,100       1,300        1,600        200        6,100
II. OPERATING COST
A. Salaries
Sr. Agronomist (1700-2000)                                1           1            1           1            1         1
Agronomist  (1150-1650)                                   5           5            5           5            5         5
Asst. Plant Pathologist (750-1350)                        5           5            5           5            5         5
Asst. Entomologist  (750-1350)                            5           5            5           5            5         5
Statisticians  (560-1270)                                 1           1            1           1            1         1
Research Assts. (590-1035)                               56          56           56          56           56        56
Agriculture Supervisors (440-770)                        56          56           56          56           56        56
Tractor Driver (355-570)                                  5           5            5           5            5         5
Pump Drivers (355-570)                                    5           5            5           5            5         5
L.D.C. cum-TD pist (355-570)                              5           5            5           5            5         5
Ploughmen   (240-290)                                   15          15            15          15           15        15
Peon/Chowkidar (240-290)                                10           10           10          10           10        10
Total                                                        1,280        1,360       1,440       1,530       1,620        7,230
B.  Allowances                                                     220           220         220         220         220       1,100
C. Operational expenses
(i)  Material and supplies                                          700          800       1,000       1,000        1,000       4,500
(ii)  Lab. operating charges                                          -           125          165         165         170         625
(iii)  General expenses and P.O.L.                                     50            75          75          85          90         375
Sub-Total                                                      750        1.000       1.240       1,250       1,260       5,500
D. B & A Research
Operating Costs of Stations                                  1,450        1,820       3,400       3,500       3,585      13,755
TOTAL OPERATING COST                                         3,700        4,400       6,300       6,500       6,685      27,585
- Basic and applied Research at UOU Stations.
2/ Includes tractor, ploughs, etc.



ANNEX 4
INDIA                                        Table 5
RAJASTRAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCh PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
(Thousand Rupees)
YEAR I        YEAR II       YEAR III        YEAR IV        YEAR V          TOTAL
Costl
Unit    Unit       No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost
I. Capital Costs
Office Equipment                                        73                                                                          73
Physical Contingencies
(10%)                                                  7                                                                           7
Total Capital                                           80                                                                          80
II. Operating Costs
A.  Salaries
i)  Agri. Directorate Level
Agricultural Economist                 14.3       1    13        1    14        1    15        1    16       1    17        1       75
Rural Sociologist                      14.3       -      -       1    14        1    15        1    16       1    17        1       62
Agriculture Assts.                      9.7       2    18        2    19        2    20       2    20        2    21        2       98
Draftsman                               6.5       1      5       1      7       1     8       1      8       1      9       1       37
Stenographer                            7.6       1      6       1      8       1     9       1      9       1      9       1       41
Sub-Total                                               42             62            67             69             73              313
ii) Regional Level
Agricultural Economist                 15         4    40        4    60        4    62        4    65       4    66        4      293
Statisticians                          12         5    40        5    60        5    62       5    64        5    66        5      292
Agriculture Assts.                      9.7       5    32        5    49        5    50       5    52        5    54        5      237
Stat. Assistants                        8         5    27        5    40        5    41       5    42        5    43        5      193
U.D.C.-cum-Steno.                       7.6       5    25        5    38        5    39       5    40        5    41        5      183
Sub-Total                                              164           247            254            263            270           1,198
Total                                                  206            309           321            332            343            1,511
B.  Office Supply                                           30             30             30             30            30              150
C.  Allowances                                              30             46             48            50             53              227
Total                                                  266           385            399            412            426           1,888
Ill.  Evaluation                                               250            300            315            315           320            1,500
TV.  For Studies                                                80           120            140            150           150              640
Total Operating Cost                                     596            805           854            877            896            4,028
Total Capital and Operating
Cost (without contingencies)                           669           805            854            877           896            4,101
June 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Price Contingencies
(Rs '000)
1       2         3         4         5          Total
Land              2/                   1,000   1,200        -         -        -           2,200
Price Contingency-                        50      132      -         -         -             182
Total                                  1,050   1,332        -         -        -           2,382
Civil Works I/                         2,740   4,585    7,735    9,140          500       24,700
Price Contingency-                       137      596    1,702    2,925         210        5,360
Total                                  2,877   5,181    9,437   12,065          710      30,060
Equipment and Vehicles-                9,567   8,311    3,876         100      100       21,954
Price ContingencyA/                      278      914       736        27        36       1,991
Total                                  9,845   9,225    4,612         127       136      23,945
Establishment Cost1/                  16,164  22,528   26,496   29,031   26,404         120,623
Price Contingency/                      303   2,122    5,597    8,582   10,111          26,715
Total                                 16,467  24,650   30,098   37,613   36,515         147,338
Total with Physical
Contingencies                       30,239  40,388   46,142   49,805   37,361         204,648
Price Contingencies                      768   3,764    8,035   11,534   10,957          34,345
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    31,007  44,152   54,177   61,339   48,318         238,993
1/ Includes physical contingencies.
2/ 1.5% for the second half of 1976, 6% in 1977 and 7% thereafter.  Compounded, this is
equivalent to 5% in year 1, 11%, 19%, 27% and 36% in years 2,3,4 and 5 respectively.
3/ 1.5% for the second half of 1976, 7% in 1977 and 8% thereafter. Compounded, this is
equivalent to 5%, 13%, 22%, 32% and 42% in years 1,2,3,4 and 5 respectively.
4/ 6% from 1977 onwards, equivalent ot 3% in year 1, 9%, 16%, 23% and 30% in years 2,3,4, and
5 respectively.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-,
(US $ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                                             Disbursement
and
Quarter                                         In Quarter        Cumulative
FY 1978
2/                                                4/
2nd-/                                             0.2-/             0.2
3rd                                              0.3                5.5
4th                                               0.4               0.9
FY 1979
ist                                               0.4               1.3
2nd                                              0.4                1.7
3rd                                              0.6                2.3
4th                                               0.8               3.1
FY 1980
1st                                               1.2               4.3
2nd                                               1.2               5.5
3rd                                              1.3                6.8
4th                                               1.0               7.8
FY 1981
1st                                               1.1               8.9
2nd                                               0.8               9.7
3rd                                               0.6              10.3
4th                                               0.4              10.7
FY 1982
ist                                               0.4              11.1
2nd                                               0.4              11.5
3rd                                               0.3              11.8
4th                                               0.3              12.1
FY 1983
Ist                                               0.3              12.4
2nd3/                                             0.3              12.7
3rd-                                              0.3              13.0
1/ Calculated on basis of Annex 4, assuming 1-2 quarter lags in disbursements.
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness, September 1, 1977.
3/ Estimated closing date March 31, 1983.
4/ Retroactive Financing US$ 200,000.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cumulative Schedule of Staff Appointments-/
_____----- Years ----------
1     2      3     4      5
EXTENSI  2/
Headquarters
Additional Director Extension                                1      1     -      -     1
Joint Directors (Ext., Tech., Adm.)                          3      3                  3
Deputy Director Statistics                                   1      1     -      -     1
Subject Matter Specialists                                   1      1     -      -     1
Support Staff                                               11    11      -     -    11
Regional District Level
Deputy Director Agriculture                                  4      7     -     -      7
District Administrative Officer                              3      -     -      -     3
Specialists                                                 20    40      -      -    40
Agricultural Assistants                                     17    37      -      -    37
Support Staff                                              141   141      -      -   141
Sub-District Level
Subject Matter Specialists                                  60   110      -     -   110
Training Officer                                            25    50      -      -    50
Support Staff                                              161   217      -     -   300
Field Level
AEO                                                        85   185   275      -   275
VLW                                                       680 1,480 2,180      - 2,180
3/
RESEARCH-
Senior Agronomist                                            1     -      -     -      1
Agronomist                                                   5     -      -     -      5
Assistant Research Officers                                 10      -     -     -    10
Research Assistants                                         56     -      -     -    56
Support Staff                                               96     -      -     -    96
1/ Full staff strength in case of extension after year 3 of operation and in case of
adaptive research after year 1.
2/ For details see Annex 4,
3/ For details see Annex 4.



AS= 6
Thbli. 2
*,IA
hAJASIHAN ai1lS1SLfJhAL 6LTASSION AND R.5EtlU H PROJtCT
INITIAL IMPLEENTATION SCHOILE
______--_________--_____ _-------------- ------------------------honths After    fe                    nss----------------------- ------------ -------------------
PRr,BoARD               PRE-
PR SOENATIN             RFF3CTIV =S              1      2      3      L      5      6       7      d             10       11      1       1       IL       15      16       17      18      19       20      21       22      23      24
LT 26
RrrRNMTnN kNO PRATNINK3
BP1dings a. .     nd ftw ep-t
Site Selection
Lend P.rchase
Prep-re Teoders
Start Ooestroctiof
PrFare Teed~e
Vehiolee                                                 ________                                                                           _____
fapoipeont
PVrohiae Vehicles
P-rch.e. rsipaet
Prepare Piano for
lOenovation Of
Tainiog Cfentes
Start RXueeyettone 
Staff
Appoint AOA                          _
SeLeitiee of 5153
Selection of AEOl                           ______________________
Selection  of ILW
Staff Treitlog                                               ___
RRSELRCH
&Uildiwe  and BZuiPasot
Prep-re Tdi-lg
Spacifisetlt-
Prepae Tend-e
Start Canetruction
Pre?alre TSepdr                                                                 I
and Vebiclees___
Staff
Select Staff
Appoint Staff
Pro1ecst Npettaeies 
Sele-t Staff                              _
Appoint Staff
Pro lent SEeloation 
Initiate Jeedgn of Pae.
Strveys
Fitalize retails    th
Un Tereity                                                  _
Det. Collection



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The project seeks to reorganize and strengthen agricultural
extension and supportive research services in 17 districts of Rajasthan
to generate and to bring proven agricultural practices to a large number
of farmers thereby increasing their productivity and income. An integral
part of the project would be the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system to: ensure that the extension and inputs organizations are operating
efficiently, enable project management to undertake corrective action when
necessary, and to assess the impact of the project on the target group. In
order to promote uniformity of monitoring and evaluation of the proposed and
of similar projects in other states, GOI, concerned states and IDA are cur-
rently working out detailed monitoring and evaluation procedures and it is
expected that these would be finalized by July 1977. The following outlines
the broad principles contained in a draft report on monitoring and evaluation
and has been discussed with GOI and GOR; details would be finalized and agreed
by December 1977. A provision of Rs 4.1 million has been included in project
costs to carry out such monitoring and evaluation.
2.        Monitoring would consist of timely gathering and analysis of data
to measure: the build up and performance of project organizations as well as
farmers' reaction to recommended practices. Monitoring or reporting of phy-
sical and financial project inputs (recruitment of staff, provision of trans-
portation, equipment, houses, offices, etc.) would be largely carried out
through the normal reporting system of the concerned organization. For ex-
tension, this would be the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture.
To suit the needs of both the State Government and IDA, a proforma for semi-
annual progress reports has been agreed. It would be necessary to supplement
this inbuilt monitoring (and reporting) system to provide, on a sample basis,
an independent assessment of performance and farmer reaction. This additional
aspect of monitoring should be carried out by the evaluation organization of GOR
with ongoing evaluation, which would: assess overall impact of extension on
crop yields and farmers' welfare and determine the degree to which the project
is reaching economic, technical and social targets set for agricultural devel-
opment. The purpose of ongoing evaluation is to provide project management
and policy-makers with analytical support that might be necessary to enable
them to assess and, if required, adjust policies, objectives, institutional
arrangements and resources affecting the project during implementation. The
remaining part of this annex refers to evaluation and those aspects of monitor-
ing which would be carried out on a sample basis by the evaluation organization.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Indicators
3.        The monitoring and evaluation described above would use a limited
number of selected indicators to reflect the essential agronomic, economic,
sociological, and institutional dimensions of the project. Key indicators
would focus on: farm visits, adoption rates and yields. To measure insti-
tutional build-up, indicators would include: staffing of the extension organi-
zation, selection of contact farmers, training and physical equipment. For
monitoring extension performance the suggested indicators are: degree of ex-
posure to extension, visit performance, farmers' evaluation of T&V, adoption
rates of new practices, and quality of training sessions. To measure project
impact, the main indicators would be: spread of new practices, area under
HYVs, amount of fertilizers purchased, credit use and recovery, yields and
changes in cropping patterns and changes in plant protection and water
management practices.
Studies
4.        Studies to generate information along the lines of selected indi-
cators would be:
(a) a sample survey of contact farmers, focussing on VEW field
visits. This would be carried out in preharvest months.
Out of the total of 400,000 contact farmers in the State,
a multi-stage stratified random sample comprising about
4,000 would be selected;
(b) an evaluation survey of a representative cross-section of
the total farming population, including a crop cutting
survey. The evaluation survey should be carried out at
harvest time during the two major seasons (kharif and rabi).
It would attempt to measure the impact of extension recom-
mendations on adoption rates and yields. The survey would
also: provide information on the dissemination of new
practices to followers; and correlate yields and take-up
rates with farm size and socio-economic status of farmers
to assess which rural groups benefit most from the project.
Due to the repetitive character of the evaluation survey,
a time series of yield data will be gradually accumulated.
Surveys in year one of the project would serve to establish
benchline data;
(c) a set of ad hoc studies, for example:
- Study of the selection of contact farmers;
- The use of demonstration plots as extension tools;
- Quality of training sessions;
- Survey of VEW and AEO; and
- Sociological village case studies on extension impact.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
5.        For project monitoring, strengthening of the Planning Cell of the
Directorate of Agriculture would be required but the Evaluation Organization
of GOR would be able to undertake the evaluation function. This would cover
the designing and carrying out of sample surveys, and ad hoc studies. At
headquarters, the Planning Cell would be staffed by statisticians, an agricul-
tural economist, one sociologist, and junior research officers as required.
Two or three field data collectors would be stationed in each region and
would be administratively responsible to the head of the Planning Cell.
Assistance from outside sources would be necessary, in particular for some of
the ad hoc studies and funds would be provided for the Agricultural Production
Commissioner to commission such assistance as and when required. State uni-
versities or other local institutions would be contracted to conduct such
studies. Details of staff and costs are given in Annex 4, Table 5.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ECONOMIC IMPACT AND RATE OF RETURN
1.        Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not sufficient experience in
Rajasthan to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However,
there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of
utilization of existing resources, which would be brought about by the
project, would generate a high rate of return. Yield increases necessary
to generate a 50% economic rate of return have been calculated. It has
been assumed that by Year 7 only 50% of all cropped land would have bene-
fited from improved farming practices and, that the present cropping pat-
tern of 17% wheat, 17% pulses, 23% other minor crops and 43% lower valued
cereals (sorghum, maize, barley, millets) would continue.
2.        Table 1 shows that to realize a 50% economic rate of return, annual
incremental production value by Year 7, at 1976 prices, would need to reach
about Rs 113 M (US$12.6 M). This could be achieved with annual yield in-
creases of about 4%: 48,000 tons wheat, 10,000 tons pulses and 32,000 tons
of other lower valued cereals, coming from 3.25 M ha of the 6.5 M of land
annually cropped to cereals and pulses to be found in the project area. These
increases would amount to 30 kg per ha of all crops grown. Experience with
reorganized extension services in other states of India suggests that there
would be little risk that yields would not increase by an average of at least
30 kg per ha. The following shows yields now obtained on best farmers' fields
and present average yields:
Present Yields -
Crop          Area            Yield Averages           Best Farmers
(M Ha)             kg/ha                    kg.ha
Wheat          1.5               1,300                     2,000
Pulses         2.1                 500                     1,600
Other
cereals 1/   2.9                  740                     1,800
1/   Sorghum, Barley, Maize, Millets and Barley.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Assumptions
3.        The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period.
4.        In deriving the cost stream, extension, training and research crops
have been aggregated (Table 1). No scrap values have been placed on buildings
and equipment. Financial prices have been used on all cost items. The sha-
dow exchange component is small; shadow pricing of foreign exchange cost would
have a negligible effect of the result.
5.        The benefit stream and conversion to a yield figure has been derived
on the following assumptions:
(a) that all benefits derived come from 6.5 M ha land cropped to cereals,
and pulses:
Wheat 1.5 M ha
Pulses 2.1 M ha
Other cereals 2.9 M ha
(b) the economic price of crops is based on Bank Commodity Price
forecasts June, 1976 and calculated to be: wheat Rs 1,920 per
ton and other crops Rs 760 per ton;
(c) benefits would accrue as follows:
Year                 Percentage
1                     Nil
2                      10
3                      30
4                      60
5                      80
6                      90
7 onwards             100
6.        Project Risks:  The most significant risk lies in the fact that
the effectiveness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an
efficient organization and management of extension and research services as
well as farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects has already
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formula-
tion and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed
project is different from the ongoing activities in that it mainly concen-
trates on rainfed, rather than irrigated, areas and for this reason there
is a somewhat higher degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increase.
however, there are a significant number of improved practices and research
findings suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields,



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
RAJASTHAN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECTS
Economic Analysis
------------------- Costs (Rs '000) -----------------  --------- Benefits --------
Incremental             Incremental   Total  Total Cost   % Ult.                Present
Extension                Research      Total  Discounted  Benefit  Discount  Value of
Year      Costs      Training      Costs       Cost      at 50%    Achieved  Factor   Benefits
1       20,180        3,182       5,200      28,562    19,022         -       0.666        -
2       28,882        3,011       6,700      38,593    17,135        10       0.444      0.044
3       34,286        1,973       7,700      43,959    13,012        30       0.296      0.088
4       37,505        1,747       8,200      47,452     9,348        60       0.197      0.118
5       28,041        1,587       6,885      36,513     4,783         80      0.131      0.105
6       28,041        1,587       6,885      36,513     3,177        90       0.087      0.078
7-20     28,041        1,587       6,885      36,513      2,118      100       0.058      0.058
68,595                           0.607
The annual incremental value of crops (1976 prices) required from Year 7 onwards to achieve
a 50% rate of return is Rs 68.60 M or Rs 113 M
0.607
Present Yearly      Price    Present Yearly Value
Area   Present Yields       Production      of Crops          of Crops
M Ha       Tons/Ha            M Tons         Rs/Ton             Rs M
Pulses           2.1           0.5              1.05            7602/               798
Wheat            1.5           1.3              1.95          1,9201/            3,744
Other Cereals   2.9             .74             2.15            760i/            1,634
6,176
To obtain Rs 113 M all yields must increase by 113 or 1.8% on all cropped land or 4% on 50%
6172
of cropped area. Yield increases required would thus be:
Pulses            20 kg/ha
Wheat             50 kg/ha
Other Cereals    30 kg/ha
June 15, 1977
-/See Table 2.
-/ Government support price has been used as these crops are not traded internationally.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Economic Price for Wheat
1.   Wheat - Bombay                                         US$
Price of Wheat fob Canada                              172 1/
Add cif to Bombay and
handling to wholesale outlet                          52
224/ton in Bombay
wholesale market
2.   Cost of Handling Wheat from Rajasthan (Farmgate to Bombay)
Rs/ton
Transport and handling up to                 25.00
railhead 2/                              30.00
Rail to Bombay                               40.80
Handling to wholesale market 3/              95.80
3.   Economic Price of Wheat at Farmgate
Imported wheat Bombay wholesale market
(US$224/ton less handling charges from
Rajasthan to Bombay, converted from rupees to dollars @Rs 9   US$1);
= US$213 or Rs 1,920/ton wheat.
1/   From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, Report No. 814, June 1976;
1985 forecast for Canadian wheat.
2/   Transport and handling from farms to railhead Rs 2.50/qtl.
3/   Handling charges and commission.



INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
tO9RGANIZATION CHART
C:OOhOtNA I IVt                                                                                                                       If EVEfI o
ffEStARCH                         BOD)IES                                                                                                                         ALIMINISIRATION
| ICC CtIANCEI ON                            PROJECT |-  CAGHICUt 1.HAI                                                                                                         STATE
AGRIC,ULIUIRAl IJNILVERSIlTY  -------COORI) C(,AMIITEE                                                     PRODUCTION WMAriA,s"I'NIl
DIRElCTOR Of1 RtSEARCH                                              __l                                 OF AGHICULIUHL                                                STAlE
STATE RESEARCH                                                                                   IDA     D A)UA s
_   COOHOINATING
__---       COMMITEE        S--A'-------
_ ~   ~         ~                  __  __________________------------  AlDDtlONAI                                                        STATE
__                \                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR OF AGRR:UI lUHf (EXI|
hIEAD DEPT Of       _-                                                                      Nt OtRECIOR                                          IDA
ECONOMICS AND                                                                        SIATISIC t PtN G                                           IADMIN)      IDJIXI)      IDA
FARM MANAGEMENT           [TECH)  EGONAl RESEARCF
(EVALUATION STUDIES)                                             COORDIINATING                                                 DIRECTOR Of AGRICULTURE        CENTER (1)                                REGION
COMMItTEE    ~
(HfGIONAL RSEARCFH STATIONS)      ,
--_    DISTRICT l0D) DEPUIYSR
|   /                                                    1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE                            DISTRICT
RESEARCH SU8-STAIIONS (5)
X   _ _ .                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPECIALISTS (4J
EXPERMIMtNTAL
RESEA RCt1                      F ARMS (20\                     E sul tti SOO itCf                                                         DVSO
AGRONOMIST (20)                                                     EINONFF0                                                              SUB DI VISJION
(TRAININGI     SS  .SMS
(AGRONOMY)   (PLAlt
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                    DECTECTtOt)
OFFICER (5001 (AEO)                              EDt 414W
(INPUTS)
Vllt IAGE E)tl ENSI)N                               I                VILLAGE
WORKER (4000) (VEWt)                        PLANT PROTECTION
8 FARMER UNIUS PER VLW                            UNITS (161)           FlEtD
ADAPTIVE                                                   1O CONTACI FARMERS PER UNII
INALS
(FARMEtS FIELDS)
Wotid Baank- 16A9






IBRD 12538
.2                                74O                                 I6D                                 JANUARY 1977
({   App,n,,n,, Ch..L..                                                             INDIA
pokIsolon  \ >^       h Sbrton7  r-' $RAJASTHAN
A901                                 AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Ind0.     -       tU,rn     0   25  50  75  00  125  150  175  200                                           A      Main Research Stations
KILOMETERS                                                         A     Research Substations
AL   Gram Sevak Training Center           30'-
I 4  9  i:*:G  t  :  ,Gang=nnnno  ;J =    | Project Districts
I  I                                          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(   State Capital
Lon~~~~~~~~~~~~~e         /                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~  District Headquarters
_____________________________  N                                                            ~~    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~0 Other  Towns
'0'                /-G-----G-A            N   A   G   A   R-                     D istrict    Boundaries
GANGANAGAR                                             State Boundaries
k> xv  /  p5   \-i,   ,- __ ' i,,         -Internationol Boundaries
t  \                   /                                 i''                  , y/-'
I                      ,-~~~~~~~h
B  I K A  N  E  R                                 J'NC  H  U  R  U  JH-'U JHUN  /    IN   J
C H U R U               HUN
28'*                                                                                                                          ,j'28'-
-2a- / >\ .i _ si^~~~~~~~~~,knen                              \ \                                                 t ohnihnn,'i( rsiO 
'-- ''                                      '                  Sik0n '  K  AR           AluonS     1 r.TSk
/~   ~         ~         ~        ~       v .xt  ,,                            -- .,                     NtNAUL j 
/ J A I S A L M E R   Kl I                                        ' ' ON ANos G A U R                                               AR AApTR
(                         2o,suolnen           0                  l-----v-\                      \<                        AUjiSA            *'>I ----/
\-_. >                           2 ~~~~~~~~~~J 0 D H P U R                                            URit raWl{?8i.
/'______ ----,   "*~ ~&\.   _--.                    oJodhpo.       ( r         A  J ME R (                      Mb  A         u
-26 t B      A R        lOR   A E                 NR '_                       / -          '   NO CO
,,-nP At | [  j:HItLWARA  /BU _ 
)          ( ~~~J A L 0 R                                                                                    93
>'*S-,^ nINROHL                                      7                            -)
-HITTO0ARH
<._ / <. j .. _, t ~~~~~~~~~~U D A iP U                                          R                    u,>(JH <
.. ~UbAI PUR                    7 
-24'                                                                                            _.>                                                                 24'
Thryboy,nd,nuri5,own on ,/is rnyppdo nor                                 <             lslfs
inspiy endorsemcnr or roccPiance Sn ithe.                                            NWR
Tfo,d5ob :nd in-  hnior.r                                                     -
70'                                   722'                                                                         76                                    78-



