FILE COPY                      The World Baok
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2010-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
July 7, 1977
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at May 31, 1977)
Rs 1.00                  Paise 100
US$1.00         -         Rs 8.81
Rs 1.00                  US$0.1135
Rs 1 million             US$113,500
CSince September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
iow floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
:o change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at
JS$1 to Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Used in this Report
AEO     -    Agricultural Extension Officer
GOI     -    Government of India
GOR     -    Government of Rajasthan
VLW     -    Village Level Worker/s
VEW     -    Village Extension Worker/s
UOU     -    University of Udaipur



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:   The State of Rajasthan
Amount:          US$13 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Relending Terms: From GOI to GOR:   As part of Central assistance for
State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project
Description:   The project would consolidate and strengthen Rajasthan's
extension services, in 17 out of 26 Districts of the State,
and help develop adaptive research facilities with the
objective of achieving early and sustained improvements in
agricultural production, particularly of foodgrains. The
project components would include:
-     reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension services;
-     development and strengthening of adaptive
research; and
-     creation of project monitoring and evaluation
facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofici duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project                                      (US$ million)
Costs:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
Extension                       16.06    0.48      16.54
Training                         1.27     0.01      1.28
Research                         3.74     0.12      3.86
Evaluation and
Monitoring                     0.45    0.01       0.46
Sub-total                   21.52    0.62      22.14
Price Contingencies              3.66    0.15       3.81
Physical Contingencies           0.58    0.03       0.61
Total Project Cost          25.76    0.80      26.56
Financing                                              (US$ million
Plan:                                           Local    Foreign   Total
IDA                             12.20      0.80     13.0
Government of Rajasthan         13.56        -      13.56
Total                        25.76      0.80     26.56
Estimated
Disbursement:                                      (US$ million)
FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83
Annual                    0.9   2.2    4.7   2.9   1.4   0.9
Cumulative                0.9   3.1    7.8  10.7  12.1  13.0
Rate of Return: At least 50%.
Appraisal
Report:         No. 1443a-IN, dated July 7, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$13 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project to strengthen the agricultural extension
service and upgrade and develop adaptive research in the State of Rajasthan.
The proceeds of this credit would be channelled to the Government of
Rajasthan in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and
arrangements for financing of state development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 630 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP; similarly, the net transfer of
resources from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as
0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. The investment rate puts India in the lower
third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is the fact that
in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10% in the early
1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP growth has
remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the efficiency of
capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization, long project
gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive projects and
sectors.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Maharashtra Irrigation Project (Report No.
P-2036-IN), dated June 30, 1977.



- 2 -
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum (converted at the official exchange rate) and US$250 on a purchasing
power parity basis.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The state of the economy was not a promi-
nent election issue; in fact the economy was generally stronger than at any
time in the last six years. Although the growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not
expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top of the very good growth of 8.8%
in 1975/76. Agricultural production is expected to have fallen by about 3%,
but only because of the return to a more normal harvest of 110-114 million
tons of foodgrains after the record 121 million tons of the previous year.
Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77, which is significantly above the
rates achieved in the late 1960's and early 1970's. Exports continued their
bright performance, rising by 25% in nominal terms. The overall resource
position, with record foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exception-
ally strong, and gives the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September 1974 through March 1976,



- 3 -
rose 11% from the end of March to December 1976. This upsurge may be a new
inflationary trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the
relative prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
trade deficit is estimated to have fallen by US$1,130 million, due to a rise
of US$1,145 million in exports. The decreased trade deficit, along with a
further increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles
from abroad of US$470 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million in
net aid and the substantial repurchases of currency from the IMF, and allowed
a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of US$3.65
billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With
regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.



- 4 -
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for rapid growth, as the most serious
constraints on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation
with respect to power, coal and imported raw materials and components. There
has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77 Central
Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In many
cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in their
markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain chemicals,
some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and vehicles.
But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand will grow
only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If the higher
growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize,
it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to
specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share that agri-
culture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for agricul-
tural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced
inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand signi-
ficantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       Improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for India's
ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organization-
al and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been over-
come, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable, and
the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export demand.
Supply of electricity continues to be a concern, because of the vulnerability
of hydro power to variations in the monsoon and the continued existence of
local shortages, even when the overall power situation is satisfactory. But
several institutional improvements promise to reduce the future incidence of
shortages: underutilization of capacity has been virtually eliminated in
well-established power stations; progress has been made in the organized
exchange of power between states thus relieving localized power shortages;
and the problems of slow implementation of power investment due to delayed
delivery of materials and equipment have virtually disappeared. In addition,
the delays caused by the inability of State Electricity Boards to finance
projects expeditiously have been eased by their improved financial position
following tariff increases, and by increased Plan outlays by the Central



- 5 -
further improved by major new finds of oil and gas near the large offshore
Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to shore for the
first time in May 1976; production reached an annual rate of 2 million tons
by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by 1984/85.
Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above the current
level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising imports will be
avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are also bright for
further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of exploration
activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 50 loans and 85 development
credits to India totalling US$1,762 million and US$4,338 million (both net



- 6 -
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$816 million has been
repaid, and US$1,432 million was still undisbursed as of May 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of May 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.9 million, US$24.4 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of May 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of



- 7 -
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
May 31, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$973 million, of which
US$494 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$479 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND RAJASTHAN
23.       Agriculture is India's most important sector.    It provides employ-
ment for approximately 70% of the population, contributes about 45% to GNP,
and provides a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural
sector has been on increasing foodgrain output through improved yields re-
sulting from more intensive use of seed of high yielding varieties (HYV),
fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation. With self-sufficiency in food as a
national objective, investments in foodgrain production have been given top
priority by Government and will continue to be the focus of national atten-
tion for the foreseeable future.
24.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged 3% per annum. This rate has been very much affected by serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1973 and obscures considerable
variations over shorter periods, between crops and between regions. The
success of high yielding varieties produced increases in wheat production of
about 20% per annum between 1967 and 1971. This "green revolution" primarily
affected wheat, and was concentrated in north western India, very largely on
account of the advanced state of agriculture in that area and the availability
of irrigation. Efforts to spread the high yielding technology have been



- 8 -
hampered by limited irrigation facilities and farm service and supply institu-
tions operating at low levels of effectiveness. But the under-utilisation of
modern inputs is first a demand problem rather than one of sheer availability.
In much of India, where yields are low, farmers are caught in a cycle of low
productivity, low income and low investment; they are poorly placed to take
on the risks associated with the new technology which is costly, particularly
as it tends to yield low returns when applied under traditional cultural
practices.
25.       A way to help break this cycle is to raise standards of cultural
practices, using resources already available to farmers, in particular, abund-
ant labor. The key to this approach is a strengthening and reorganization of
existing agricultural research and extension services along the lines first
tried on a limited area in three Bank Group assisted irrigation projects in
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (Ln. 1011-IN, Cr. 502-IN and Cr. 562-IN). These
projects showed dramatic production increases are possible by widespread
improvement in such basic cultural practices as seedbed preparation, control
of plant population and weeding. This advice is carried by a reorganized
extension service which puts great emphasis on concentration of efforts,
systematic and regular training, close supervision of staff at all levels,
and a fixed schedule of visits to farmers' groups. Coupled with an expanded
program of adaptive research, the system has the capacity to transmit appro-
priate recommendations from the researcher to the farmer quickly and effec-
tively at little extra cost to Government. Once farmers increase their
production and their confidence in the extension service grows, they can be
expected to adopt the higher yielding and more costly technology based on
purchased inputs and on-farm investments.
26.       This approach to improving extension services has been introduced
over a wide area of India through a number of Bank Group assisted projects.
This project would extend the improved system to a large part of Rajasthan.
27.       Rajasthan.   Rajasthan is India's second largest state in land area,
tenth in population and eighth in foodgrain production. Agriculture is the
dominant economic activity, employing about three-fourths of the population
and contributing 45% of the state's product. Large areas of the state are
desert, with low average rainfall, occasional severe drought and extensive
tracts of sandy soil. These areas contain sparse populations which exist
partly on nomadic livestock herding and partly on settled agriculture based
on the naturally drought resistant crops of millet and pulses. The eastern
part of the state, while still dry, is better placed both for rainfall and for
potential of surface irrigation. However, only 15% of the state's net sown
area is under irrigation and the cropping intensity is only 113%. The crop-
ping pattern differs greatly between the western part of the state, where
essentially only millet and pulses are grown, and the eastern part where wheat
is the single largest crop but coarse grains and pulses command sizeable areas.
Rice is a minor crop. Statewide, over 75% of cropped area is under foodgrains
of which pearl millet alone accounts for over 40%.



- 9-
28.       Foodgrain yields in Rajasthan are generally low.    As might be ex-
pected, yields of coarse grains and pulses grown in the drier areas are very
low, about half their All-India average. But even wheat and maize grown in
the wetter areas have yields below the All-India average. Fertilizer con-
sumption per hectare is less than one fourth of the All-India average. How-
ever, yields have increased faster than in some other low productivity areas.
From 1952 to 1961, the total cropped area expanded at an annual rate of 3.4%
but the rate of expansion dropped sharply to 0.7% in 1962-1971. The annual
growth in crop production rose from an average annual rate of 2.7% from
1952 - 1961 to 3.6% from 1962 - 1971, indicating a spurt in productivity
brought about by increases in irrigated area. Yields nonetheless remain low
and there exists considerable potential for increases in productivity.
29.       In the past, emphasis has been placed on raising production through
use of inputs, including HYV seeds, fertilizer and irrigation, thereby limit-
ing the impact on areas which had no access to irrigation or had difficulty
in organizing the complementary inputs. To redress this balance and to raise
foodgrain production in the short run, emphasis needs to be placed on raising
yields largely through transferring to farmers the knowhow of proven, simple
improvements. This can be achieved by improvements in agricultural extension
methods backed by an effective and responsive adaptive research program.
Existing technology will suffice for the next two or three years but additional
research is needed to bring new techniques forward after that time. The pro-
posed project is designed to do this.
Other Bank Group Activities in Rajasthan
30.       The first Bank Group projects in Rajasthan were a US$52 million loan
(Ln. 1011-IN of June 19, 1974) for the development of the Chambal Irrigation
Canal command area and a US$83 million credit (Cr. 502-IN of July 31, 1974) for
development in the Rajasthan Canal command area. These projects pioneered the
new extension and research systems in India with encouraging results. Other
components of these projects are also proceeding satisfactorily. In addition,
a Rajasthan Dairy Development Project (Cr. 521-IN of December 18, 1974) is
currently being implemented, with satisfactory results. The Bank Group is
also assisting two low-rainfall districts of northwestern Rajasthan under the
Drought Prone Areas Project (Cr. 526-IN of January 24, 1975). The Drought
Prone Areas Project, designed to increase and stabilize production in the
project districts, is also proceeding satisfactorily. Additional information
on these projects is contained in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) and a
proposal was submitted to the Bank Group in June 1976. It was appraised in
October 1976. A report entitled "Appraisal of the Rajasthan Agricultural
Extension and Research Project", Report No. 1443a-IN, dated July 7, 1977, is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations took
place in Washington in May 1977. The Borrower's delegation included Mr. Vineet
Nayyar, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India, and
Mr. B. Hooja, Agricultural Production Commissioner, Government of Rajasthan.



- 10 -
Project Description
32.       The project would consolidate and strengthen agricultural extension
services in 17 out of Rajasthan's 26 districts, covering a total cropped area
of 9.6 million ha, and develop adaptive research facilities. The main ob-
jective is to achieve early and sustained improvements in agricultural pro-
duction, particularly foodgrains. The proposed five year project would
consist of the following:
-    consolidation and strengthening of the agricultural
extension services by providing additional staff,
training, housing, offices, equipment and transport.
-    development of adaptive research, by establishment
of five Adaptive Trial Centers and seven sub-stations
under the Department of Agriculture and by supporting
basic and applied research at the University of
Udaipur, through provision of staff, staff training,
equipment, operating costs and buildings.
-    establishment of project monitoring and evaluation
facilities through provision of staff, equipment and
funds for studies.
Project Implementation
33.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of exist-
ing agencies. Overall coordination would be through a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), headed by the Agricultural Production Commissioner of
Rajasthan. GOR has agreed to establish PCC by December 31, 1977; it would
meet at least twice a year (Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement). It
would include senior representatives of all relevant Central and State Govern-
ment organizations and the University of Udaipur. In addition to overall super-
vision and coordination, the PCC would assess the implications of proposed
extension recommendations for credit, inputs, storage and marketing and ensure
that measures were taken by relevant agencies to meet requirements.
34.       The Director of Agriculture, under the Agricultural Production Com-
missioner, would be responsible for implementation of the extension program
and for adaptive research to be carried out at Adaptive Trial Centers. The
Director of Research, Agricultural University of Udaipur, would be responsible
for basic and applied research at the University's research stations. Close
coordination between extension and research would be ensured through an exist-
ing State Level Extension and Research Coordination Committee chaired by the
Director of Agriculture, which would meet at least twice a year (see Section
2.02(b) of the Project Agreement). This Committee, which includes the Director
of Research and other key officials, would assess inputs and credit supply
requirements, and approve future research and extension programs submitted by
Regional Committees. Regional Research Coordination Committees, to be estab-
lished at each research station under the regional Joint Director of Agricul-
ture, would include the Associate Director of Research, the District Deputy



- 11 -
Directors of Agriculture and subject matter specialists as members. The
Regional Committees would meet at least twice a year to review and formulate
extension and research programs and submit proposals for ratification by the
State Level Committee.
Agricultural Extension
35.       Under the project, a well-trained, highly motivated, and technically
competent extension organization would be given the means to provide farmers
with relevant and practical technical guidance aimed at increasing production
and incomes. The new system would replace over the next three years pre-
vious extension arrangements which have proven ineffective. Under the previous
system, each village level worker (VLW), who was responsible for extension at
the farm level, was expected to cover some 2,000 families. However, most VLW
were employed as multipurpose workers, responsible for many duties unrelated
to agriculture. They worked under the Community Development Department, were
administratively responsible to Block Development Officers while technically
backed by the Department of Agriculture. Hence, while VLW were locally res-
ponsible for agricultural extension, their effectiveness was dissipated by the
many functions expected of them, the complex lines of technical control and
supervision, and the large number of farmers each VLW was expected to reach.
This resulted in little time being devoted to agricultural production, few
and sporadic farm level contacts, and low impact on yields, particularly of
small farmers.
36.       Under the project, the entire extension staff in the project area
is being reorganized into a single line of command under the Department of
Agriculture. Some 4,000 village level workers would be required under the
project. The Government of Rajasthan has issued an order to transfer to the
Department of Agriculture about 980 VLW previously working under the Community
Development Department, and to redeploy most of the other low level agricul-
tural workers under the Department of Agriculture, for agricultural extension
work. This would provide about 1,800 agricultural extension workers, who
would be redesignated as Village Extension Workers (VEW) to reflect their
exclusive extension role. The remaining 2,200 VEW would be new recruits.
There is an adequate supply of qualified candidates to ensure that all dis-
tricts would be fully staffed within three years. When all districts are
fully staffed, there would be one VEW to every 500 to 900 farmers, the actual
numbers in each case depending on population density and the communications
network.
37.       To ensure satisfactory supervision, training and control of field
staff, the 17 administrative districts under the project would be divided in-
to 50 sub-districts, each headed by a Sub-District Extension cum Training
Officer. Each Sub-District Officer would supervise 10 Agricultural Extension
Officers (AEO) who, in turn, would supervise 8 VEW. To strengthen technical
support, two subject matter specialists would be appointed at each sub-district,
one each in agronomy and plant protection. Subject matter specialists would
spend their time equally between field visits (with VEW), research and train-
ing. In addition, at district level, there would be specialists in informa-
tion and training, water management, farm implements, entomology, pathology



- 12 -
and horticulture. Total professional staff requirements would be 540 AEO,
210 subject matter specialists and 35 supervisory staff. Of these, about
260 AEO, 93 subject matter specialists and 21 support staff are presently
available. The rest would be new recruits. These new staff members would
undergo special induction training and the project would finance the costs
of salaries, allowances and training.
38.       Under the new agricultural extension system, an intensive farm
visit program would be introduced. An estimated 2.9 million farm families
in the project area would be divided into some 4,000 units of 500 to 900
families each, and one VEW would be allocated to each unit. Each unit would
be further divided into 8 sub-units of 60 to 110 farmers. From each sub-unit
VEW would select 8-10 contact farmers in consultation with the farmers them-
selves. Selection would be from among farmers of all categories who are known
to be of potential influence and willing to adopt the new extension methodology.
The VEW would visit each sub-unit once every two-weeks on a fixed day of the
week. At each location, he would convey extension messages primarily through
the contact farmers, concentrating on the most important crops of their local-
ity and initially on a few improved cultural practices of immediate relevance.
In the morning VEW would tour farmers' fields and in the afternoon would hold
a meeting in the village at a predetermined hour. In irrigated areas the
visits may be more frequent.
39.       Each Agricultural Extension Officer would supervise about 8 VEW and,
at least once every two weeks, would participate in part of each VEW pro-
gram of visits to farmers, following such a pattern as would enable him to
reach every farmers group at least twice each season. He would check that
the VEW visits and meetings were being carried out on schedule and would
assist both VEW and farmers in technical matters. He would also assist the
VEW in carrying out demonstrations and simple trials.
Training of Extension Staff
40.       Regular one-day training sessions for VEW would be held once every
two weeks and would be an integral part of the system. In these sessions,
extension staff would be instructed in the most important recommendations
for their next round of field visits. Messages consistent with recommenda-
tions of the research and extension coordination committees (see paragraph
34 above) would be taught to VEWs by subject matter specialists and a train-
ing officer who would be assigned at the district level. Subject matter
specialists would maintain close contacts with researchers at the regional
research stations and would also maintain contact with the Adaptive Trial
Centers. Once every four weeks, on pre-determined days, District Agricultural
Officers would hold 2-day seminars for senior staff, including Sub-District
Extension Officers, Subject Matter Specialists, Training Officers, and all
Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) of the district. Trainers at these
sessions would be research workers from regional stations, district
specialists and occasionally subject matter specialists themselves.



- 13 -
41.       At the start of the project new staff would have to be trained and
others upgraded in order to improve the quality of extension and research
staff. Agricultural Extension Officers are direct recruits from colleges,
and VEW are generally secondary school leavers recruited after a two-year
pre-service course. In the past, in-service and in-field training has been
inadequate. Under the project, two training centers would be developed to
provide pre-service training for future VEW, upgrading courses for older
VEW and short term training of other field staff. Buildings, transportation
and equipment would be provided and classrooms added. A limited number of
scholarships would also be provided for advanced training of VEW, AEO and
subject matter specialists.
Housing and Transportation
42.       The proposed extension methodology would require the field staff
to live near their place of work and to be sufficiently mobile to function
effectively. At present, housing in rural areas is limited and public trans-
portation is inadequate, thus extension workers spend much of their time
travelling. The project would provide modest housing for about 20% of field
level and sub-district staff.    Satisfactory housing is available for the
remainder of staff. The project would also finance construction of 50 sub-
district office - cum - training buildings. Equipment and furniture would
also be provided. Assurances have been obtained from the Government of
Rajasthan that: (i) it would provide such housing and other buildings as may
be necessary to ensure that the extension staff will live in the area assigned
for their operations; and (ii) it would complete, by December 31, 1978, a sur-
vey to determine the location of the housing and buildings to be financed
under the proposed Credit (see Sections 2.08 (a) and (b) of the Project Agree-
ment). The project would also provide equipment and vehicles at headquarters,
district and sub-district levels, including motorcycles for AEO and bicycles
for VEW. GOR has undertaken to provide credit facilities to staff to purchase
motorcycles and bicycles and necessary financial incentives to ensure optimum
utilization of such transport (see Section 2.12 (a) and (b) of the Project
Agreement).
Agricultural Research
43.       In Rajasthan, basic and applied agricultural research is undertaken
at research stations of the University of Udaipur for all major crops grown
in the State, with emphasis on breeding and testing of suitable varieties,
improved cultural practices, and pest and disease control. Past work has
seen some progress in these areas but has largely concentrated on producing
recommendations for irrigated crops, using high yielding varieties and high
levels of fertilizer application. Insufficient attention has been paid to
rainfed crops and to providing small farmers with recommendations as to how
they might maximize yields given little or no access to credit. There are
also centrally sponsored schemes under the Indian Council of Agricultural Re-
search, but they are more oriented towards national requirements than those
of the State and regional needs. In addition, research workers under the
University devote much of their time to teaching, resulting in insufficient
attention to research. Resource limitations have often resulted in a lack
of research to evaluate and adapt agronomic practices under different agro-
climatic conditions.



- 14 -
44.       Under the project, adaptive research facilities would be
strengthened by establishing a network of five Adaptive Trial Centers and
seven sub-stations covering the main agro-climatic regions to be found
throughout the project districts. These stations would provide the extension
service with simple and relevant technical messages suitably adapted to
locality, size of farm and ability of the farmer to invest and take risks.
The extension advice would be based initially on low-cost methods of yield
improvements using better cultural practices and later, as farmers' income
and skill develop, on more costly techniques. These stations would also
provide for training of extension staff.
45.       The commodity-oriented research program of the University would
continue to identify and select improved varieties of the most important
crops obtained from national and international research institutions, with
a package of economically significant practices directed to substantially
increasing crop production and at the same time minimizing farmers' risks.
Selected varieties and production packages would be forwarded to the adap-
tive trial stations for further testing in each of the different agro-
climatic zones, concentrating initially on food crops. At the adaptive
trial stations, the most promising practices and varieties would be identi-
fied and recommendations prepared for the extension service in response to
needs of the local extension staff and farmers.
46.       The project would provide at the adaptive trial stations, civil
works, including construction of laboratory, office buildings and modest
dormitories. Training facilities, equipment, vehicles, incremental staff
salaries and research operating expenses would also be provided at these
stations. The project would also provide for staff, equipment, land develop-
ment and operating costs for the basic and applied research at the University
to ensure that it would continue to furnish recommended production practices
to the Adaptive Trial Centers. These facilities would be adequate to meet
the research requirements of the extension service over the next several years.
Furthermore, to safeguard against any shortfall of agricultural research in
the future, GOR has agreed in consultation with the Indian Council of Agri-
cultural Research to formulate, by June 30, 1979, and subsequently to carry
out a program satisfactory to the Association to strengthen the University's
research facilities. (see Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
47.       An essential feature of the project would be monitoring and eva-
luation of project progress and impact. This would provide guidance to
those responsible for project implementation and permit in-depth evaluation
of longer term effects brought about by the project. Project monitor-
ing, including reporting on physical and financial inputs, would be carried
out through the normal reporting systems of the Department of Agriculture.
This information would be supplemented by an independent assessment of the
performance of project organizations. For this purpose, and to provide con-
tinuous evaluation covering the economic, institutional and technical impact
of the project, a separate evaluation unit would be set up at the headquarters
supported by small units at district level. This on-going evaluation would



- 15 -
be supplemented with in-depth ad hoc studies as required. The project would
provide for staff, equipment and funds to enable this work to be carried out.
Assurances have been obtained that GOR would carry out continuous monitoring
and evaluation of the Project in a manner that would be acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, and the results of such monitoring and evaluation would be sent to
the Association at least once a year (see Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total project cost is estimated at US$26.56 million (including
duties and taxes estimated at about US$1.06 million), of which the estimated
foreign exchange component is US$0.80 million or 4%. The proposed credit of
US$13 million would finance about 51% of project costs, net of duties and
taxes, and cover the whole of foreign exchange costs plus about US$12.20 mil-
lion of local costs. Local cost financing is justified in India for projects
such as this for the reasons discussed in paragraph 20. The remaining local
costs of US$13.56 million would be financed by the Government of Rajasthan
(GOR). The proceeds of the credit would be channelled through GOI to GOR on
standard terms as part of Central assistance provided to the State Government
for development purposes.
49.       The principal components to be financed are:   strenghtening of
extension services (US$16.54 million), upgrading training (US$1.28 million),
agricultural research (US$3.86 million), project monitoring and evaluation
(US$0.46 million), and contingencies (US$4.42 million). Physical contingen-
cies average about 4% of costs and price contingencies about 16%. To ensure
timely project implementation and facilitate early training and appointment
of critical staff, retroactive financing up to US$200,000 would be provided
from March 1, 1977 to the date of Credit signing (see paragraph 4 of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Contracts for civil works (US$2.4 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works contracts would be small and dispersed, both
geographically and over time, and would not be suitable for international com-
petitive bidding. There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry out
civil works. About 120 motor vehicles of various types (US$0.9 million) would
be required under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities
over four years. It would be difficult to ensure adequate maintenance and
spares for a variety of imported vehicles. These would, therefore, be procured
by local competitive bidding under procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association. Orders for purchase of equipment and furniture (US$0.96 million)
would be bulked wherever possible and would be purchased following satisfactory
local competitive procedures, except where valued at US$50,000 or less, when
they would be purchased by prudent shopping. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.6
million) would be purchased by individual staff, according to their prefer-
ence as they would be expected to repay the purchase price. The balance of the
project costs (US$21.7 million) would consist of local training costs (US$1.06
million), incremental salaries and travelling allowances (US$10.8 million) and
operating costs of research stations, offices and vehicles (US$9.8 million).



- 16 -
51.       Disbursement of IDA funds would be as follows:    (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures or 80% of local expenditures for equipment and vehicles; (b) 80%
of civil works costs; (c) 80% of staff training costs; and (d) 40% of total
staff costs. Disbursements against expenditures for locally procured equip-
ment and vehicles costing Rs 20,000 (about US$2,200) or less, civil works
contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 50,000 (about
US$5,500), and against staff salaries would be on the basis of certificates
of expenditure. The supporting documentation of these expenditures would not
be submitted for review but would be retained by the project authorities and
would be available for inspection by IDA during project review missions. Pro-
vision has been made for the periodic local auditing of these certificates of
expenditure. Disbursements against all other items would be fully documented.
Project Benefits and Risks
52.       The main project benefit would be an increase in yields as a con-
sequence of the impact of the new extension and research system. Experience
in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Projects currently
being implemented in the State indicates that, within two years of the intro-
duction of new methodology, more than 50% of farm families followed some or
most of the extension recommendations. It is estimated that the project would
directly benefit about 290,000 contact farmers and through them at least 1.5
million of the 2.9 million farm families living in the project area. Small
farmers with limited financial resources but excess labor would be the primary
beneficiaries of the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing resources
rather than the use of purchased inputs often too expensive for small and
marginal farmers.
53.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. However, there is no doubt that the substantial improve-
ment in the efficiency of utilization of resources, which would be brought
about by the project, would generate a high rate of return. Given the
present cropping pattern (wheat 17%, pulses 17%, lower valued cereals 43%
and other minor crops 23%), it would be reasonable to expect that by year 7,
crops yields over at least 50% of all land under food crops would increase
by an average of 30 kg per ha, or less than 4% over the "without project"
situation, giving an economic rate of return of 50%. There is little risk
that these yield increases would not be attained, since the best farmers and
research stations in Rajasthan are already obtaining much higher yields than
the current average yields. This high rate of return should, however, be
treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread,
further investments in infrastructure and services would become necessary.
54.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organi-
zation and management of extension and research services as well as on farmers'
response. Experience with ongoing projects (see paragraph 25) has already
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formula-
tion and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed



- 17 -
project is different from the ongoing activities in that it mainly concen-
trates on rainfed, rather than irrigated, areas and for this reason there is
a somewhat higher degree of risk of yield increases falling short of expecta-
tions. However, there are a significant number of improved practices and
research findings suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve
yields, even under rainfed conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas
tend to be less affluent and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even
though benefits may be lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would
still be considerable, both in economic and social terms. A second generation
risk would be faced when the success of the new methodology generates demand
for additional inputs. If this were not met, the resultant farmer frustration
could adversely affect the success of the extension effort. However, at this
juncture and for some time to come, the deficiencies in the existing network
for supplying farmers' inputs are related to the lack of demand and there is
slack in the network which can be taken up to meet additional demand. The
Project Coordination Committee, which is charged with overseeing the planning
and execution and extension effort, is also responsible for assessing seasonal
input requirements and should be able to ensure the development of arrange-
ments capable of coping with increased demand.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Rajasthan, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Association and the text of a draft Resolution
approving the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to Executive
Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Date: July 7, 1977



*  0I                                                                                  p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-   a.                             .   ..   ...      *1** n  C (C  *. . .   *
IL            -0   L o-.W'    ii  25U.0                  A              ..fI,  OSA01       -  -      1 3iv         
-.  a..                               0                      -"                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Z a   0   c  
&   Z  I                               N                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2i  : w -   C  ,IL M 0  
asC-           Z z- sw:.                                                             aV   Q SI-
2  Cl                                        WI~~~~~~~~4                                                      I ~ - V2T   A &1
21 a * ~~~~~=Xw2                   C'4a     ,- CZI"f                                    1-I
I, -g~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                C                            22:0
Li  i*O  0  Cia  VIiNOSC  CC  S o  Wu         aftOil  CO  000  *l*                 Z *A c--. --0.. 
Iii  Xl>  .in0  C  210U' WLA   aWlfli  IL-  2*14ouSNgo                 C  &M n.  0  to"   a      s. C W  .  f  -1Sb
LI  *A  .  W         a . .-CU  (i  11  It    I    aIIL   3  ' I IIA   5 A OAI      C. S~z   - 2I 
C                                  A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                             r w 
-hI I   5,09 
bI*6 S   a                  .01                                       UIO



pass 2 of 4
unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 -efer to soy year betw-.o 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 aod 1970 and for Most Recant Estimate between
1973 end 1975.
0 Braseil has bean selected as en objective coutry because of it.          isa end cooperebla problem      of regional inequality.
I"A1960 I.1951-61 average; /b 1951-60; Ic Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to l.bor force age 15 sod over;
/d  Registered appliceota for work;        Is   1962;     /f  Regiatered, not oil practicing in tha coutry;          /A   Including
nidwiveas     /h   1958;     /L  1960-62.
1970     /   RatIo of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 sod over;             /b  1967-68;     Ic Inluding nidwivee
Id 1967.
MOST RECENT ESTIKATE;       Ia  1971;     /b  Redo. of population under 15 and 60 end over to labor force ago 15 end          -ovr;    /c   1976;
Id   Including midwivee;      /a  1969-71 avercgp;       If  Population 10 yaars and over.
SSfIOS EIA     1970     /    1961-71;     /b  1971;     /a  Including nidivdvs;       Id  Total hoepitel bada incraplate.
PHILIPPINES     1970    /    Ac Percentage of soploynset;       /b  Not including private vocational echoo1a.
SRAUI n         1970    /a   Economically active Population;       lb   Hospital personnel;      /c   Inside only.
RIO, April 18, 1977
ODEINITIONS OP SOCIAL IlNDIC&5938
Lend Acne (thee ic27                                                                    Poculation oar nroin      a neeno  - Pepulatien dicidod by tuobor of practl-
Total -Tural surfaer    area conprising land ace& and inland watora.                      cin     ale  ndfuala graduate nurses,       trained" or   ce.rtifiedl-
ARrne. - Net recant eatinat.oef agricultural        r.a used teporarily er                n-rea, and ausiliary pecooncel with training or ecprionc.t
peranntly fur erpt, poatures, machot & kitchen gardens or te lie                      Pecu:lation P       P hnetal bed - Pepulatien divided by number ef bhospital
fallo.                                                                                  bd    aalal      in public and privato general and opccialiced hospital
and rhebiblitatien centers; ecliude- nuraing bunco and estoblish.enta
GNP per cacti. (US$) - ISP pen caPite     -atl-tee acurront narket pricto,                 for c..atdia1 and prevecti-a care.
calculated by cane c-nvrelon cothod as World Sank Autla        (1973-75 basin);       Per capita supply of cal    rino (7 of -evuireenta) - Cooputed icon
19 60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                              energy equivalent of net feud oupplion. avalable in country per capita
Per day;aaioe        -upln     cnpetne denrotir production       inpocto less
Peculation cad,dial etatistics                                                            eprie, an       hue .   in  toch; net aupplica e-cide      oin-l feed, oneda,
Pecultiebid-r. ciliec  - A  of July first:    if cot avilable,                    quantities uned in focd proceocing and I..... in diotrihutict; require-
*-avr.ag of two end-year cattiate_; 1960, 1971 and 1975 data.                            note were conntetd by FAO baoed on phyoieIogica1.. codo for normal
activty and health considering cnvirooente1 tnopertatrn, body weights,
Pouaindensity -por suar   .i    - jid-pear population p- square kilo-               cue and 00    dlstriheLiono of pepelatioc, and allowing 1IZ for woe te
meter (100 hecrc        fttlac.at beusebeld loon.
Population density - per square km    f cest,r land - Computed an abve for              Per capita supply of Otetei     (crane nor day) - Protein content of per
agietrlland only.                                                                capita cot oupply of food per day; cut aupply of fond ia defined as
Vital statlotlos                                                    e~~~~    ~           ~~bev;  neinn o fr all counrire  eniablinhed by USDA Econocic
Vital  t.tistfr.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~        ~    acrch Serolcee provide for a        immcc  all ..wnoce of 60 grams of
Crude birthct      c  thousand     Avrc     -A  a     Line bithba per the..oand            total protein per  ycv   ad 20 grms of actel and pulse proteIn, of
of ad-yer ppelcico  toovener  hboe icaeagoOdtnf in 1960 anod                  which 10 frng      hud beaimal protein, those standards ace lew
1970, and           -r-ea  vraga ending in 1975 for nest recent acti.tna  .             than thoce of 75 gresa, of total protein ond 23 grant of enical protein
Crude death,rats   e  thousa id avrne      - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-            cs on -oerage fur the werld, propon..d by FAO in the Third World Poond
yerpoeaie,te-er              a~riZti i   oversgon ending in 1960 and 1970 and           S-rnY.
flo-peat ovrage      ending In 1975 fec neat rccnt eatiteat.                          9er capita proteinsupyfo animal and pulse             - Protein supply of feed
Infant   -tilitty rtai f/thou) - Annual d-nthe ofi.f ante unde       ron  year            drvdfreeaiml            and1P1  pulro ngatprdy
of ag  per the...and Live birth0..                                                  lea lf.r.  th rate (1/thou)iaeo   1-4  - Accent1 dnetha per theen.d.. ag.g.o
Lifeecc     nc at birth     (r)-Avrg          umeifyernflierct-                            1-4 yeas    tocidren in thin       g  group, noggeoted      . an enIndicator of
togatbrh       usiy fiv-Year u-ctre          ending in 1960, 1970 and                   caln-tritioc.
19)75 for devloping ..oentrien
Cross. eeceoic       rat- Acreag     number of live daughter. ssoaw i1du-tioo
bear  iheneol         reprductive honed if uhe -ep-i-t- presnt            gag-        adiueted anrelleent celloa    rce     Ecol         nroicent of ati aget no
spe   f   -cfrtitty  eae,uo      Y five-year average     e.di.g in i960,               percentae of prinary schoel-age population, include- children agd
1970 and 1975 for d-voilo       co6re.fUyaehtad juated fee different langibo of prtcary edecution;
Popuiation erewih ccv(7)-toic          - Coopuoud ennufi growth eaten of cid-             for countrien ctb oivereal education, enroll cnt cay occed 100%
Year pepul4tion foe 1950-60, 1960-70ad1970-75.                                          afnce ouco papil    are below cr above the official school ae
Pecuatio greib   tai (7. - urban -CevPoted like growth rato of total               Adjusted enrollcent cctio - aecendasho            - Conputed cc abort;
peuato,diffeenv ...ftiitlons of erban areas nay affect compara-                         econdary education requires at ieaot four veare of approved primary
bility ofndtamon       oec     _r.                                                      instruction, providesgenl          vctoa       or teacher training
Urban poulatiec(. o-f Ltetl) - Riatio of urban to total population,                        biu     ie    for PuPils of 12 to 17 year     of age; c-crepndence
different definitiena of urban ocean.nY affect        -opa-bility of date               coures are generally encluded.
anog    _ontrieolerso a                                                                         abe      rnc prvdd (first and nec-n le-nl) - Total yeara of
AA es2tructr er  Hroe-t) - Children (I-t4 yeare), worhieg-uge (15-44 yearn),               scvln,a         nedr       ee,vctoa             notructtin cay be par-
and retired   65 yearo aed over) an percentages uf      id-year population.             tially or completelyeclded
Agoa docendencyratto - iatic of popolation coder 15 and 65 and over to                  Voca.tlecal Itnrollnent (7. of secondary) - Vfoc.tiena.l   institutions
,bhec.     ees1    through 6b.                                                          icid      ehnia,idsrial or other prograna which opertat
cE,nceic decendencp ratio - Ratlo of population under 1) end 65 and ove                   itedpendnl      or en depeemcno        ocoayrnttten
to tbe labor force in gag group of 15-64 yecrs.                                       Aduljt,litre.rac r tat  WI   - Litertat  a delta (able to read and write) an
famil planning - accepron (cunulnitve         t~hou)  -Cumulative nube- of                perc; eata    of total adult Ppoplatin aged 15 Years and voer.
arceptero of bteth-control de       _o ceder aeices of natinal family
PI ien  g program  since inception.                                                   Seusina
FamIly plannhIna us    re (7  f marrIed women)- uPercoctages ofrcncetd                   escd per teen (erban) - Av-rge number of person           Per roc in
woe  fcid-bea:rIng ae   1544peae)wh       ce    irth-noteLdeices                 occupied convectional d-el1ingo     In urbacar..an; dwellings e-lude
te all earned womn in name age Sc-p.                                                    ne-emnn          truc turee and anecc-Pied parts.
E.pl.y,..t                                                        11,t~~~~~~~~~~~OcupIed dvellls" withou  pip d water (.) - Occupied c..n-tni..caI
Toalclabore                                                                               dwellingsn inE.mi.ly..iv   -os,~  urban and cucL area  wIthout  ain-d0 or outnide piped
Total labr force (heucand)  iocncciclly ectiv  pernens,including          voter facilities as peccentngo of all eccupied dnic
amd forces and utmapluyed but encluding housewive, otudenta, etc.;                  Acstoe      criIy(.caldw              lng)-Coenr i.lnadwltg
defiittea  i  varcuecounriesarenet  oepcabi.                       w   th  etletifip   n  Ivngqrtreanprcent of total dwelltnga in
Labor force    in agrielIture (7) - Agreucturual     lbor force (in farmIng,              urban and rural ae
feroocry, huottng and fishing) aspercentage of total Labor forte.                     he.ra1 deel 1icca connected to elo-tritity (7.) - Cooputed an uhov         for
Unonpleyedl (7   of Labor fern0) -U.Ilomp ald are usually defined asrural dwelIngs eny.
persons wo are able and willici to tkhe a job, nout of a job o 
givon dap, r_iamd out of a jcb, and ovnking week fur a spocifiedCeomtn
ci   e      period co -eceding one   e-k; cay cut he comparable beicce.n              hai eevr         c   rth  upo   )-All types of      ecirafor rodle broad..
coun.tries doe to different defiiiotlns of enoploynd and noe.r.e of                     c.aer     to general pubi  per thousand nf Pp.peition; sceldna
dat, e.g.     nv- p1oYe-t office tclatitatc, aopie     -rveyn,   ompeinory              uc1icecoed enceivers in coutries and in Yecra when regintratico             of
aomplovote in...rcnce.                                                                  radio onto wan in effect; data foe recent Yearn eny net be co,parahle
acccetcon tries abolished Ilcenslng.
Income Rli .rikutlen - Percetage of private in--c (both in c-K and                      Pance a      e(e     ho    o)-Psegrcrs                coopriae omtorcerr
hind) received by eibbed       5%, richest 20%. poorest 20%, and pooret                  ..ecting Ieee thaneih       pean;eoudeahlnon                 err 
407. of hc...nhelde.                                                                    cilitary vehicle..
ilectrietty (bob/ye Pee cap) -Annual vns.u.ptitonof induntria1, con-
Distrtcib  no     a d wo      i     P- Pretagen ci lend owned by coalthiest               eerca.L.,publlc     and prIvate  electr.icty  in kilu..ati bourn per capita;
10% cod pocees.t LO% of land onr,generally based on production data, without allowance                                                                fur   .eans in
grids hut allowing for iports and eapocts of clectricity.
Health and Sotritio-Nwpit(c/rp                                                                              rIn        Pee capita    .. annul clnuptivn  in kilograna
Popultion beer physician      - Population divided by number  ci peacticlog               etnrdfo           eetcproduction plus net         ioPoeto of     S-prin t.
phyaicinan quelifitad iron a oedina1 school a t universtry level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOIC _WEXT 0IAA
GEP PM CAPITA IN 1975     Ul  190
GROSS NATION   PRODUCT 3II 1975/76 b/                                                   BAI. RATE o0  G   d (N. constant prics) .  /
us$ Blnn                                                1960/61-1964165     1965/66-1969/70     t170/71-1974/7s
GNP at Market Prices             82.8        100.0                                           3.8                 3.7                 2.6
Gross Docgstio Investmnt        46.7          20.1
Gross National Saving            16.0         19.3
Current Account Balance         -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5          -1.8
OUTPUT, * LAN! 7C0 AND PRODUmITY IN 1971
Rila.,ddd (at Jafotr cost)          Labor Porc                 A. Per Worker
cst Biln,            %                 llKil.    16             m  l   % of lIational Avrage
Agriculture                      24.5             46.6                130.0   72.1             188            64
Industry                         11.8             22.3                 20.2    11.2            582           199
Services                         16              31A1                 -A.2    16.7             sU            186
Total/average                    52.6            100.0                180.4   100.0            292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                       Central Goverment
(B - Bin)                              of of C3P       (RB    Bli)             % of GoP
197-5776      1975/76   tg75/74t975/76                 t975/          1975/76 1977/7451975/76
Current Receipts                  133.34         18.5          16.7                       79.11          11.0          9.8
Current Expenditures              118.77         16. s                                      09                         8,8
Current Surplus/Defioit            14-57          2.0           1.4                       9.06            1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures ./            54-27          7.5          6.2                        40.75           5.6          4.6
External Asistance (net)           13.89          1.9           1.3                       13.89           1.9          1.3
NO10NS. CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66     9   72    1972/7     197fl/74   1974/7s    1975/76     September 1975    September 1976
Billion Rs outstanding at and of period)
Money and Quasi Money                      61.4      122.4      142.2      169.1      187.2      213.6          199.0             238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector               40.8       69.o       82.5       92.9      102.6      108.5          112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Seotor              28.1       64.4       76.0       90.1      109.5      134.2          106.0             143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                      January 1976      Janry 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GOP          24.0       26.4       27.9       27.1       26.2       27.9
Wholesale Prioe Index
(1961/62 = 100)                        131.6     188.4      207.1      254.2      313.0      302.8           290.0             320.5
Annul peroentage changes in.
Wholesale Prio Index                       7.7        4.0        9.9       22.7       23-1                                        10.5 fl
Bank Credit to Public Seotor               12.9       21.3       1g.6       12.6       10.4        5.7                              4 7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8       13.6       18.0       18.5       21.5       22.5                             24.6
A/ The per oapita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Q2/ Quick Estimates.
/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
/   Transfere between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
N/ Net bank credit to Govermnent Sector.
A/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



zannc DirE.OHAN! DA                                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
I&UJCZ ay PA           U           198          in4L            4        19%,77 imw"                                 W"      197 /74.191/76)
Naports of Goods                    5,239       4,174        4,555         5,400              Sugar                      542          9
ports of Geods                    -5,971       -5,794       -4,5         -5,                  Jute Manufacturea          31T          8
TX     hia                         - 7It -1                 -,S              450               e                         249          6
218 (net) .1/                        m.a.        a...         m.a.        a...                 Aette    tiles            415         10
ho     Orm                 206          5
R1s0<b 0Ama,                               a..     .           m.a.       a.a                  oneer        Goods        391         10
Interest FP       (               -   25a -z0t)  32 - 0       22 l0                           Total                    539          100
O   rh Fter PAmo      (not)         260'.        r.^.         A.l.        A.G.
Jo'k transfws Y                     R.&.         n.a.     t    a.         n.&                                               Al
laulen  a on xt    Aoo*nA.           e.g      .   a... a.                   ..         U         MIL -M, MUR0 31. 1976
USS Billion
Offioial Aid
Difbu   rsoasts                 1,249        1.76        2,526       2,050                RepO1abl* In foreig  orency           12.5
Amortizatimn                    - 459       - 519        - 516       - 560                Repq'mble tbrouA azport of goodo       0.7
raensaotio   with                      75         515          205       - 565                Total Outstanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other It_m                        205           80          559      1,100                m/l
1    iC2i RUXO POII i976/77           15.5  peroet 
Inareas  La    ere (-)              -105           58        - 794      -1.495
Gro.. Resres ( n yar)               1,416        1,576       2,172       3,667                ID    /ML  L   .  DNemosr 31. 1976    (Ut Min.)
Net Reserves (mad ye)              1,541          785        1,552       3,202
IRD        IDA
Fuel and Reaated Mterials
Outstanding sed Disbursed           452.7     3208.4
Import.                              720        1,451        1,417       1,625                UndisJ  sed                         510.3     1140.5
of whiees Petroeum                719        1,451        1,417       1,625                Outstandin  imal ding
15xpert                               20            X6          41         *.-6.              Undisbosed                          963.0     4348.9
of whihs Petroleu                   16          17           22         ne
Prior to aid-oDsaom r 19T7    a    01 .00  -  Rs 7.5                                           After end Juns 1972    a  Flating Rato
Rs 1.00  -     U50.133333                                    Spot Rate March 31, 1976
lid_Dooeber 1971 to          -a   31.O00   - Rs 7.27927                                                  appre. USIJ1.00 - R.    8.80475
and Jun  1972                   Ns 1.00  .  JStO.157376                                                appror. Rs 1.00 = 1St   0.113575
F Astimated.
J,/ Included with 'All other Itma'.
j/ Aid end trade figus converted to US dallers using e*xhange rates as indiested in inside front
ooer of this report or notes to individual tables.
,/ Including gsents.
1/  Amortization and interest paymWts excluding IlW trasmotions) am a peresatsp of ereoandise export.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                                  I/
Credit No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose                           (Net of Cancellation)
BANK     IDA     Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                         1,089.2
43 Credits fully disbursed                                                  2,344.8
614-IN       1969   India     Tarai Seeds                            13.0      -            3.7
203-IN       1970   India     Punjab Agricultural Credit              -        27.5         3.6
226-IN       1971   India     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr.         -        24.4         0.6
250-IN       1971   India     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit          -        35.0         3.8
264-IN       1971   India     Cochin II Fertilizer                    -        20.0         0.8
267-IN       1971   India     Wheat Storage                           -         5.0         3.7
278-IN       1972   India     Mysore Agricultural Credit              -        40.0         1.2
294-IN       1972   India     Bihar Agricultural Markets              -        14.0        U.1
312-IN       1972   India     Population                              -        21.2         8.7
342-IN       1972   India     Education                               -        12.0        11.1
356-IN       1972   India     IDBI                                    -        25.0        12.4
377-IN       1973   India     Power Transmission III                  -        85.0        27.6
378-IN       1973   India     Mysore Agricultural Markets             -         8.0         7.2
902-IN       1973   ICICI     Industry DFC X                          70.0     -            9.2
390-IN       1973   India     Bombay Water Supply                      -       55.0        37.8
392-IN       1973   India     Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit       -        38.0         7.4
403-IN       1973   India     Telecommunications V                     -       80.0        15.6
427-IN       1973   India     Calcutta Urban Development               -       35.0        15.1
440-IN       1973   India     Bihar Agricultural Credit               -        32.0        17.6
456-IN       1974   India     hP Apple Processing & Marketing          -       13.0        10.7
481-IN       1974   India     Trombay IV                               -       50.0        18.3
1011-IN       1974   India     Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                 52.0     -           40.3
482-IN       1974   India     Karnataka Dairy                         -        30.0        29.6
502-IN       1974   India     Rajasthan Canal CAD                      -       83.0        56.6
520-IN       1974   India     Sindri Fertilizer                        -       91.0        30.2
521-IN       1974   India     Rajasthan Dairy                          -       27.7        27.4
522-IN       1974   India     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                     -       16.4        15.8
526-IN       1975   India     Drought Prone Areas                      -       35.0        28.8
1079-IN       1975   India     IFFCO Fertilizer                       109.0     -           88.1
1097-IN       1975   India     Industry DFC XI                        100.0     -           57.3
532-IN       1975   India     Godavari Barrage Irrigation              -       45.0        32.4
540-IN       1975   India     ARC Credit                               -       75.0        32.1
541-IN       1975   India     West Bengal Agrc. Dev.                   -       34.0        31.0
562-IN       1975   India     Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD             -       24.0        21.1
572-IN       1975   India     Rural Electrification                    -       57.0        54.6
582-IN       1975   India     Railways XIII                            -      110.0        46.0
585-IN       1975   India     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply               -       40.0        39.5
598-IN       1975   India     Fertilizer Industry                      -      105.0        97.5
604-IN       1975   India     Power Transmission IV                    -      150.0       150.0
609-IN       1975   India     Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.             -        4.0         4.0
610-IN       1976   India     Integrated Cotton Development            -       18.0        18.0
616-IN       1976   India     Industrial Imports XI                    -      200.0         7.0
1251-IN(TW)   1976   India     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation              145.0     -          145.0
1260-IN       1976   India     IDBI II                                 40.0     -           40.0
1273-IN       1976   India     National Seed                           25.0     -           25.0
1313-IN       1976   India     Telecommunications VI                   80.0     -           60.2
1335-IN       1976   India     Bombay Urban Transport                  25.0     -           25.0
680-IN       1977   India     Kerala Agric. Dev.                               30.0        30.0
682-IN       1977   India     Orissa Agric. Dev.                               20.0        20.0
685-IN       1977   India     Singrauli Thermal                      1        150.0       150.0
687-IN       1977   India     Madras Urban Dev.                                24.0        24.0
695-IN       1977   India     Gujarat Fisheries                                 4.0         4.0*
1394-IN(TW)   1977   India     Gujarat Fisheries                       14.0                 14,0*
Total                                                            1,762.2  4,338.0
of which has been repaid                                         789.2     27.0
Total now outstanding                                              973.0  4,311.0
Amount Sold                             114.6
of which has been repaid            111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                     973.0  4,311.0
Total undisbursed                                                  493.8    937.8     1,431.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan     Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -        0.2
19>3-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6      2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1      3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -        6.6
TOTAL                           49.6       8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                             6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                          13.0        -       13.0
Cancelled                        6.2       0.7       6.9
Now Held                        24.4       6.5      30.9
Undisbursed                      5.6        -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
I/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,432 million as of May 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to com-
mitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Cr. No. 715     Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
All the above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credits 540 and 715 are a continuation nationwide of the previous program of
agricultural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart
from initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due
to the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267     Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work for silos is
nearly completed and some silo construction has begun. Staff training is
also in progress.
Cr. No. 456     Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measureo have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found substantial improve-
ment in project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Ln. No. 1313    Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For Power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment. Under the Sindri project plant con-
struction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule except
for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some materials.
Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978. The anti-
cipated cost to complete the project is presently running within budget. The
IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as feedstock.
Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being ordered,
and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase
the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The project has
encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the
Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not
materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments.
The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976, and more than
10% of the loan amount had been authorized by mid-May 1977.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976. Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been
slower than anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year
to allow completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully
committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected)
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; Us$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18. 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:   September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977
(proposed); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 1, 1977 (proposed); Closing Date: September 30,
1983



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 526     Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal]
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of April 1977, orders
had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders
had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582     Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project-is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned,
having handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in
progress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project
are under way.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 22, 1977 (expected); Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 28, 1977
(proposed); Closing Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the prolect
Less than a year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Rajasthan (GOR)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
June 1976. October 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 29, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 31, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1977
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:     Special Conditions
(a) GOR to establish Project Coordination Committee
by December 31, 1977 (para. 33).
(b) GOR to provide housing and office facilities to the
field level agricultural extension staff as necessary
(para. 42).
(c) GOR to provide credit facilities to extension staff
to purchase suitable means of transport and to provide
financial incentive to ensure optimum use of these means
(para. 42).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) GOR to formulate a program to strengthen research
facilities at the University (see para 46);
(e) GOR to carry out project monitoring and evaluation
and submit results to the Association annually
(see para 47).



IBRD 12538
t f < A e c.os.#ll. 1,^+ 72-  74-                                   76 JANUARY  1977
.-*'  1> N  choa                               INDIA
Pl                          lj                              >^ 9 8^ .k.......... n  >s RAJASTHAN
RAJAS-THA   '          AGRICULTURAL       EXTENSION       AND    RESEARCH      PROJECT
lrda        0a    o  25  50  75  100  125  150  175  200
Z    vsevr   L *  |  | |                               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Momn Research Stations
KlLOMETERS                                A A  Research Substations
\ #   O                             f 30-                      A   Gram Sevok Training Center  30 -
fAtOA I a a {~CX                 Goagogo                            Project D,stricts
/f) ; k ! t1      0   State Capital
f\5.Lk             /                                @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ District Headquarters
sfilonl=  N  !       *   .,            o   Other Towns
70-           |    ./               V~~~~~~~~~~~~ \_,  sJ ~~~~~~~~-------- D,strict Boundaries
|Sate  Boundaries
>   < /  .w:  <. \    ----- -24.7  --~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
C~~~
PI, \B I                              ,KANER           'i\_
I C H U R U c,   JHUNJHUNU   t.
-28-                         j                                                (*hj-j                    28--
I \  _-_  --'                  z             '79 ALWARb I--
J A I S A L M E R    1                     S". Naoar         -AIPU          R       BhorotBR
.  X   '  N  A G  A  U  R  I    y      }  BHARATP6Q
\ _ _ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~J O D H P U R                                URv@(me  AI( 
SAWA
I,.~~~~~J
-26- i B A R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M E R '0oE Chn> 6
26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
SI   \P A L I      BHILWARA
t . SI ROHI                               ) (
<   {    ^<g~~Ud.ipur,cHITTC)qGAR     rJhlwr     _ 
24                                         V                                                           24-
D GAPUR 
Tii  bh,, -ari ri   'a ihaaiap dno,
kh,,idkdiJflioier s -d  h,BANSWA
707 72                                          74 \, .                  76-                     78



