Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25182
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39830)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
December 24, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Central Europe and Baltics Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Estonian Kroon (EEK)
EEK 0.064 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = EEK 15.69
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AICC                  Agricultural Information Coordinating Center
ARAE                  Association of Rural Advisors in Estonia
ARIB                  Agricultural Registry and Information Board
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CAU                   Contract Administration Unit
EAP                   Estonia Agriculture Project
ERC                   Environmental Research Center
EU (Phare)            Poland, Hungary Assistance to Restructuring their Economies (EU Assistance Program
for Central Europe and the Baltic Countries)
EU                    European Umion
GOE                   Government of Estonia
LAB                   Local Amelioration Bureau
LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
LWAs                  Land and Water Associations
MOA                   Ministry of Agriculture
MOE                   Ministry of Environment
MTR                   Mid-term Review
NAETF                 National Agricultural Extension Task Force
NLB                   National Land Board
PASDF                 Private Advisory Services Development Fund
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PRA                   Participatory Rural Appraisal
PSC                   Project Steering Committee
PSR                   Project Status Report
QAG                   Quality Assurance Group
RDF                   Rural Development Fund
RIC                   Rural Information Center
SAPARD                Special Accession Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
TBO                   Title Book Office
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph R. Goldberg/Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader     Gotz Schreiber



ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             14
6. Sustainability                                                                 16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                18
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                        23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                 33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             34
Annex 8. Statistical Data used for the Economic and Financial Evaluation          35
Annex 9. Quantitative Information on Individual Project Component                 44



Project ID: P008403                                     |Project Name: AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Team Leader: Gotz A. Schreiber                           TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: AGRICULTURE PROJECT                           L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39830
Country/Department: ESTONIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (38%); Central government
administration (32%); Agricultural extension and
research (30%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/03/1993                             Effective: 12/07/1996        03/04/1997
Appraisal:  06/09/1995                               MTR: 06/30/1998            10/09/1999
Approval:  03/05/1996                              Closing: 12/31/2001         06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Republic of Estonia/Ministries of Agriculture and of Environment
Other Partners:  European Union
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                            Basil Kawalsky
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                                Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:  Gotz Schreiber                            Brian Berrnan
ICR Primary Author:  Raffaele Suppa
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The specific objectives of the project were to increase rural incomes and to stimulate the
rural economy. The project was designed to strengthen farmers' planning and implementing
capacity while improving the responsiveness of rural service agencies to farmers' needs. The aim
was, thus, to support the implementation of the agricultural sector strategy of the Govemment of
Estonia (GOE) through selected investment in land reform, farm drainage rehabilitation, land use
management, rural advisory services, and food quality control.
The objectives were clear, realistic and in line with GOE's priorities and the Bank's
country assistance and sector strategies that supported poverty alleviation through productivity
increases, participatory approaches to development, and institution building to enhance
sustainability. Active farmer participation was an innovative and essential feature of this project.
The project conformed to the Bank's lending strategy for Estonia which included strong attention
to environmental issues and increased assistance to the poorer regions of the country. GOE was
fully committed to the project, including its focus on poverty and natural resources protection.
Although the relevant institutions were considered able to expand their activities, financial
resources and equipment were limited. The Bank's support for the project was, therefore,
justified as a response to GOE's commitment and efforts to promoting rural growth, employment
and poverty alleviation while protecting the natural resource base.
The project was not considered exempt from risks. Integration of conservation and
development efforts was required, and coordination of interventions in crop, livestock and
forestry production was necessary. These issues were adequately addressed at appraisal by
providing technical assistance and training, and by calling for a review of progress after two years
of project implementation and modifications if considered necessary. Intensive Bank supervision
was foreseen at appraisal.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during project implementation, and components
were maintained as foreseen at appraisal.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components: (i) Land Reform, including the National
Geodetic Network, Cadastral Surveying, the State-owned Rural Lands Disposal Policy and
Institutional Strengthening; (ii) Farm Drainage Rehabilitation; (iii) Land Use Management; (iv)
Agricultural Advisory Services; (v) Food Quality and Veterinary Laboratories; and (vi) Project
Management. They matched the project objectives and were within the administrative and
financial management capacities of the main implementing agencies, i.e., the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Environment (MOE).
3.4 Revised Components:
Without changing project objectives or components, physical targets were revised and
fund allocations were adjusted accordingly in the course of implementation. The Bank also
agreed to an extension of the loan closing date by six months, i.e., to 30 June 2002, to allow
completion of several activities under the Land Reform and Advisory Service components.
-2-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time of the project's approval.
Peer reviewers and Bank decision-makers endorsed the project design and objectives which were
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which, among other things, aimed at
supporting the development of a dynamic private sector, improving the existing public
infrastructure and alleviating the pockets of poverty that had developed during the early transition
period, and at raising overall living standards.
As foreseen at appraisal, the project faced several risks. They included: (i) farmers'
comnnitmnent and ability to pay their share for the drainage rehabilitation program; (ii) farmers'
willingness to pay for private advisory services; (iii) slow implementation of the land reform
program; and (iv) a longer than expected project implementation period. In fact, farmer
commitment to the drainage rehabilitation program turned out to be very high, and beneficiaries
contributed their share to project costs. Although the subsidy reduction for advisory services
contracts was temporarily suspended in 2000, following two consecutive poor agricultural years
in 1998 and 1999 (severe drought and heavy flooding, respectively), it has been steadily reduced
again since then. The risk of experiencing implementation bottlenecks was addressed through the
early and timely provision of adequate technical assistance and training, including through
effectively utilized parallel financing by the Dutch Government for farm consolidation and field
road rehabilitation in drainage rehabilitation areas, and by setting up a Project Management Unit
(PMU) with experience gained under the European Union's Assistance Programme for Central
Europe and the Baltic Countries (EU Phare). In spite of some initial difficulties caused by delayed
GOE budget allocations, quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomelachievement of objective:
After a somewhat slow start, particularly regarding the cadastral survey work, and despite
lagging disbursements caused by late provision of counterpart funds in 1996 and 1997, project
activities as foreseen at appraisal were successfully implemented. All physical targets established
at appraisal were achieved or surpassed, most impressively in the Land Reform and the Drainage
Rehabilitation components. The Land Reform component has helped provide the ownership and
institutional basis for the development of land markets to operate. All the equipment for the Food
Quality and Veterinary Control laboratories has been procured and installed and is operating at
very high rates of utilization and efficiency, and the training activities have been completed at full
satisfaction of the participants. The investment and training program implemented under this
component has allowed Estonia's laboratories to be accredited by the European Union, a critical
aspect of qualifying for full EU membership. The programs established under the Advisory
Services component continue to operate effectively, and new initiatives have been launched to
reach a larger rural clientele through internet-based approaches. Farmers' satisfaction with the
quality of the services provided is very high. The administrative capacity developed to manage
the advisory services is now being utilized to administer the EU's farm support payments as well.
The project has also made a positive impact on policy, institutions and behavioral
standards. In pursuing its objectives, the project adopted a demand-driven approach, particularly
under the farm drainage rehabilitation and the advisory services components. The project is
-3 -



noteworthy for its strong focus on quality rather than on simply quantitative targets, for its
pronounced emphasis on learning by doing, and for the flexibility applied, particularly after the
mid-term review, in modifying implementation arrangements to reflect experience gained as well
as changing circumstances in the rural economy. Major project implementation indicators in
physical terms are given in Annex 8, Table 1. Coordination among the implementing agencies
MOA and MOE has been effective. In conclusion, the outcome of the project as a whole, both in
respect to its development objectives and its physical implementation, is rated highly satisfactory.
4.1.1 Increase Rural Incomes and Stimulate the Rural Economy through Rural
Entrepreneurship:
Dairy farmiing was and remains the dominant farming system in Estonia and with the
support provided by the project was able to develop into a profitable subsector, with average net
farm incomes increasing by an estimated 35% (Annex 3). The project, as envisaged at appraisal,
did not directly target the poor as defined in the Bank's guidelines. It did, however, address rural
poverty indirectly through interventions which accelerated the development of a rural land market,
increased agriculture/livestock production and farm incomes in the drainage rehabilitation areas,
improved farmer know-how on farming technology and farm management practices, developed
grassroots rural institutions, and improved food and livestock quality standards to protect
consumers and simultaneously satisfy the quality requirements for exports in line with EU
regulations.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Land Reform
This component, implemented by the National Land Board (NLB), under the Ministry of
Environment (MOE), was designed to promote private ownership of land and the development of
a land market. These objectives have been fully achieved. The land restitution program was
successful. There were, however, people unable or unwilling to occupy and develop their land,
and a fairly high percentage of potential owners of rural land therefore opted to take
compensation instead. Large areas were therefore retained by the State and were either rented
out by the municipalities or remained unused. A registration system allowing sales, leases and
mortgages had to be developed to ensure that eventually the land would be fully utilized by those
willing and able to use it productively. The SAR specifically quoted three objectives: (a)
restitution and privatization; (b) use of land to obtain long-term credit; and (c) exit and entry into
fanning. The component included three sub-components: the National Geodetic Network,
Cadastral Surveying, and the State-owned Lands Disposal Policy. There was a slow start-up to
this component, and the Government used mainly its own funds to proceed with survey work until
the problems (concerning the contracting for surveys under the project's procedures) were
effectively dealt with during the MTR.
Land reform in Estonia has had a market impact on the economic use of land and, thus, on
the economy as a whole. There are still some delays in the Title Book Offices (TBOs), and the
anomalous situation continues where buildings are registered by a different agency. However, the
number of registered transactions, including mortgages, is steadily increasing and the value of
land, including agricultural land, is rising much more rapidly than inflation. Farmers are managing
-4 -



to get out of debt, and the more entrepreneurial ones are acquiring additional land through lease
and/or purchase. The main objectives of the land reform component have been achieved,
surpassing SAR targets. Overall, the outcome of this component is rated highly satisfactory. A
more detailed description of the implementation experience of the three sub-components is given
below.
4.2.1.1 National Geodetic Network
A total of 5,000 geodetic points were to be surveyed over a three-year period. The work
has been completed, and the geodetic network has been established. There are 13 first-order
points, and 7 of these are included in the Euref system connecting neighbouring countries. A
further 199 points of second order were completed in 1998. Work commenced on third-order
points thereafter and was completed in 2001 with 4,341 points at an average distance of 5 km
between points. The coordinates are freely available on the NLB web-site (www.maaamet.ee)
and are adequate for all survey work currently being undertaken in Estonia. The NLB, with some
help from bilateral donors, carried out and completed this work without project financing or direct
project support. The loan funds identified for this activity were reallocated to other components.
4.2.1.2 Cadastral Surveying
At completion, the project had covered a total of 169,943 ha of land registered in the
Cadastre, representing 13,263 properties actually surveyed and registered. This significantly
exceeds the targets of 150,000 ha and 6,000 properties specified in the SAR. The work was done
under a total of 96 individual surveying contracts (so-called 'L' contracts) awarded competitively
to private surveyors, and the project thereby helped promote the development of a very
competitive surveying industry out of the privatized regional offices of the formerly state-owned
Est-Survey. In addition, to speed up the disposal of unclaimed and state-owned land and the
development of the land market, 26 so-called 'S' contracts were awarded after the MTR to
provide complete maps of municipalities showing land ownership, free land, land awaiting
restitution, land available for lease or sale, etc. These contracts covered an additional 329,972
hectares. All field work contracted has been carried out, and there have been no problems with
the quality of work performed.
A total of 2,961,715 ha of land are now registered in the Cadastre, representing 68% of
the country's land area. Activities in regions of the South and East and in the island of Hiiumaa
have progressed particularly well, with registration coverage now ranging from 73% to 84% of all
land. Progress has been slowest in Saaremaa and Harjumaa, where coverage rates at project
closing were 56% and 50%, respectively (Annex 9, Graph 1). In these counties project activity
was particularly intensified in 2001 and 2002 in a successful effort to promote owner interest and
to accelerate registration. An important outcome of the project has been a great increase in the
amount of land identified since 2001 as 'free agricultural land' and 'free forest land'. This land
previously had no official owner, but much that has been identified has been sold at auction to
raise public revenue, bring land into productive use and meet the needs of local farmers for more
land. The objective of simplifying land reform and titling procedures has been successfully
accomplished. The procedures are now well and widely known, and land is being registered in
both the NLB offices and the TBOs without problem.
-5-



Very few Loan funds were used under this component up to the beginning of 1999, mainly
due to what were perceived to be unduly complicated contracting procedures and to contractors
submitting excessively expensive bids in the apparent expectation that World Bank funds were
ample and the NLB would not object to high bids. In addition, there were difficulties in that
municipalities had neither the understanding or the resources to carry out the preparatory work
required of them. These issues were successfully addressed by the NLB and the Bank during the
MTR, and work progress and Loan utilization increased significantly thereafter. A quality
monitoring effort initiated in response to an MTR recommendation has also proven to be very
beneficial. It has been a remarkable achievement by the contracting officer and the management
consulting firm to complete all the tasks required under the project within the two and a half years
since the MTR.
4.2.1.3 State-owned Rural Land Disposal Policy
Studies were conducted, policies decided, and an amendment to the Land Reform Act
satisfactorily dealing with this issue was passed and enacted in March 1999. As noted above, the
identification and mapping of unclaimed and state-owned land through 'S' contracts awarded
after the MTR greatly helped in establishing reliable information on land available for disposal and
thereby facilitated the acceleration of the disposal program.
4.2.1.4 Land Markets
Until the time of the MTR, the disposal of rural land was slow. There had been a financial
crisis in Russia in 1997, followed by two very poor agricultural years in 1998 and 1999 due to
poor weather and the financial problems. As a consequence, there was little demand for farm
land, prices were very low, and banks were not interested in lending against farm land as
collateral. Only efficient and dedicated farmers survived these difficult years, and since then land
markets have rapidly gained vibrancy, including in rural areas. There was. a 46% rise in the
number of land transactions between 1999 and 2000 and a 10% rise in 2001. The 'S' contracts
are making a substantial impact on land markets and land use, because they identify "free" land
that can be sold or put up for auction. There is active demand, although varying considerably by
location. Municipalities may rent out free land until it is sold, but both they and the NLB are very
careful not to flood the market with land that can be purchased under favorable terms from the
government because this would have a detrimental impact on the private land market and the
developing mortgage market.
One remaining disincentive to more effective and widespread registration of individual
ownership rights is rooted in a peculiarity of the prevailing system of land tax administration. The
Central Government pays the land taxes to the municipalities for any land whose ownership is
unclear, and this provides little incentive for individuals to complete purchases and registration or
to occupy restituted land. It also weakens the incentive for municipalities to push known owners
to register their land, because it is easier to obtain payment from the Government than to collect
taxes from many individual owners.
-6-



The busiest sector of the real estate market relates to buildings in the major cities.
Registration in the Title Book Offices (TBOs), which deal with immovable property, is rapidly
increasing. By the beginning of 2002 there were 232,093 properties that had undergone first
registration and a total of 547,204 registrations in all since the offices opened in 1993.
Registrations increased by 77% in 1999, 51% in 2000, and 43% in 2001. The increases in sales
are matched by increases in the number of mortgages, and it is clear that the land market and real
estate based investment in Estonia are growing much healthier. (Other TBO activities, such as the
development of valuation methods, the urban sector, and training, have been addressed by
bilateral donors, but there are some areas that could still be improved -- notably the consolidation
of the still separate registration of buildings and of land in different agencies.)
There are very few remaining inhibitions to the operation of the land market. Cadastre
offices are well managed and fully computerized. Infornation is readily available on their
web-site which contains all the information on the current status of land and any geodetic
information and plans that are required by contractors. There are few delays at Cadastre offices,
which are staffed with suitable numbers of well-qualified staff working in a modem environment.
The TBOs are generally fully equipped and coping with the ever increasing workload. However,
delays in registration are still common (up to 6 months). The TBOs and the Cadastre offices can
get information from the other via Intranet sites. The Cadastre offices are not self-funding and
consider themselves providing a public service to the community. The sections dealing with
topographic maps and geodetic control networks are not expected to cover costs. Fees charged
for checking surveys and issuing information extracts cost about 120 EEK per parcel; this covers
only part of the cost, but it is still considered important to keep fees low enough to encourage
use, rather than avoidance, of the system.
Information from the Rural Development Fund (RDF) and the NLB provides interesting
insights into land market activity. Many people are holding on to their land, even though they
have no intention of using it, in anticipation of Estonia's joining the EU when they expect a large
increase in land values. Other than this there seems to be little active speculation. Some farmers
are prospering and expanding by leasing land from municipalities or individuals and by buying any
extra land available. These also tend to be making most use of mortgage facilities for investment.
The rest are primarily farming for subsistence and small profits. It appears that normal market
forces are operating well.
One of the justifications for the project was the anticipated savings to the economy
inherent in farmers' anticipated ability to obtain low-interest term credit based on land as
collateral, and although borrowing based on land mortgages is only attractive for the bigger farms,
this objective is being realized. There has been a great change since the beginning of the project,
and banks are now charging reasonable rates for long-term loans, with averages between 5% and
8% depending on the type of loan. The RDF also lends for land purchases either through the
established commercial banks or directly to the buyer.
4.2.2 Farm Drainage Rehabilitation
At project completion, the drainage systems for 81,035 ha of Estonia's approximately
- 7.



650,000 ha of drained agricultural land have been rehabilitated at 76 different sites (Annex 9,
Table 1). Even if the two pilots in Rapla (2,546 ha) and Tartu (1,670 ha) counties, implemented
prior to project commencement, are excluded, achievements considerably exceed the SAR target
of 60,000 ha. 2,742 km of open drains and 125 km of subsurface drains were rehabilitated, both
more than anticipated at appraisal. Designs for 10 additional sites were completed in 2000, but
lack of funding precluded the start of works at these locations, and GOE is now looking for other
means (including EU support funds) to finance the continuation of this very successful program.
From 1998 to 2000, the Netherlands provided financial and technical assistance for a pilot
project in two communities that dovetailed farm consolidation and rural road construction with
the drainage rehabilitation program funded by the project. Landowners in the two communities
welcomed the efficiency gains derived from the consolidation of their previously scattered plots
and the simultaneous rehabilitation of field roads, and the GOE is now considering ways to
replicate this effort elsewhere at an affordable cost.
Farmer involvement and grassroots institution building under this component have been
impressive. As against an SAR forecast of 60, a total of 104 Land and Water Associations
(LWAs), with close to 1,400 active members, participate actively in the rehabilitation works and
have assumed substantial routine maintenance responsibilities for local drainage facilities and field
roads, including at sites not rehabilitated under the Project. They are federated in, and supported
by, a National Union of LWAs and by seven county-level Unions. In 2001, they contributed a
combined total of EEK 3.46 million in cash or in kind for system maintenance, compared with
EEK 7.01 -million from MOA. (The original financing arrangement called for a 20% contribution
from both GOE and project beneficiaries. In March 1998, the Loan Agreement was amended to
increase the WB contribution to 80%, while taking farmers' contributions out of the tendering and
contracting procedures, as they were providing their contribution primarily in kind.) The outcome
of this component is rated highly satisfactory.
4.2.3 Land Use Management
A widely endorsed wetlands management strategy was developed and adopted and now
guides the country's wetlands management activities. Effective environmental site screening and
monitoring of drainage rehabilitation areas was undertaken at all locations included in the drainage
rehabilitation program and identified ameliorative actions needed in two cases (both involving
runoff management from large livestock farms). The Environmental Research Center (ERC)
reported no problems found in water quality at any sites rehabilitated that might have been
attributable to the rehabilitation effort.  The outcome of this component is rated highly
satisfactory.
4.2.4 Agricultural Advisory Services
4.2.4.1 The Private Advisory Services Development Fund (PASDF)
Privately operated advisory services were intended to cover the needs for agronomic and
farm business advice of the most viable farmers and managers of joint stock farms. The project
-8 -



established the PSADF to support a demand-driven advisory service, which funded registered and
certified private advisors on a contract basis. Privately operating advisers were trained in advisory
methodology as well as in technical subjects, and an Association of Rural Advisors in Estonia
(ARAE) was established that played an important role in the capacity building of its members. A
certification system of advisers was put in place under the responsibility of the MOA, and only
certified advisors qualify for subsidized advisory contracts. A National Agricultural Extension
Task Force (NAETF) functioned during the first two years of the project to generate ideas,
monitor developments and formulate concepts and strategies, and it played a major role in
bringing together the views of farmers, advisers and public officials. Its functions subsequently
were carried on by a more informal "advisory concept group" in which the various stakeholders
participated.
The government subsidy for individual advisory contracts between farmers and advisers
was to be gradually reduced over a 9-year period (from 90% in 1996 to 0% in 2004). Initially,
the maximum basic advisory contract size was EEK 2,200, of which the farmer paid 10%. This
ceiling was increased to EEK 3,000 in 1997 and to EEK 4,000 in 2001, because the contract
ceilings were out of line with actual costs of typical advisory services required by farmers. Since
1998, farmers may conclude a second advisory contract each year, to meet additional needs not
covered by the basic contract. Their maximum size is double that of the basic contract, and the
client's own contribution is higher.
Over the project period, a total of 13,572 advisory contracts were approved (Annex 9,
Tables 2 and 3). The SAR anticipated contracts to number about 2,800 per year at full
development. This was achieved very soon, but after reaching a peak of 2,894 contracts in 1998,
the numbers declined to 2,689 in 1999, 2,350 in 2000, and only 1,410 in 2001. Among the
reasons for this are: the emergence of private input suppliers furnishing "free" topical advice; the
establishment of private advisers who prefer to operate outside the state-supported system; and
the rise in farmers' basic know-how and the concomitant decline in their need for advice. In
2001, a major administrative change contributed to the sharp drop in approved contracts: along
with all other agricultural subsidy schemes, that for advisory services is now managed centrally by
the Agricultural Registry and Information Board (ARIB), rather than by county administrations.
This change, made in preparation for EU membership, made it more difficult and time-consumiing
to correct errors in contract applications, because at the county offices both the advisor and the
farmer were usually personally known. Many farmers also appear to worry that a faulty
application could have effects on their eligibility for other, more substantial, subsidies such as
those under the milk or grain support programs and therefore do not apply for the advisory
support.
The total amount paid for advisory subsidies declined from a high of EEK 6.65 million in
1998 to EEK 3.56 million in 2001, while farmers contributed EEK 1.54 million in 2000 and EEK
1.50 million in 2001. The subsidy share in the total system declined from 89% in 1996 to 70% in
2001. The number of certified and registered advisors is also declining (Annex 9, Table 3). There
is a diminishing need for their service, be it because such advice has already been obtained or
because it is being sourced from other providers. There is, however, a growing need for more
complex technical advice and for advice relating to the preparation of business and financing plans
-9-



and for obtaining SAPARD support. The private advisors, working with their association
(ARAE), will have to explore ways to stay in business either through specialization or
diversification of their activities.
The number of active certified advisers participating in the scheme has declined from a
high of 189 in 1997 to 69 at the end of September 2002 (with 10 more waiting to be certified).
Most of them are specialized in more traditional areas of expertise (plant production 29%, animal
husbandry 20%, farm economics 36%). Only a limited number has other expertise such as
forestry, marketing or business planning. Contrary to expectations at appraisal (100-150 full-time
advisers), about two thirds of the current certified advisers are part-time advisers and hold other
jobs as well (e.g., university teachers/researchers; private farmers). Many of the advisers who left
the advisory support system have taken up employment with private companies.
The PASDF achieved the aims stated in the SAR. Farmers increased their knowledge,
especially in the fields of grain production and animal husbandry. They adopted improved
agricultural practices, especially in the areas of plant protection, animal nutrition and fodder
production. There now is broad understanding and acceptance among farmers that advisory
services have to be paid for by the beneficiaries. Annual customer satisfaction surveys, conducted
annually in 1996 through 2000, showed very high levels of satisfaction with the advice given (over
90%), and more than half the respondents indicated that they would wish to continue to buy
advice. The outcome of the PASDF subcomponent is rated as satisfactory.
4.2.4.2 Publicly-funded Extension
The SAR assumed that the middle category of farmers mainly needed advice to make their
current operations more profitable, and the project aided this group in various ways. There was
support to various agricultural institutions to develop publications. Chief among them was the
Farmers Federation which received support for the production of the agricultural magazine "Hiuva
Nou". This magazine was published for 2 years in an edition of 5000 free copies and was highly
appreciated by farmers. Since January 2002 farmers have to take out a subscription. So far 2,000
farmers have done so, and the number of subscriptions continues to increase. The project also
funded a large number of group advisory sessions, either conducted by the Farmers Federation's
advisers or by private advisers on request of county councils and/or farmers' groups. Two
agricultural colleges were given training and equipment to improve their curricula.
Responding to the rapid growth and acceptance of internet technology in the country, and
in order to make general infornation and advice more readily available, the project supported the
establishment of an Agricultural Infonnation Coordinating Center (AICC) and an internet-based
agricultural information network connecting the farming community with rural advisers, the
Ministry of Agriculture and other domestic and intemational sources of information. The central
portal and web-site (www.epk.ee) is maintained and continually updated by the AICC which, in
tum is run quite efficiently by the Foundation for Rural Development (FRD). The MOA also
channels printed information to the AICC which in turn distributes it to the network of Rural
Information Centers (see below). Anchored at the AICC, there is thus an effective system in
place for channeling information to farmers. The implementation of this subcomponent is rated
-10-



satisfactory.
4.2.4.3 Rural Information Centers (RICs)
Estonia has a large number of marginal farmers, and most of them hold additional jobs to
make ends meet. The frequently used label "hobby farmers" does not do justice to the importance
of farming for their livelihood. These people need information not only on farmning but also on
alternative employment and income opportunities, on legal matters and on ways to help them ease
the transition out of farming, and the most effective way to provide this information to them is by
electronic means - i.e., through Rural Information Centers (RICs) existing in almost all
communities. The project conducted two studies of all existing RICs in an effort to identify a
core network that would be supported. The first, carried out in 1999 by RICs themselves, did not
provide sufficiently solid information and recommendations. A second study was carried out in
2001. by a private consulting firm, and 15 of the most active RICs (one in each county) were
selected for direct project support. This comprised (i) training for staff, including in the use of
Linux software, and the establishment of working relations with local partners and county AICC
units and (ii) provision of computers and other essential office equipment. Given the very high
level of computer literacy and of computers present in households, the development of the
possibilities of IT in the rural areas will continue beyond the end of the project. The major
strength of this activity is its strong link with other initiatives in this field. One of them is the
Look(World initiative of a number of banks, insurance companies and other commercial
companies, who are promoting commercial services through the internet. Overall, the outcome of
this project activity is rated satisfactory.
4.2.5 Food Quality Control and Veterinary Laboratory
All the equipment procured is in effective use, and all training activities have been
successfully completed. The project strengthened the national Food Quality and Veterinary
Control system through the provision of laboratory equipment for the central laboratory in Tartu
and five regional laboratories in Tallinn, Paide, Parnu, Rakvere and Saaremaa. The Animal
Recording Center in Tartu and the Veterinary and Food Board in Tallinn were also provided with
essential laboratory equipment, and the plant protection laboratory in Saku received help for some
upgrading of critically needed equipment. A technical mission of the EU assessed the Estonian
system of food and veterinary safety controls in October 2001; based on its findings and
recommendations concerning technical equipment and staff competencies, the State laboratories
for food and veterinary control were subsequently accredited by the EU. The outcome of this
component is rated highly satisfactory.
4.2.6 Project Management
To minimize the need for recruiting new staff and start with an experienced management
team, the GOE and the Bank agreed with the EU in 1995 to entrust project coordination and
overall management, starting in mid-1996, to the already existing PIU of an ongoing EU (Phare)
project. EU Phare paid for the cost of the PIU and for international TA to get it fully functioning.
Although EU and Bank procedures differ in many respects, this meant that staff already
- 1 1 -



experienced in dealing with an external aid donor were in place and already played important roles
during project preparation. This PIU supported the preparation activities and subsequently
assisted the implementing line agencies until the Joint Bank-EU (Phare) PIU was fornally
established in 1996, under the administrative umbrella of the MOA and with funding support from
the EU, to administer both the EU (Phare) assistance program for agriculture and the new Bank
project. The PIU, reporting to the Deputy Secretary-General (or Vice-Chancellor) of the MOA,
was responsible for overall coordination of project activities, financial management and
accounting, loan disbursement, procurement coordination and supervision, project monitoring and
reporting, and liaison with the Bank. The M&E effort could have been more intensive and
sustained, but on the whole the PIU performed effectively.
The project was the first Bank project to operate under the new LACI (Loan
Administration Change Initiative) reporting and disbursement procedures. The agreement betwen
the GOE and the Bank to switch to the LACI procedures was finalized in March 1998. There
were some initial difficulties in preparing the required reports in the necessary detail, because the
PIU's financial management software required significant modifications to allow the production of
the reports needed. The Bank mobilized special TA to solve this problem, and the PIU operated
effectively under the LACI procedures until the Loan was closed. A temporary problem arose
*when the EU project ended in 1999 and the GOE needed to find funds to ensure the PIU's
continued operation. While this was being sorted out, project reporting for the first three quarters
of 2000 as required under the LACI procedures was severely delayed, causing a lengthy delay in
Loan disbursements and a liquidity problem for the project.
Overall project supervision and guidance was vested by the GOE in an inter-ministerial
Project Steering Council (PSC), headed by the Minister of Agriculture and with two
vice-chairmen from MOA and MOE, respectively. The PSC met once each quarter to review
progress reports prepared by the PIU and to decide on issues requiring high-level intervention.
The PSC took its role seriously and proved very willing to adjust implementation details in
response to changing conditions and circumstances.
Actual implementation was managed by several different agencies within or under the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment. Each of these performed effectively.
The only bottleneck encountered was the failure of the NLB to place an adequate number of staff
in its Contract Administration Unit (CAU). This led to a significant overloading of this small unit
and, hence, to delays in getting survey contracts prepared, tendered and awarded. The problem
was resolved in early 2000 when six county-level staff were assigned to assist the CAU. On the
whole, the performance of project management is considered highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post-economic analysis has been prepared on the basis of current input prices and
using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 1.0, equating financial and economic prices because
of the absence of any trade restrictions. As Estonia is a net importer of cereals, import parity
prices have been used in the economic analysis (Annex 8). Cereals and fodder/hay production
have been used primarily for livestock activities. Because of lack of data on incremental milk and
meat production that could be attributed to the project, the incremental value of production at full
development (in 2006) takes into account only the additional crop production, comprising cereals,
- 12 -



vegetables and fodder/fiay (Annex 7, Appendix A, Table 11). This approach underestimates
project output, but is justified because there are no data on the level of complementary on-farm
investments made by farmers with own or borrowed funds (i.e., not provided by the project).
This very conservative analysis indicates that, due to the project, the cultivated area
increased from 59,318 ha before the project to 67,547 ha (Annex 8, Tables 2, 3 and 8), while
average yield increases for the various crops are estimated to average about 10% from 1996 to
2006 (Annex 8, Table 11). The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole is
estimated at 14.6% (Annex 8, Table 13). This is 1.4 percentage points below the estimates
prepared at appraisal, but quite satisfactory. In reality, the ex-post ERR is higher because, as
noted above, the analysis takes into account only project benefits derived from incremental crop
production and leaves out incremental milk and meat production.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
While the notional average 25-ha farm size still exists, commercially viable agricultural
activities, particularly dairy farming, are today carried out on much larger units reaching, in some
cases, up to 500 ha. Most of these units operate with only part of their land owned (10% to
20%), with the remainder leased from neighbors or absentee landowners. The economic analysis
has therefore been carried out for the project as a whole, taking into consideration the various
benefits that can be attributed to the project as a result of the successful implementation of the
principal project components. Many of the benefits that have derived from the implementation of
the individual project components proved to be interrelated and could not be analyzed in isolation.
A brief discussion on project benefits is given in Annex 3. The increase in net farm income is
estimated, on average, to be 35%, with net income per ha increasing from EEK 2,700 in the
without-project situation to about EEK 3,660 at full development.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has been instrumental in supporting institutional change and capacity building
in several areas. During the course of the project, the NLB has transformed itself from a
Soviet-era Land Management Agency into a modem Cadastre along Western European lines.
The survey sections were privatized, and all survey work is now contracted out to a very
competitive private survey industry that provides quality service on commercial terms. The NLB
itself has established small units in each county that undertake quality control of cadastre work.
Support from bilateral donors, provided simultaneously, has been instrumental in training
assessors, surveyors and cadastre specialists, while bilateral assistance regarding land registry
management by TBOs appears to have had limited impact.
The development of grassroots institutions, the Land and Water Associations, under the
Drainage Rehabilitation component has been remarkable. Not only have SAR targets been
substantially exceeded, with many LWAs now functioning even where no project funding was
provided for rehabilitation works, but the LWAs have in fact taken over substantial responsibility
for routine maintenance.
Under the Agricultural Advisory Services component, a three-pronged institutional
arrangement has been established to serve different segments of the rural clientele: a network of
private advisers (linked in an association of their own), a public-good system operated mainly
- 13-



through the Farmers Federation, and a web-based system operated through the AICC and the
RICs that promises to have the widest reach and to expand coverage far beyond agronomics and
farm management issues. This institutional development, and the combination of both virtual and
more physical advisory services, allows for considerable flexibility in response to changes in
clientele composition and needs. The shrinkage in private advisory contracts and the growth of
the web-based system are responses to such changes.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Several outside factors had an impact on the project during its implementation. The most
important and continually operative one was the speed with which the Estonian economy,
including agriculture, effected the transition into a truly market-based one and with which it
moved to be ready for EU membership. This affected farm sizes and structures, market choices,
prices and rural sociology more profoundly than had been expected at the time of appraisal and
necessitated some flexibility in project implementation, notably in the advisory services
component. The second major outside factor was the Russian financial crisis of 1997 which had
significant negative consequences for farm exports and incomes as well as for the GOE's budget
and its ability to fund rural services and investments; this led to the agreement to raise Bank
financing for technical services from 60% to 80%. The drought of 1998 and the flooding of 1999
also affected the project, as the GOE felt compelled to ease the burden of private advisory service
costs on farmers. Finally, the unexpected macro-economic difficulties experienced in 1996 and
1997 caused counterpart provisions during the initial project years to be late and short of SAR
expectations.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Except for the difficulties in providing timely counterpart funding during the first two
years, there were no factors subject to Government control that significantly impeded project
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Key project positions were filled with competent individuals, and there were only two
cases where a more active stance would have been beneficial: the tardy reconstitution of the PIU
after EU-Phare funding ceased, and the delay in recruiting help for NLB's Contract
Administration Unit (CAU) when it had become apparent that it was overburdened by the work
load associated with the expanding number of survey contracts. Six additional staff were finally
recruited in 2000 at county level, and part of their task was to assist the CAU. This, together
with the recruitment of a management consulting firm, solved the problems of slow preparation
work at the county level and of slow contract administration.
Management effectiveness was good in all components, although the filing systems at both
the PIU and the CAU suffered from repeated physical relocations and lack of space, respectively.
Under the Land Reform component very few Loan funds were used before the MTR, due to
the availability of other financial resources for survey work and to NLB dissatisfaction with
contracting procedures established under the project which had led surveyors to submit
unacceptably high bids for Loan-funded work. Revised contracting procedures and improved
- 14 -



management solved the problem. Only local TA was used in the form of a management and
monitoring contractor. The adequacy of monitoring and evaluation was good. County cadastre
offices undertook quality control, and a management/monitoring contractor acted as a link
between contractors, the NLB and municipalities.
The Advisory Services component was affected to some extent by differences of opinion
between the MOA and the Farmers Federation. At the start of the project, a particular model for
the delivery of advisory services had already been put into place under a bilateral program: it
envisaged an advisory service based on the local farmers' unions. The MOA's preference was for
a network of private advisors, causing some friction with the Farmers Federation that was not
fully eased even when the decision was made to support both types of extension service. The
formulation of a clear advisory and extension strategy early on could have lessened these
problems. The abolition of the National Agricultural Extension Task Force after two years of
operation resulted in considerable delays in developing and adopting a national extension policy.
An early adoption of such a strategy could have prevented some of the animosity between parties
during the project life. Finally, the transfer of advisory contract administration from county
offices to the Agricultural Registry and Information Board (ARIB) in 2001 led initially to
frustration among farmers and advisers due to the high rate of rejections of applications for
bureaucratic reasons farmers often could not understand. This change was, however, in line with
the government policy to have all agricultural subsidy programs administered by the ARIB, as the
country prepared for EU membership.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the request of the GOE, the Loan was denominated in a single currency (German Mark
[DM]) at a variable LIBOR-based interest rate.  Most of Estonia's borrowings were
LIBOR-based, and the Estonian Kroon was pegged to the German Mark. (Since January 2002 it
is pegged to the Euro). At the time of appraisal, the DM/US$ exchange rate was 1.385. Seven
years later, when the Loan closed on June 30, 2002, this rate had deteriorated to DM 1.961/US$.
The project was projected to cost US$30.9 million (DM 44.45 million), with the Bank financing
49.5%, the GOE 36.9%, the EU Phare 1.6% and benefiaries 12.0%. At completion, total project
costs had reached an estimated DM 47.55 million, or about 107% of the appraisal estimate,
mainly because of significantly greater Government funding of recurrent expenses for food quality
testing under the Food Quality & Veterinary Control component. In dollar terms, final project
costs were only US$25.9 million, due to the substantial change in the exchange rate. The
contributions from the different financing sources were WB 46.3%, GOE 42.9%, EU 1.9% and
beneficiaries 8.9%. Details on project costs and financing are presented in Annex 2 and in Annex
8, Table 5.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationaleforsustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely.
The NLB has developed into a fully functioning and efficient budget organization. The
project provided funds for surveys, and this does not affect NLB sustainability as it does not do
survey work itself. Where further surveys are needed, they will be done in response to
-15 -



individuals' or municipalities' demand, and surveyors will be paid directly by these clients to
undertake the work. The surveying and cadastre registration carried out under the project has
been instrumental in establishing the administrative base for the functioning of a land market and
for an effective property taxation system. The cadastre is about to become fully self-financing,
and the land market has begun to show buoyancy and can be expected to continue growing
rapidly.
The drainage rehabilitation component is undertaken on farmers' land based on a cost
sharing arrangement, which includes a substantial contribution by fanners. These investments
have achieved high financial and economic returns and, together with the high degree of
beneficiary ownership, are expected to ensure proper maintenance of the drainage infrastructure
rehabilitated under the project. Future funding for rehabilitating the remaining areas where
rehabilitation is economically viable will be provided through a combination of regular budget
resources, EU support funds and farmers' own resources.
The private advisory service subsidy is gradually being eliminated, and farmers have paid
increasingly more from their own resources for privately obtained extension service, but the
original target date of full elimination of the subsidy by the end of 2004 is not likely to be realized.
Nevertheless, farmers increasingly pay for private advisory services -- including service obtained
outside the subsidized system. The combination of factors that has caused the decline in the
number of participating advisers, the number of subsidized advisory contracts and the overall
amount spent on the subsidy will continue to exert pressure in the direction of full elimination of
the subsidy. In 2001, farmers already paid some EEK 1.5 million for the service, three times as
much as in 1997, indicating their willingness and capacity to pay. The larger farmers' need for
more complex technical advice relating to business and financial planning and to SAPARD
support is closely correlated with an increased willingness and ability to pay for such advice. The
smaller farmers, conversely, are increasingly less dependent on basic extension advice that has
been provided so far and make more and more use of the web-based information service run
through the AICC and the RICs. The RICs are operated by local Farmers Unions and are well
accepted by the rural population and supported by the communities (who provide the office
space). The value of information access through the RICs is well understood, and the
sustainability of the web-based information system can be regarded as assured.
The investments made in upgrading the equipment and staff capacity in the Food Quality
and Veterinary Control laboratories have proven to be highly beneficial, helping Estonia to meet
EU accession conditions, ensure access to EU markets and secure better prices for exports. The
utilization of these facilities has been substantially greater than anticipated at appraisal, and the
GOE has consistently committed adequate funding for their operation and maintenance.
The Wetlands Management Strategy formulated under the project is the guiding document
for Estonia's efforts to preserve its environmentally and touristically important wetland areas.
And the technical capacity developed to monitor groundwater quality at the drainage
rehabilitation sites remains in place and is being utilized to monitor water quality at other
locations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
-16 -



The transition to regular operations has been effected as planned and without difficulty -
excepting the drainage rehabilitation program for which there has been no funding for about two
years now while the GOE negotiated its future agricultural support program and funding
arrangements with the EU. This program will resume once funding arrangements have been
agreed upon; this may or may not involve EU support. Farners themselves, especially where they
are organized in LWAs, have enough technical capabilities to ensure regular maintenance of the
drainage infrastructure already rehabilitated. Land surveying and registration is continuing, with
regular budget resources, under the overall management of the NLB and the procedures
established during the project. The three major rural advisory services activities remain operating,
as do the laboratories upgraded under the project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the
project was satisfactory. The project was consistent with GOE and Bank development priorities
and the Bank's CAS. Relations between the Bank and the Borrower's institutions were good
during identification, preparation and appraisal, notwithstanding lively debate on many project
design issues. Divergent views on the scope of policy conditions and on the range of activities to
be covered by the project explain the comparatively long preparation period. A change in task
leadership on the Bank side resulted in greater flexibility in responding to GOE concerns and
rapid progress to appraisal. The Borrower noted that the expertise marshalled by the Bank in the
areas of drainage rehabilitation and advisory services in particular was highly appreciated and
continues to guide operations today.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory.  Twelve supervision
missions, including an MTR in October 1999, were carried out to review progress at intervals of
approximately six months. In addition, three interim technical supervisions were carried out by
specialists focussed on individual project components. Appropriate skill mix and staff continuity
were assured, with consultants being mobilized for specific aspects of certain project components.
Throughout implementation, project staff of MOA and MOE and the Bank team maintained a
very constructive relationship with each other. In general, Bank staff were persistent, firm and
clear in their dialogue with Government in insisting on performance while simultaneously working
to find constructive solutions to problems identified. Bank supervision became more proactive
just prior to the MTR when the Bank assumed a more dynamic role in resolving problems.
Supervision reports realistically rated the project's performance in terms of achievement of its
development objectives and physical implementation. The MTR did not result in a restructuring
of the project components. However, as requested by the GOE in 1997 and in 1998, the Bank
agreed to a GOE request to reallocate Loan funds (mainly from land reform to drainage
rehabilitation) in line with actual implementation progress and needs, and amendments to the Loan
Agreement were made accordingly.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
- 17 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower perfornance during project preparation was satisfactory. GOE did not leave
preparation to the Bank, but stayed very closely engaged in the design and preparation process.
The preparation of a national agricultural development strategy during this tirne provided a very
valuable framework for focusing the objectives, scope and direction of the project. The Borrower
mobilized competent staff, and all concemed entities closely participated in and effectively
contributed to the preparation effort.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the GOE is rated satisfactory. It provided full support to the project,
and implementation details were managed autonomously and effectively by the concemed line
agencies under the effective overall guidance of the inter-agency PSC. The early difficulties
encountered with delayed counterpart funding were overcome and not repeated. Similarly, the
problems experienced with the temporary confusion over PIU funding and the overstretched
capacity of the NLB's CAU were effectively addressed once the Bank stressed the importance to
act. Suggestions and recommendations from supervision missions were followed up effectively.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of both MOA and MOE and their respective implementing line agencies
and departments was satisfactory. Both ministries displayed strong commitment to the project
and had well trained and motivated staff at HQ and at county level, ensuring effective
implementation as well as good monitoring of all project activities. The PIU was professional and
effective in carrying out its responsibilities. (The delayed LACI reporting during the first part of
2000 was due to the temporary hiatus of the entire PIU when its staff were without contracts.)
All legal covenants were complied with, and there were no problems with procurement or
financial management.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* Project preparation and appraisal took longer than anticipated, but this proved to be very
important and essential in ensuring full agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on all
issues of project objectives, content and design.
*  The Borrower's strong and sustained commitment to the project and the Bank's readiness to
adjust implementation arrangements to changing circumstances and needs were instrumental
for the project's successful implementation. This was particularly so in the case of the land
survey program, but also in the drainage rehabilitation and advisory services components.
* Some assumptions regarding the impact of the transition from a Soviet to a market economy
on the evolving structure of the rural economy proved to be flawed, suggesting that SAR
forecasts should not be regarded as immutable blueprints and that implementation details for
outer years should be formulated with more room for flexibility. The evolution of the farming
sector and its segmentation into different farm sizes and classes was more rapid than the SAR
foresaw, and this had implications for the advisory services component. Many new
landowners also responded to the evolving land and tax policy and administration in ways that
- 18-



were not fully anticipated at appraisal, necessitating modifications in the implementation of the
land reform component. Similarly, the country's rapid progress towards EU membership
affected Government's budget and public investment policy, and lengthy negotiations with the
EU over the use of SAPARD funding caused a temporary cessation of funding for the
drainage rehabilitation program initiated under the Project.
* Government does not need to "own" the rural advisory system for it to be effective and
efficient. The Estonian experience shows that an effective public-private partnership can
satisfactorily meet the information needs of various segments of the rural clientele and can
very quickly adapt to changing client characteristics and needs.
* Internet-based information services are proving to be very cost effective and efficient means to
provide rural population in sparsely populated areas a link to the world.
* Having a nationally agreed agricultural/rural policy and strategy in place is greatly beneficial
for designing a project that is effectively targeted at national priority objectives.
* Effective coordination of aid provided by different outside agencies is highly beneficial for
project implementation and achievement of overall objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
please see next page
- 19-



RAHANDUSMISNEUMnR                   MINSTRY OF MANCE
I.-aw        QOF lEiTONIA
Mr, R9it W. Gmwe
Couna Directo for Cc" Mxot.
lbnvw--nne  Cm{fli4l Atinj RPir
MeWorb lnkOfflie
Wawv tinancWCuiAw smt 9woor
53 EmniPbWe$tr.
00-13 Waraw
POLA
flEe VbobRA*fttel froiwi- 3983ERua] ReE iQ
IheEdn AmiouftelionPraIe ht beeneetWidad to inwvo txm 'Wv
Ur hwo  .wvpord= lmnuiiuuc"onQ f fa nr AgIwhigu
invutenent4g bi1ud qmsg adviroiy"mm COt food and vdmiy vuUltYcoojra
s~b o'        d   ,   ^   d       w   ,   ,      UK
fi  lcamp 1ita      nm 1m1m0 r      tal 1mtotbtaiOnw lIoam
t> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i i'b                 iid  t.d^
r_w g  ~     vlf.budat -  rc~          'hi Aoof !,         -  t.J --
alg.tijug fle. UxLoan' Aplantin ;qi~wt1996) hqect Min&,rtUigmw ALAtobIitte
fl      i   e PMU ih _& d  , m26113 58 Pi St Cnmite was 1 , ,
htdile Projec    ao wy. qli ,     o1zueasa plaedw key toj along iiii ha sinuu
unit+ o    ithMllt o *-aifnmit and saiaa naiaIIAM Board (HNE.Most
of' Plabago has utieao *ie ficlvamn pt~dic Coah11o nd.aictis hisbo
am  1  EUf U U1UUII M7 W nm tWW x oju.*1  l  I  SM~L1I1W  M~  CMAW  J
wcee used asa bis~crec. Lo ltsef tuIl as taonDnEDL Elueto chanpesincirm
onxhuorXs cwin 1995, ih cta siz of e ?xooc.t is slihl 6nailer. cii .h odieaer fli
rebiln to stae bUdget durn lon pi~not pcniod, ,o.atdto posibl  I'bsd,
londgX. hibs oions so4ncwbs ai~p~  etibp proeCttoameit4ctYfvilseaaflyn
ptnizs.fflI fln,.~firiuS ardr  pt  ,~~~t VAnn4i Ksnn m,vl. niS !t.,. wh 1tIuS ')iu
blaniced e efoct. 
BwzAnda I               P?buu: '+372 681 3558     E-MU Ineeo
1 isuo cairn        31w io (IIU         j   Oiwsww4ir,e2
-20 -



2
Relions with te Bank were problcato in eady phase.of fth Piec preparation
(too strict ptions of the Task Mager). Since apointmt of Brian BeriWai
pmpstionx wnt BmaL Oo& ing impimt  t tbe Pro ct' s ma   by F ian
Ofob until lte 1998. Afer Grohb mgrig the sLx-monl= vacum fom the Bank
side was sohled by appointment of a new. Tssk M aW,=r G8tz Siiber, wbho has
ol txellentjdb wit the PrjecL Sincetthat Wvebnvcbn no magnmmii*bkms
wiUth the Bank
Ptject maacim     - RAP has been the -Ot wonrMwide intjilae i  vase of
tACf (LEae Admilon Change Tnidaive) acotie and raprft systim,
bansd on quaterly mepodts (PMR) inui  expenditfec lio4asts fretm I ds,
following-advo= tr   of ueceoy funds from q n  e-A'coint to the Specil
A;ou:4 following pcAm of a_ iinge aehially usd fowis In bdh local mad
Baok systans. anita diflicOtes of iei aon in 197 u sudemasf olved
after Bank'a'Vibe Praideninbmres IUna's visit to EtAnit and 'LA  has pridV d to
the tnje reeser~ neflebitfy.
Gdo oooprin has beu esthblse with Iv~s A. Ambroseswin   aud Mt 
Warsacha o~ isborsenarid aooisurag iw  . astsluetosy onM with m& 4.
M1tr6vio:  Thog the Poject Ministry of A5rwtitmliiehsreiedavuble
e~   ~~h ,   tpmo      mw Ph  y 'p iA W.       '"
ptart, te Ministry of AgricWtire 1In  oeto of      ai To manmg- t&e
fietls tUeRud lhelm       gh bederf       ad said   y
ip    ,,e thSAPAPD progM.
la's' stredp since 198.i clos  flo Z'wihdang  .'" ie.Int*
thpincun      .inks. tom, in er  dot (ti ati =APdhI itetienatds w onaW
bidde.*s revenu. tea), Ihe muar of bidds  ininhlow  and ies coi y
hIghwth.an.mret auvaago. Iii co,ope , wih the Ria to, thqc s wei
m        Site sdeection aireria. were ip  t   ooai(     lu twdt
ptiees ftoo the bidding, ezsltbl~ coi" nn t  CedI1t-W-'  (i 5a~OO
p  *  bidX Enilill_bg   ift,tp to d  if tuV    (an avewtbos
4 0610 ;kX   j UiA*toy saceletg  he refotan plipoes in involied ata
Difficritios were encouPteRd h prqw  io f pIes(t  of locams  'iryto,
idait    els and rts).- wiA assistlne f Mr. Ati auwaand G; Adinnm tew
ionept wan rnrdie  sinwe 200camplolag s yr    rh,re prynita 329.
.972haeppedforaurvoyi) 115 607 hasurasyaci (13 389 rperica.ba
60 000 ha related to  Wnage sitaS. Ais nfr i legisationi  a ly pvrad -in
iP!?, the mathods of 1stpoe swurvying'  - adceoli,dt"-   Sest'endl
d  to laki of'funds * band on' irit ex   someti       t
Cmsolidaiao was proided onea 600W h4 to aieve  tr parcelour    or
agiiwultual knz uta. The developed and telste edaesa'sused by locl nii ,;atve
Etr *a Project b bbeen c Wupeted. At ith  epa   period of   tana, fth sr
CW0tr1 uietworc s nwa 5ehedu   Uinet t Ijet, howevr,   to it stttg
of Poje and necessity of newr. {he eqied4 neoro;rvyg was prvided by
theGat'cmlne'2
-21 -



3
Dapge Rdeabion - the ProjePt was whcil to be laundie i gm 6
aiedyni - 1995 theX  t as we seect ed dsign p m  a c 
BaoYe p  dnree theta  (Vwia ad RAni) Wem roiatt i1 i996h 1   Alo
dowbi 15 itas e  pted (electio and design), w0l.h quick stat *I=
hoa fid wre ped. The cow1lex flkw line }18 be ad  'ithy
vobsu of rdabiltlion of 2025 000 hieca.of drbie a  Project
exceede iii  rats by 30% Howeer due to *te IliretedD esr the fds Were
fitly ased'by yesr20Dl and thus in year 2002 tt were no atvities fifthe' &u
ebzbita AMdibamlyto tchial   , = ,ien1. *e acisAe4  wwofteimpat
wae amen moe wipatit A pve grt i        tig a4 patte
peaniing by don to f zq-opae t   expai*    dia
rn twacpatintvcll, watera  and  .O W*    urecarms, To sesh
beersoftiom, -Dutch ind FWehb expes were solo with their l hw e
tc hin atinga. thf walcr raimAgent and     f- i soa   i
fleiibly.cn selcteites. $hke en-operai betiminvol ved aties(amerM Lia
en4 WoierM  iatiuhs, muellaretioribmnus ,designes a4d t*ppf, otat
furfflUork. .egvi_.;nu&ent auteiiswd HNO ,,stah1ia wihn the Proect
A*Wd        ( A $xe 'Sii t - die potitdo *ttoieg 0rtsrlbtrtr
bahamsagicatyhpc|d i     nageehd%itao       bw   rp
ecetr an exeis eocpatInsbee ettva atcic* ed %lth non-Zss
'enviuen orgniatbmln th s-he aetlonjbas
*~lzfIAvsr Serhicso - th  jcbXiir thmi"getritWn
Ppam of SeOO  to   va an twcal iaik ii.          :aoand
ifoanahm d&JWM $ems ha been deoped within ltb, oec.Acat
tq_>-94 * ~~~~fyin iir 'h xnciebsf .,of aicutuza
13W *e'                         bs ta
Food tmd Vi    Casre - played hm8ltbl Fd'          of p
ams fd f fu    )w ,4        of irandad   giivs _  o:iy
oBi       cbit    ftedu p  ianp      t wd
t                ws   ttktis  g X X e_ Wc4X)* X~~~~~~~~~~~~i
rivn a oL el service bothn in  intoeb lavbeorany  at4 iiodire*bctnsyX
eid kAopewrew buds tecoi al apac oWf k etat dOve  .eit iv T>
pmojtomcabigue of ofWc th, ercfnda ftwa recoaskuct'iopan rcoyatused. =borator
-22-



4
Wider Uftil foridlar u4vlties in developiu oountm (tiining, prmat*on and
imp        l cfptocukxn~t isst fot food and veterinary oowrol).
iUy. Etmian Gov&nent would like to thank all the involved parties, eially
tbe Dank oi their tegibcal .offivs of Tallinn and Wanw dwing iuccesrfd co-
ePraoti of thc inplearion of the P woct
YOMzr ti'4y,
Ministe ofFninea
cc; Ms. 3nonSMMi,Minise of Agiotr
Mr T   ciKroic.Mbi*orofEnfromnust
M  InlewavnEg. Direcir&ewd dN3.
*Mr iitp       LHaflIl Cortxy M ,nad PoI aided SeniorPfloi
Malaar .1n Eik~~         1thn X  1l Stlso
MAr. J*sphQEo1Ir Stoo  ager!iC, The Walid lank
Mr. G;8IZ 8cb er T*kMnaei, Th Woil iDan1
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
' --PPndinatortMatrix,  -  -                                                                          n- -  Projected in  R.st  At/LetActualsLateestEstimate
(1) 30,000 ha of rural lands to be registered  2,961,715 ha total         2,961,715 ha total
in the cadastre annually over tha next 5
years.
(2) Agricultural production in drainage area  n.a.                        SAR levels exceeded for feedgrains (barley
increases and crop and pasture| yields                                    and oats up 16,000 tons) and hay (up 65,000
increase to the levels specified ip the                                   tons), but not for potatoes (up only 7,000
economic analysis.                                                        tons)
(3) Farmers increasingly use advisory  1,410 contracts in 2001            1.410 contracts in 2001
services. Number of advisory cpntracts
between advisors and farmers develop to the
levels specified in the SAR.
(4) Wetlands management strategy study  completed                         completed
completed.
(5) Food quality control improves which is  achieved; laboratories accredited by EU  achieved; laboratories accredited by EU
demonstrated by the acceptance of the
annual reports on food and livestock auality
by the EU.
Output Indicators:
LIndicator/Matnx                   Projected in last PSR  - -      a               Esimate:-
Land Reform
Decentrarization of cadastre offices  15 offices                         15 offices
Privatization of Est-Survey         done                                 done
Cadastre surveys
Area surveyed and registered (ha)  169,346                             169,043
Number of properties registered  13.082                               13,263
Drainage Rehabilitation
Sites rehabilitated (ha)            76,800                               81,035
LWAs established                    104                                  104
Open drains rehabilitated (km)      2,742                                2,742
Land Use Management
Wetlands Management Strategy        completed                            completed
Envir. monitoring of drainage sites  76 sites                            76 sites
Laboratory equipment                installed and in use                 installed and in use
Advisory Services
Advisory Contracts Concluded        13,100 (1996-2001)                   13,572 (1996-2001)
RIC network established             almost done                          done
Food Quality & Veterinary Control
Laboratories modemized to EU standard  completed                         completed
Samples analyzed                                                         1,585,000
Tests carried out                                                        5,876,000
End of project
-24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
,, ,,   .   : j F. '  -- .'-' '; Appraisal  Actual/Latest.  Percntage of,,
Estimate      Estimate  ,   Appraisal
' -Proect Cost By Component'  .       US$ fniljiQfl  US$ million
Land Reform                                         5.50           2.61           47.5
Farm Drainage Rehabilitation                       10.90           8.60           78.9
Land Use Management                                 0.90           0.66           72.9
Agricultural Advisory Services                      6.00           5.30           88.3
Food Quality & Veterinay Control                    1.70           6.99          410.9
Project Management                                  0.90           0.41           23.3
Total Baseline Cost                                25.90          24.57
Physical Contingencies                             1.00
Price Contingencies                                4.00
Total Project Costs            30.90          24.57
Total Financing Required             30.90         24.57
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.Procurementt hl'ethor;
Expenditure Caiegory   ,e IU3  ~-4 --                                      T 1. i. '0oinli Cosi
1. Works                     0.00         7.90         0.00         0.00         7.90
(0.00)       (4.80)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (4.80)
2. Goods                     1.60         0.00         0.20         0.90         2.70
(1.60)       (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)      (1.80)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         6.70         2.00         8.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.70)       (0.00)       (4.70)
4. Technical Services        0.00         6.70         0.00         0.00         6.70
(Land Surveys)              (0.00)        (4.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (4.00)
5. Recurrent Costs           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         4.90         4.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     1.60         14.60         6.90         7.80        30.90
(1.60)       (8.80)       (4.90)       (0.00)       (15.30)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
. >  '  .  6  X  5,   r  r   * ;Proc!ure-em ni- 1uethod; --         . 
Expenditure Category .C3                           GIB Prpcu.....n.  Wieo  'LB.Fe  Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         14.07        0.00        0.00        14.07
(0.00)       (8.60)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (8.60)
2. Goods                     2.94         0.00         0.95         1.17        5.06
(2.94)       (0.00)       (0.95)      (0.00)       (3.89)
-25 -



3. Services                     0.00          0.00           9.74          1.77         11.51
(0.00)         (0.00)        (5.67)        (0.00)        (5.67)
4. Technical Services           0.00          5.02           0.00          0.00          5.02
(Land Surveys)                 (0.00)         (3.84)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.84)
5. Recurrent Costs              0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (11.89)       (11.89)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        2.94          19.09         10.69          2.94         35.66
(2.94)        (12.44)        (6.62)       (11.89)       (33.89)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
t'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project finds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. v   1-  ~ ~ ~~~~       |        '  ~~~~ -     ~~~    IP~ercentage of Appraisal 
- Corni onent   |      Appraisal Estimale- Actual/Latest Estim3te          |.
Bank      Gnot .    CoF.  B:alik        Go%t.     CoF.  Baink    Cov. CoF.
Land Reform              4.00      2.80                2.02      0.60              50.5   21.4
Farm Drainage            5.90      4.70                5.18      1.97              87.8   41.9
Rehabilitation
Land Use Management      0.90      0.10                0.63      0.03              70.0   30.0
Agricultural Advisory    3.20      1.80      0.50      1.85      2.35      0.37    57.8   130.6  74.0
Services
Food Quality & Veterinary  1.30    0.70                1.61      5.38              123.8  768.6
Control
Project Management                 1.20                          0.11      0.10            9.2
-26-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR Approach
At appraisal, a farm model analysis was carried out to assess the impact of the project
investments in farm drainage rehabilitation and agricultural advisory services on the income of
dairy farms, the dominant farm type in Estonia. It was assumed that other complementary
on-farm investments, such as in farm machinery, livestock and buildings, would be financed
directly by the farmers. The financial and economic analysis was based on project benefits that
would derive from the above components and were quantified in terms of the output of dairy and
beef products. The analysis was based on a representative farm model of a typical 25 ha dairy
farm. These farms were considered at appraisal the dominating farm type, producing the bulk of
all agricultural output having the greatest potential to develop into profitable enterprises. The
drainage rehabilitation program, as foreseen under the project, would increase the production
mainly of forage crops and to a lesser extent of cereals and potatoes. Rehabilitation and good
maintenance of the drainage system were considered a key pre-requisite to improving the
efficiency of livestock and crop production.
ICR Approach
While the "typical" 25-ha dairy farm still exists from a legal and statistical point of view, in
practice viable agricultural activities, including dairy, are today carried out on much larger units
reaching, in some cases, up to 500 ha. Usually, some 10-20% of this area is owned by the farmer,
while the remainder is rented or leased from neighbors or absentee landowners. The economic
analysis has been, therefore, carried out for the project as a whole, taking into consideration the
various benefits that can be attributed to the project as a result of the successful implementation of
the principal project components (land reform, farm drainage rehabilitation, agricultural advisory
services, and food quality and veterinary control services). Many of the benefits that have so far
derived from the implementation of the project components proved to be interrelated and could
not be analyzed in isolation. Overall, project benefits are estimated to reach the full development
situation in Year 2006. A brief discussion on project benefits is given below:
i.    Land Reform: The project has facilitated the registration of about 170,000 ha of rural
land, and about 70% of the country's land area is now registered in the cadastre. This is
facilitating the reallocation of farm land through leases or sales to efficient agricultural producers,
thereby increasing agricultural production and rural incomes. In principle, it also facilitates farmer
access to long-term credit, but this has been the case so far mainly for the larger farmers.
ii.   Farm Drainage Rehabilitation: Some 81,000 ha of the most fertile drained farm lands
have been rehabilitated under the project, significantly increasing farm productivity in the
rehabilitated areas. (It has also greatly mitigated the risk of crop loss due to flooding, as
demonstrated in 1999 when farmers with well drained land were able to continue field operations
and harvest on time while others could not enter their waterlogged fields at all.) Although the
final .project benefits to be attributed to this component were estimated at appraisal in terms of
additional meat and milk production, the analysis at ICR covers only the incremental crop
production because of lack of data regarding dairy activities. The M&E data provided by the PIU
only provided details on land use and yields for the without and with project situations (Annex 8,
Tables 8, 11 and 12).
- 27 -



iii.  Agricultural Advisory Services: The extension component was instrumental in the
dissemination of information on farm technologies and improved farm and business management
practices. As indicated in Annex 8, Table 1 1, yield increases of major crops, at full project
development, are estimated to range from 8% (legumes) to 25% (potatoes), with hay yields
expected to increase by 50%. Environmental benefits, difficult to quantify, are already visible and
are expected to be achieved in full as a result of improved and safe storage and application of
manure and farm chemicals, enhancement of soil fertility, and reduction of agricultural run-off.
iv.   Food Quality and Veterinary Services: The project improved the technical equipment
and staff competencies of key laboratories. These facilities meet EU standards and have been
accredited by the EU. The effect is that Estonian food and livestock products satisfactorily tested
and certified are exportable to the EU, with positive impact on local producer prices. At the same
time, the expanded high-quality testing of food samples has a positive impact on consumer safety.
On the basis of the above considerations and the data analyzed, net farm income is
estimated to increase, on average, by about 35% by full project development, with net income per
ha increasing from EEK 2,700 under the without project situation to about EEK 3,660 at full
development.
The ex-post-economic analysis is based on estimates of current input prices (fertilizers
being the main traded input) and using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 1.0, equating
financial and economic prices because of the absence of any trade restrictions (Annex 8, Table 9).
Since Estonia is a net importer of cereals, import parity prices have been used for wheat and
barley for which conversion factors of 1.13 and 1. 18, respectively, have been estimated (Annex 8,
Table 10). An average conversion factor of 1.15 has been applied for oats, rye and other cereals.
Fodder/hay and cereal production is used primarily as intermediate product for livestock activities.
However, given the lack of data on incremental milk and meat production attributable to the
project, the incremental value of production at full development (Year 2006) takes into account
only the additional crop production, including cereals, vegetables and fodder/hay (Annex 8, Table
11). This approach underestimates the expected total project output, but is justified because there
are no data on complementary on-farm investments made by farmers outside the project (i.e.,
financed from own or borrowed resources).
This analysis indicates that, as a result of the project, the cultivated area in the drainage
rehabilitation sites, estimated at 59,300 ha before the project, has increased to about 67,550 ha
(Annex 8, Tables 2 and 3), with related yield increases to be reached by 2006 as described above.
On the basis of the above assumptions, the ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for
the project is estimated as 14.6% (Annex 8, Table 13). Although 1.4 points below the value
projected at appraisal, this is satisfactory. In fact, the full ex-post ERR is higher because, as noted
above, the analysis takes into account only the benefits of the incremental primary crop
production and ignores the reported, but not quantitatively recorded, increases in dairy and meat
production.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage-of Project C9c*e            No. 6f.Persons and.Specialty       PerformancIe Rating
.(e.g. 2 Ecohomiists, 1 FMS, etc-)  Implementation Development
Mohhnear     Count        Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1992             1   AG. ECONOMIST
November 1993            2   AG. ECONOMIST
DIVISION CHIEF
May 1994                 3   AG. ECONOMIST
ECONOMIST, CREDIT
SPECIALIST
September 1994          10   TASK MANAGER, FORESTRY
SPEC., AG. ECONOMIST,
FORESTRY ECONOMIST,
DRAINAGE SPEC., RURAL
INSTITUTIONS SPEC.,
LIVESTOCK & EXTENSION
SPEC., LAND REFORM SPEC.,
RURAL CREDIT SPEC., LAND
& WATER ASSOCIATIONS
SPEC.
November 1994           2   TASK MANAGER
FORESTRY SPEC.
January 1995             5   TASK MANAGER,
EXTENSION SPEC., RURAL
CREDIT SPEC.,
ECONOMIST,
PROCUREMENT SPEC.
March 1995               1   ECONOMIST
June 1995                3   TASK MANAGER, 2
ECONOMISTS, AG.
EXTENSION
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal               15   TASK MANAGER,
June 1996                    ECONOMIST,EXTENSION
NATURAL RESOURCES,
FORESTER, AG
ECONOMIST,
ENVIRONMENTALIST,
DRAINAGE, FINANCIAL
SPECIALIST, LAND
REFORM SPECIALIST,
PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST, LAND &
WATER ASSOCIATION
SPECIALIST,
2 RESIDENT MISSION,
RURAL CREDIT
-29-



SPECIALIST
Supervision
08/08/1996              4   TASK MANAGER (1);             S           S
M&E SPECIALIST (1);
EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
PROCURENT SPEC. (1)
04/25/1997              4   DISBURSEMENT SPEC.(I);        S           S
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
TASK MANAGER (1); LAND
REFORM SPEC. (I)
10/17/1997              4   LAND REFORM SPEC. (1);        S          S
ENVIRONMENT SPEC.(1);
TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
06/24/1998               2  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S           S
EXTENSION SPECIALIST (I)
12/23/1998              2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S           S
LAND & WATER ENGINEER
(1)
06/18/1999               1  TASK TEAM LEADER (1)          S           S
11/19/1999               7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S          S
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
OPERATIONS SPEC. (1); FMS
(2); EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
LAND REFORM SPEC. (1)
04/20/2000               3  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S           S
FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);
LAND REFORM SPEC. (1)
07/07/2000               1  EXTENSION SPECIALIST (1)      S           S
08/10/2000               1  LAND REFORM SPEC. (1)
10/31/2000              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S           S
FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC. (I);
LAND REFORM SPEC. (1);
EXTENSION SPEC. (2)
06/20/2001               4  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S           S
PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
LAND REFORM SPEC (1);
FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC (1)
10/19/2001              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S          S
FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
LAND REFORM SPEC (1);
EXTENSION SPEC. (1); AG.
ECONOMIST (1)
04/30/2002               5  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        HS          HS
FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
LAND REFORM SPEC. (1);
EXTENSION SPEC. (1); AG.
ECONOMIST (1)
ICR
- 30 -



10/18/2002                  2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            HS            HS
ECONOMIST (1)
(b) Staff:
'Stage .of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimnate.
._._._._,_,_._,_._.._... No. Staf week:.                 -U,S ('00a)
Identification/Preparation               n.a.               LEN BB-784
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n.a.                LEN TF-425
Supervision                             n.a.                 SPN BB-383
ICR                                      n.a.         SPN TF & FAO-353
Total                                    n.a.                  BB-1,167
I___  TF & FAO-778
With the introduction of SAP, breakdowns between the stages in lending and between supervision and the
ICR are no longer possible.
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                     O H   OSUOM O N      * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM O N O NA
L Physical                           * H OSUOM O N O NA
OL Financial                          O H  *SUOM O N O NA
O Institutional Development          * H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
OL Poverty Reduction            O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Gender                        O H O SU * M O N O NA
OL Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Private sector development          0 H O SU O M O N 0 NA
OL Public sector management           0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N        * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS*S        OU    OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS*S        OU    OHU
f Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       O u   O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, February 6, 1996 (Report No. 14954-EE).
2. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, December 15, 1995.
3. President's Report, February 6, 1996 (Report No. P-6761 -EE).
4. Loan Agreement, August 7, 1996. (Amended September 25, 1997; March 16, 1998; October 19,
2001; and Decermber 19, 2001.)
5. Estonia Agriculture and Forestry Sector Review, May 16, 1995 (Report No. 13316-EE).
6. Estonia Agricultural and Forerstry Policy Update, February 26, 1997 (EC4NR Agriculture Policy
Note #10).
7. The Estonian Rural Sector, ECSSD, August 10, 1998 (Rural Development and Environment Sector
Working Paper No. 5).
8. Estonia: The Transition to a Market Economy, World Bank Country Study, 1993 (ISSN 0253-2123).
9. Estonian Wetland Inventory 1997, Tartu 1998.
10. Republic of Estonia, Ministry of Agriculture & Kingdom of the Netherlands, Ministry of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture, Nature Management and Fisheries, "Integrated Drainage and Land
Development Pilot Project in Estonia," Tallinn, 2001.
11. Quarterly Project Management Reports (PIU).
12. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires and PSRs
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8. Statistical Data used for the Economic and Financial Evaluation
Table 1. Estonia Agriculture Project- Monitoring Indicators
Unit   Projected  Actual/Latest Actual as %
Indicator                                             In SAR     Estimates    of SAR
Land Reform                                       _
Area of land registered in Cadastre (Project only)  ha  150,000     169,943        113
Land registered in WB drainage sites           ha        60,000      64,040        107
Drainage Rehabilitation Component
Open drains rehabilitated                      km         2,500       2,742        110
Subsurface drains rehabilitated                km           120         125        104
Registered LWAs - scheme area covered          ha        60,000     102,762        171
Area maintained by LWAs                        ha        60,000      81,035        135
Land Management Component
Area accepted for design                       ha        60,000      86,160        144
Area accepted for civil works                  ha        60,000      80,397        134
Sites under screening (before, during, after works)  no.     60          76        127
No. of water samples taken from sites          no.        1,163       1,755        151
Water tests passing minimum standard           no.        1,027       1,596        155
Sites requiring remediation                    no.            0           2          -
Advisory Services Component
PASDF contracts funded                         no.       10,000      13,572        136
Number of farmers served                       no.        5,000      10,515        210
Farmer satisfaction level with advisory services  score    80%         88%         110
Farmers' willingness to pay higher contract portion  score  50%        60%         120
Food Quality and Veterinary Control Component
Accredited methods                             no.          190         180         95
Parameters analyzed in food samples            no.         555c         420         76
Food samples analyzed ('000)                   no.        1,334       1,585        119
Total analyses ('000)                          no.        4,813       5,876        122
Source: PIU.
-35-



Table 2. Land Use in Drainage Rehabilitation Areas before Project
County       Sites        Cultivable Land   Arable Land   Grassland     Unused
Number Area    Total    Cultivated                           Cultivable Land
(ha)   (ha)   (ha)   (%)    (ha)   (%)   (ha)  I(%)   (ha)  (%)
Hadu         5     4,495  4,090   2,982  72.9   328    8.0  2,654  64.9  1,108  27.1
Ida-Viru     4     3,420  3,195  2,258   70.7   681   21.3  1,577  49.4   937   29.3
J6geva       5     4,825   4,565  3,942  86.4  1,611  35.3  2,331  51.1    623   13.6
Jarva        5     6,551   6,010  5,613  93.4  2,192  36.5  3,421  56.9    397  6.60
Laane        5     4,545  4,139  3,422   82.7  1,2461 30.1  2,176  52.6   717   17.3
Laane-Viru   2     2,775  2,621  2,020   77.1   546   20.8  1,474  56.2   604   23.0
P6ova        5     4,431  4,243  3,054   72.0  2,098  49.4   956   22.5  1,189  28.0
Parnu        10   10,383  9,596   7,114  74.1  1,822  19.0  5,292  55.1  2,482  25.9
Rapla l4     8    12,234  11,345  9,414  83.0  2,258  19.9  7,156  63.1  1,928   127
Saare        4     3,479   3,219  2,534  78.7   295    9.2  2,239  69.6    685  32.4
Tartu L.     8     8,715   8,006  6,326  79.0  3,812  47.6  2,514  31.4  1,680   32.0
Valga        4     3,845   3,628  2,684  74.0  1,238  34.1  1,446  39.9    944  36.0
Viljandi     6     6,562   6,236  4,638  74.4  2,027  32.5  2,611  41.9  1,598  35.6
Voru         5     4,775   4,530  3,317  73.2  2,348  51.8   969   21.4  1,213  26.8
Total     76   81,035  75,423 59,318  78.6  22502  29,8 36,816  48.8 16,105   21.4
Ii Includes one pilot site implemented during project preparation.
Table 3. Land Use in Drainage Rehabilitation Areas after Project
County       Sites        Cultivable Land    Arable Land   Grassland      Unused
Number Area     Total   Cultivated                             Cultivable Land
(ha)   (ha)   (ha)   (%)    (ha)  (%)    (ha)  (%)     (ha)  (%)
Harju        5     4,495  4,090   3,562  87.1    589  14.4   2,973  72.7   528    12.9
Ida-Viru     4     3,420   3,195  2,364  74.0    642  20.1   1,722  53.9   831    26.0
J6geva       5     4,825   4,565  4,297  94.11  1,743  38.2  2,554  44.9   268     5.9
Jarva        5     6,551   6,010  5,909  98.3   2,254  37.5  3,655  60.8   101     1.7
L33ne        5     4,545  4,139   4,056  98.0   1,380  33.3  2,676  64.7    83     2.0
L33ne-Viru   2     2,775  2,621   2,356  89.9    661  25.2   1,695  64.7   265    10.1
Polva        5     4,431  4,243   3,433  80.9   2,160  50.9  1,273  30.0   810    19.1
Pamu        10     10,383  9,596  8,624  89.9   2,494  26.0  6,130  63.9   972    10.1
Rapla /L     8     12,234  11,345  10.133  89.3  2,949  26.0  7,184  63.3  1,212  10.7
Saare        4     3,479   3,219  3,075  95.5    277   8.6   2,798  86.9   144     4.5
Tartu /1     8     8,715   8,006  6,792  84.8   4,499  56.2  2,293  28.6  1,214   15.2
Valga        4     3,845   3,628  3,356  92.5   1,750  48.2  1,606  44.3   272     7.5
Viljandi     6     6,562   6,236  5,528  88.6   2,284  36.6  3,244  52.0   708    11.4
Voru         5     4,775   4,530  4,062  89.7   2,283  50.4  1,779  39.3   468    10.3
Total           81,035 75,423 67,547  89.6  25,965  34.4  41,582  55.1  7,876  10.4
/I Includes one pilot site implemented during project preparation.
- 36 -



Table 4. Production Cost per ha (2002 Prices)
0
$  o  z  o    t 2    2     ~~~~E  E                                      >L = 0 2 o E 8 r
FrlzsMar h 93 920   0 4
a)         a                        0 
0~~~i 
Veterinaoy Expenses  hd.              !    i1                                              34 510 EL
Animal Feed  hd.                                        2,179 415 36 2  U  1,8
Total Production  t     ha  2,818 2,739 1,918 1,746 1,897 2,703 2,417   585 15,982  15,001 2,370  3.776 711 6,999 2,526
Seeds, planting material  ha  417   290   355   314   589    329   700   11    164   5,052
Energy, lubricants      ha   547    606   484   452   413   548    440  157   8,259  3,329 1,095    595  117 1,228   240
Fertilizers & Manure    ha    953   953   260   260   260   476    476   98   1,071  1,892   244
Plant Protection        ha     48    36    57    24    30    209    30   11    117     283   329
Veterinary Expenses     hd.                                                                         306   34   510     79
Animal Feed             hd.                                                                       2,179 415 3,632 1,855
Equipment mainten.      ha   219    244   192   183   167   247    175   71    543   1,074   119    128   38   446    67
Building maintenance    ha     66    74    58    55    50     75    53   21    164     324    36     38   12   134    20
AgOcultural Services    ha   412    388   372   332   281    595   395  156   4,108  2,210   397    213   38   476     59
Other goods and serv.   ha    156   147   141   126   106   225    149   59   1,555    837   150     81   14   180     22
Depreciation            ha   911    911   911   911   911   911    911 409   2,486   2,278          290 290 1,115    234
Hired Labor             ha    272   317   241   232   219   278    210  165 17,476   2,766   702    557  227 2,274   275
Taxes on production     ha     21    18    20    18    28     27    27   18    336     106    73      5         80      2
Subsidies on products   ha    368   390   343   373   389    539   445                  18                     918
Other subsidies         ha     23    20    21    19    30     29    30   1 9   368     116    79      6         88      2
Rent                    ha     22    18    20    18    28    27     28   18    343     108    74      5    0    82      2
Interest paid           ha     80    68    74    67   104   102    102   67   1,272    401   275     20    0   304      6
Source: Amelioration Bureau, Tartu.
(A price correction factor of 1.095 was applied to bring 2000 prices to 2001 levels.)
- 37 -



Table 5. Total Project Cost in Current Terms (In DM million equivalent)
Co mponents                           1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002|TOTAL
1 Land Reform                      0.03      0.32      0.11     0.34      2.60      1.70      5.10
2 Farm Drainage Rehabilitation     3.08      5.27      5.35      2.08      0.94     0.08     16.79
3 Land Use Management              0.11      0.91      0.16      0.06      0.04      -        1.28
4 Agricultural Advisoy Services    1.28      2.18      2.26      1.99      1.70     0.94     10.34
5 Food Quality & Veterinary Control  -       2.05  1   1.58      4.76      2.56     2.68     13.63
6 Project Management               0.10      0.12      0.03      0.07      0.05     0.04      0.41
Total                            4.60     10.84      9A9       9.30      7.88     5.44     47.55
WB Loan In Current Terms
1 Land Reform                       -        0.21      0.06     0.21       1.92     1.54      3.93
2 Farm Drainage Rehabilitation     1.82      3.14      3.21      1.18      0.75     0.00     10.10
3 Land Use Management              0.11      0.90      0.15      0.04     0.03       -        1.22
4 Agricultural Advisory Services   0.08      0.59      0.74      0.55      1.05     0.60      3.61
5 Food Quality & Veterinary Control  -       1.17      0.80      0.52      0.59     0.05      3.13
6 Project Management               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.01   - 0.00      0.00
Total                            2.00      6.02      4.95      2.50      4.34     2.20     22.00
Govemment of Estonia Contribution in Current Terms
1 Land Reform                      0.03      0.11      0.05     0.13      0.68      0.18      1.18
2 Farm Drainage Rehabilitation     0.75      1.23      1.25      0.48      0.10     0.04      3.85
3 Land Use Management           _            0.01      0.02      0.02      0.01   _           0.06
4 Agricultural Advisory Services   0.59      1.13      1.13      1.03      0.46     0.25      4.59
. Food Quality & Veterinary Control          0.88      0.78      4.24      1.97     2.63     10.50
6 Proect Management             _            0.02      0.03      0.07      0.05     0.04      0.21
_Total                            1.37      3.38      3.27      5.97     3.26      3.14     20.39
Other Donor Funding EU Phare, In Current Terms
1 Land Reform                  j    -                         _      |  |                   ______I
2 Farm Drainage Rehabilitation   _         _         _         _        -         _______
3 Land Use Manage ment          |                       -                        I   -         -    I
4 Agricultural Advisoy Services    054       0.18  |           -  |  -  |   -    |   -        0.72
e rFood Quality & Veterinary Control | -      - 
6 Project Management               0.10      0.09  |           -         _        _  _     |  0.20
_ Total              |              0.64      0.27        |                _ __                0.91
Farmers' Contribution In Current Terms
1 Land Reform rn                           _     
2 Farm Drainage Rehabilitation     0.51      0.89      0.89      0.42      0.09     0.04      2.84
r3 Land Use Management           _         _         _         _______
4 Agricultural Advisoy Services    0.08      0.28      0.38      0.41      0.19      0.07      1 .41
i Food Quality & Veterinary Control |_-____        -      -_T_I -                 _            -    1
6 Project Management            __- __I__  -__I_I_I
ITotal                            0.59      1.17  |   1.27  |  0.84   |  0.28   |  0.11      4 4.25  |
Source: PIU.
- 38 -



Table 6. Annual Project Cost in Current Terms (million EEK)
Components                     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002   TOTAL
Land Reform                     0.253    2.53   0.881   2.729  20.768  13.653  40.815
Farm Drainage Rehabilitation   24.606  42.161  42.802  16.618   7.499   0.618 134.303
Land Use Management              0.86   7.253   1.316   0.461   0.336    -      10.226
Agricultural Advisory Services  10.22  17.441  18.052  15.904  13.576   7.491  82.684
Food Quality & Veterinary Control  -   16.383  12.613  38.075  20.491  21.512 109.074
Project Management              0.838   0.941   0.275   0.609   0.308   0.291   3.262
Total                          36.777  86.709  75.939  74.396  62.978  43.565 380.364
Table 7. Estimated Annual Project Cost in Current and in Constant 2002 Prices
Year    Consumer   Inflator  Annual Project Cost Annual Project Cost in
Price /1           in Current Terms /2  Constant 2002 Terms
mill. EEK           mill. EEK
1997      100.0     1.27           36.8                46.7
1998      108.2     1.18           86.7                102.3
1999      111.8     1.14           75.9                86.5
2000      116.2     1.10           74.4                81.8
2001      123.0     1.03           63.0                64.9
2002      127.2     1.00           43.6                43.6
/1 Source: Central Bank of Estonia.
/2 See Table 6 for details.
Table 8. Cropping Pattern without and with Project
Crops                   Without Project       With Project
ha        %          ha        %
Cereals      Winter rye               2,372.00  4.00       2,160.00  3.20
Winter wheat             1,245.30   2.10      2,700.00  4.00
Summer wheat             2,253.40   3.80      3,577.50  5.30
Barley                  11,385.60  19.20     14,040.00  20.80
Oats                     3,735.90   6.30      5,062.50  7.50
Triticale                    0.00   0.00       472.50   0.70
Mixed grain              1,482.50   2.50       675.00    1.00
Other Crops Legumes (mainly peas)      593.00    1.00       405.00   0.60
Rape                       533.70   0.90      2,970.00  4.40
Potatoes                 2,431.30   4.10      2,295.00  3.40
Vegetables                 296.50   0.50       337.50   0.50
Forage Crops Fodder                    593.00    1.00       337.50   0.50
Grain for feed             711.60   1.20       607.50   0.90
Hay                     31,666.20  53.40     31,860.00  47.20
TOTAL       I_59,300.001                        100.00    67,500.00  100.00
Source: MOA.
- 39 -



Table 9. Derivation Import of Parity Prices of Urea
Projected World Price (2005)                Units     Urea
In 1990 constant US$ /1                   US$/MT      119.4
Adj. factor (October 2002 US$ /2           index      III,2
In constant October 2002 US$              US$/MT      132.8
World Market Equivalent                   US$/MT      132.8
Intemational shipping                     US$/MT      30.0
Cif Tallin                                US$/MT      162.8
Exchange Rate /3                          EEK/UJS$     16
Cif Tallin                                 EEK/kg      2.6
Port charges, handling an intemational transport  EEKllg  0.3
Wholesale value                            EEK/kg      2.9
Local marketing/transport                  EEK/kg      0.1
Economic Farmgate Price                    EEK/kg      3
Financial Farmgate Price                   EEK/kg      3
Conversion factor                                      1
/I World Bank price forecasts February 2002.
/2 Inflated by MUV index.
/3 Exchange rate October 2002 (US$1 = EEK 16.0).
Table 10. Import Parity Price of Main Cereals /1
Projected World Price 2005                 Unit     Barley   Wheat
FOB Canada ports in 1990 constant US$      US$        104.0     135.5
Adjustment factor (October 2002 US$) 12   index       111.2     111.2
FOB October 2002                           US$        115.6     150.7
Insurance and freight                      US$         30.0      30.0
Price CIF                                 US$/t       145.6     180.7
Price CIF /3                             EEK/kg         2.3       2.9
Transport /4                             EEK/kg         0.2       0.2
Price at storage L5                      EEK/kg         2.5       3.1
Transport farm - storage /6              EEKlkg        -0.2      -0.3
Marketing expenses UL                    EEK/kg        -0.2      -0.3
Margin /8                                EEK/kg        -0.4      -0.5
Farmgate price: Economic                 EEK/kg         1.7       2.0
Farmgate price: Financial                EEK/kg         1.5       1.7
Conversion Factor                          ratio       1.13      1.18
/1 Estonia is a net importer of cereals.
l2 World Bank: MUV index.
a US$1 = EEK 16.0
/4 10% of cif.
/5 At main storage.
/6 Average 100 km; estimated at 8% of cost of storage.
/7 8% of storage cost.
/@ 16% of price at storage.
-40 -



Table 11. Estimated Gross Value of Production Without and With Project
Without Project                   With Project
Prices
Crops           EEK/ton 1i Area i2  Yields Product.  Gross  Area /2 Yields Product.  Gross
(ha)   (tlha)  (tons)  Value    (ha)   (tUha)  (tons)  Value
-          -      -     (EEIVOOO)  -                    (EEK'000)
Cereals                     22,475          _        80,183  28,686                 124,769
Winter Rye         1,600    2,372    2.1   4,981    7,970   2,160    2.3   4,968     7,949
Winter Wheat       2,000    1,245    2.5   3,113    6,225   2,700    2.8   7,560    15,120
Summer Wheat       2,000    2,253    2.7   6,083   12,166   3,577   3.0   10,731   21,462
Bariey             1,500   11,386    1.6  18,218   27,326  14,040   2.2   30,888   46,332
Oats               2;400    3,736    2.3   8,593   20,623   5,062   2.4   12,149   29,157
Mixed Cereals      1,800    1,483    2.2   3,263    5,873   1,147   2.3    2,638    4,749
Other Crops                  3,854                  101,937  6,008                  138,655
Legumes L     -    7,500     593    2.5    1,483   11,119    405    2.7    1,094    8,201
Rapes              3,800     534     2.0   1,068    4,058   2,970   2.2    6,534   24,829
Potatoes           1,500    2,431   16.0  38,896   58,344   2,295  20.0   45,900   68,850
Vegetables         6,400     296    15.0   4,440   28,416    338    17.0   5,746   36,774
Forage Crops                32,971 1                96,317  32,806                  147,961
Fodder (dry)        400      593   30.0   17,790    7,116    338   30.0   10,140    4,056
Grain for feed     2,600     712     2.0   1,424    3,702    608    2.2    5,720   14,872
Hay                  675   31,666   4.0  126,664   85,498  31,860   6.0 191,160   129,033
Total                 59,300                 278,437  67,500                 411,384
/L Details on calculation of economic prices of cereals are given in Table 10.
2 Details are given in table 8.
/3 Mainly peas.
-41 -



Table 12. Estimated Production Costs in Economic Terms Without and With Project
Without Project                     With Project
Area (ha)  Production  Total Prod.  Area (ha)  Production  Total Prod.
Crops                           Li       Costs 12    Costs        Li       Costs a2     Costs
(EEK/ha)   EEKOOO    _             (EEK/ha)  ('000 EEK)
Cereals                          22,475                 48,164      28,686                68,536
Winter Rye                      2,372       2,739      6,497       2,160      2,900       6,264
Winter Wheat                     1,245      2,818       3,508      2,700       3,100      8,370
Summer Wheat                     2,253      3,100       6,984      3,577       3,400     12,162
Barley                          11,386      1,918     21,838      14,040      2,110      29,624
Oats                             3.736      1,746      6,523       5,062       1,920      9,719
Mixed Cereals                    1.483      1,897      2,813       1,147      2,090       2,397
Other Crops                       3,854                 44,075      6,0081                62,671
Legumes (mainly peas)  _593                 2,417       1,433       405        3,140      1,272
Rapes                             534       2,703       1,443      2,970       3,240      9,623
Potatoes                        2,431      15,001     36,467       2,295      19,500     44,753
Vegetables                        296      15,982       4,731        338      20,780      7,024
Forage Crops __32,971                                   25,876     32,806t                32,992
Fodder (dry matter)               593        585         347        338         760        257
Grain for feed                    712       2,500       1,780        608       2,750      1,672
Hay                             31,666 -      75t]    23,750      31,860        975      31,064
Total                            59,3001 _             118,115i     67,500                164,199
/1 Details are given in table 8.
/2 Details are given in table 4.
-42 -



Table 13. Economic Rate of Return
Year   Investment|      Gross Value  Production I Balance  I Incremental  IRR
Cost /I    of Production 121  Costs /3         -   Balance
(EEK million)
0          0.0           278.4       118.1       160.3       0.0    14.6%
1        46.7           278.4        118.1      113.6      -46.7
2        102.3           278.4       118.1       58.0     -102.3
3         86.5          295.0        123.8       84.7      -75.6
4         81.8           311.6       129.4       100.4     -59.9
5         64.9          328.2        135.1       128.2     -32.1
6         43.6           344.8       140.7       160.5       0.2
7          0.0           361.4       146.4      215.0       54.7
8          0.0          378.1        152.0      226.1       65.8
9          0.0          394.8        157.7      237.1       76.8
10         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
11         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
12         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
13         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
14         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
15         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
16         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
17         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
18         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
19         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
20         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9 _    _
21         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
22         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
23         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
24         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.9
25         0.0           411.4        164.2      247.2       86.91
Ll Details are given in Table 6.
/2 Details are given in Table 11.
/3 Details are given in Table 12.
-43 -



Additional Annex 9. Quantitative lInformation on Individual Project Components
Graph 1. Land Registered in the Cadastre, September 2002
(in % of total, by County)
.. ,'    ' ',-7- -  7.'- ; O .^ 
- 1 sU- * t RAP APLAF1tAA
6 t     J     63%'       ti*r Af .,
. & "\      r -I                       , PARr,p _ 0iA.
, '                                   - '~   . .  ' '  I  '  <'  ' I  N   2
l-              ;.                         2'                            -L[
-7 ~ ~ ~~I
Table 1. Drainage Rehabilitation Program, 1995-2001
|   19951   19961    19971   19981    1999|   20001    20011  Total
Design
No. of schemes                               2       15      20       21      15       13       0       86
hectares                                 4,024   18,962  23,434   21,464   10,797  10,953       0   89,634
Civil works                                                                                        I
No. of schemes                                        2      15       20      21       15       3       76
hectares                                          4,216  18,942   23434   21,531   10,325   2,587    81,035
Cost ('000 EEK)                              501    4,100  23,858   37,989  38,444   19,025   4,078   127,995
Design                                    501       0    2,531    2,407    1,289   1,425       0     8,153
Civil works                                      3,961  20,368   33,944  35,484   16,760   3,882   114,399
Works supervision                                  139     959    1,638    1,671     840     196     5,443
No. of functioning LWAs                       I 1     29       61       78      90      103     104
Maintenance Expenditures ('000 EEK)                                                        I
Government                              10,582   10,283   8,459   10,878   6,70     6,704   7,070   60,679
-44 -



Table 2. PASDF Advisory Contracts Approved 1996-2001
County       1996     1997     1998     1999     2000    2001     Total
Harjumaa            120      140      149     132      119       61      721
Hiiumaa              18       24      35       39       18       12      146
Ida-Virumaa          63       70      71       90       67       40      401
J6gevamaa            94      189      175     142       83       37      720
Jarvamaa            153      254     281      264      217      105    1,274
Laanemaa             63       91      99       76       75       37      441
La5ne-Virumaa       114      116     185      180      132      122      849
P6lvamaa            270      166     187      172      153      128    1,076
Parnumaa            100      170     219      218      131       89      927
Raplamaa           223      391      437      453      416      230    2,150
Saaremaa             50      109     142      215      235      135      886
Tartumaa            154      192     243      168      136       82      975
Valgamaa            124      134     221      181      207      110      977
Viljandimaa         142     201      278      206      195      120    1,142
V6rumaa             135      159      172     153      166      102      887
Total        1,823    2,406    2,894    2,689    2,350    1,410   13,572
Table 3. PASDF Trends 1996 - 2004
___________________________1996  1997 1998   1999   2000  2001   2002  2003   2004
SAR                                                                                     _
Contract Limit per Farmer (EEK)     2,200  2,200  2,200  2,200  2,200  2,200  2,200  2,200  2,200
Farmer Self-payryi6nt (%)             10    15     20    25     30    40     55    75    100
Farmer Self-payment (EEK)            220   330    440   550    660   880   1,210  1,650  2,200
PASDF Grant (%)                       90    85     80    75     70    60     45    25      0
PASDF Grant (EEK)                   1,980  1,870  1,760  1,650  1,540  1,320  990  550     0
Actual                                         _
Number of Contracts (No.)           1,823  2,406  2,894  2,689  2,350  1,410  ..
Total PASDF Subsidy Paid ('000 EEK)  2,635  5,606  6,652  6,047  5,642  3,5611
Total Farmer Payments (000 EEK)      315   583   1,463  1,674  1,542  1,495  ..
Total Contract Payments ('000 EEK)  2,950  6,189  8,115  7,721  7,184  5,056  ..
First Contract Limit per Farmer (EEK)  2,200  3,000  3,000  3,000  3,000  4,000  4,0001
Farmer payment, first contract (%)    10    10     15    15     15    20     25
Farmer payment, first contract (EEK)  220  300    450   450    450   800   1,000
Second Contract Limit per Farmer (EEK)  -     - 3,000  6,000  6,000  8,000  8,000
Farmer payment, second contract (%)-               40    50     50    50     50
Farmer payment, second contract (EEK)  _ -       1,200  3,000  3,000  4,000  4,000 C
Average Amount of Contract (EEK)    1,618  2,572  2,804  2,871  3,057  3,586  .
Average subsidy per contract (EEK)  1,445  2,330  2,299  2,249  2,401  2,526  .
Average subsidy per contract (%)      89    91     82    78     79    70     ..
Farmer Contribution (%)               11     9     18    22     21    30 1
-45 -



Table 4. PADSF Client Surveys: Satisfaction with the Advice Received
Year and Question           completely generally difficult generally completely responses
yes       yes     to say    not       not
2000: Were you satisfied with the advice?  75.8%    20.3%    2.0%     1.3%      0.6%       892
1999: Were you satisfied with the advice?  76.1%    19.9%    1.7%     1.8%      0.5%       760
1998: Were you satisfied with the advice?  49.0%   41.7%     6.5%     1.6%      1.1%       1093
1997: How were you satisfied ... with the  32.1%   53.8%     7.9%     4.5%      1.7%       757
accordance of the advice with your needs
and possibilities
1996: Were you satisfied with the advice?  35.0%   53.0%     7.0%     4.0%                88, in 3
__________________________________                 counties
Satisfaction with advice
1996: Were you satisfied with the advice?
1997: How were you satisfied ... with the accordance of
the advice with your needs and possibilifies
1998: Were you satisfied with the advice?
1999: Were you satisfied with the advice?
2000: Were you satisfied with the advice?
0%      20%      40%      60%      80%     100%
|O completely yes  * generally yes  0 difficult to say  O generally not  * completely not|
-46 -



Table 5. PADSF Client Surveys: Satisfaction with the Specific Advisor
Year and Question           completely generally difficult generally completely responses
yes       yes     to say    not       not
2000: Do you wish, that the same advisor  80.10%    12.30%   4.30%    1.10%     2.10%       885
continues to advice you hereafter
1999: Do you wish, that the same advisor  76.20%   14.20%    6.20%    1.90%     1.50%       753
continues to advise you hereafter
1998: Do you wish to continue cooperation  68.70%  14.90%   11.80%    2.60%     2.10%      1089
with the same advisor?
1997: Do you wish to continue cooperation  57.50%  20.20%    9.70%    7.20%     5.30%       751
with the same advisor as last year
Cooperation with adviser
1997: Do you wish to continue cooperaton with the same
advisor as last year
1998: Do you wish to continue cooperation with the same
advisor?
1999: Do you wish, that the same advisor continues to
advise you hereafter
2000: Do you wish, that the same advisor continues to
advice you hereafter
0%      20%     40%     60%      80%     100%
I completely yes  * generally yes  0 difficult to say  0 generally not  * completely not
-47 -



-48 -



Repopr ND.:  -     25182
Type:       -t



