Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14954-EE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1996
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



ClJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit      Estonian Kroon (EEK)
DM  I       EEK 8 (as of June 30, 1995)
IS $ 1       T'EK 11.08 (as of June 30, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha                 Hectare
Kg                 Kilogram
ESTONIAN FISCAL YEAR
January I - Decemllber 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANI) ACRONYMS
.1! Amnelioratiokn Bureaux of Ministry    GEF       CGlobal Environment Facility
of' AgricullUre (county-level)   GOE       Government of Estonia
'PI  1  AgrIicultural and Rural Li'e Credit  ICR    International C'ompetitive Bidding
F"und                            I(CR      Implemeintation Completion
N      'Country Assistance Strategy               Report
(ontract Admiinlistrationi Ulnit  IS       International Shopping
E I)  C'ouCntO Envirorrnmental         LAli      Land Amelioration UJnit
Department                       IL\W'A     Land and Water Association
.1      DC L)euschIe Mark                  M&:E     Monitorinig and Evaluation
! V     D)cpartment of Ernvironmient and   MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
Wlterl                            MOE      Ministry of Environment
Fnvironmnental Imlpact Analysis   MOI      Ministry of Finance
' \    E.uropean 1icre T'rade Association    NA FTP   National Agriculture Extension
i 1    Estonian Naitioniai Land Board               Task Force
ikl      I;corioinic Rate of Return      NCB       National Competitive Bidding
i       Euro()peal1  m 711onl             NG(O      Non-Governmiental Organization
P Phare) Euiropean I nion's Assistance    NS        National Shopping
Program folr (Central Europe and  O&M      Operations & Maintenance
thle TRaltIc (Ountries            PASDF   Private Advisory Service
.I -d   I'und I'Mr Innovative Approches in          Development Fund
I IumL1an1 and Sociall Developmenit    P1l   Project Implementation Unit
F\    I'hlFinaial Ratle of RetUrn       lS('      Project Steering Committee
.1o 0ilorcr Sovict I nion(        SA       Special Account
FOP     Gross l)onicstic P'rodluct         SO)l     Statemenit of Expenditure



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN  AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   .....................................i
BACKGROUND  ..............................................1
A. Country Context .................................1
B. Agriculture ................................                                                     2
C. Agro-Enterprises ................................ 6
D. Land Reform  ................................ 6
E. Rural Finance ................................ 7
F. Environment ................................                                                     8
G. Bank Strategy and Experience in Estonia  .              .........................   9
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ...............................    10
II.     THE PROJECT  ....................................  12
A. Project Origin and Formulation ...............................  12
B. Project Objective ...............................  12
C. Detailed Project Description ................................ 13
D. Project Costs           ...............                      ................  20
E. Financing ................................                                                     20
F. Procurement ............................... 22
G. Disbursements            ...............                      ................  25
H. Environmental Aspects  ...............                          ................  26
I. Poverty Impact  ...............................  27
J. Gender and Family Issues ................................ 28
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission in June 1995. Members of the Appraisal team were
Brian Berman (Task Manager), Florian Grohs (Economist), Willem Zijp (Extension Specialist) and George Bestari
(Project Management Consultant). Pre-appraisal assistance was received from Bank staff: Louis Carbonnier
(Forestry Specialist), Peter Hopcraft (Agricultural Economist), Stephen Lintner (Environment Specialist), Walter
Ochs (Drainage Specialist), Hillar Lauri (Operations Officer), Jo Ann Paulson (Financial Sector Specialist), Omar
Razzaz (Land Reform Specialist), Kathleen McPhail and Miranda Munro (Participation and Social Assessment
Specialists), Karin Shepardson (YP Environment Specialist) and Ashok Subrammanian (Farmers Organization
Specialist). Detailed component design was carried out by Government teams in the Ministries of Agriculture and
Environment with assistance from the Bank's own resources, the Bank's cooperative program with FAO, EU
(Phare), bilateral assistance from Germany, and with consultants funded from the Trust Funds of Austria, Denmark,
Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Peer Reviewers were John Hansen, Severin
Kodderitzsch and Stephen Lintner. The Division Chief is Geoffrey Fox and the Country Director is Basil Kavalsky.



III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..................................  29
A. Organization and Management ..............................   29
B. Line Implementing Agencies ................................ 30
C. Participation ...............................                                32
D. Implementation Schedule ............................... 32
E. Accounts and Audit .............................. 32
F. Reporting and Evaluation ............................... 32
G. Bank Supervision ............................... 33
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS .35
A. Benefits and Justification .35
B. Financial and Economic Farm Model Analysis .36
C. Analysis of Benefits by Component .37
D. Risks .40
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED  .................................... 42
A. Agreements reached during negotiations ............................ 42
B. Condition of Board Presentation  ............................... 43
C. Conditions of Effectiveness  ............................. .. 43
D. Conditions of Disbursement ............................. .. 43
E. Recommendation .44
List of Tables:
2.1          Proposed Phase Out of Government Contribution to Private Agricultural
Advisor Service Cost .18
2.2    Project Cost Summary .20
2.3   Project Financing .21
2.4           Procurement Arrangements .23
2.5           Disbursement Categories .25
2.6           Estimated Disbursements .26
ANNEXES - VOLUME I
o  Annex  1 Complementary Donor-funded Technical Assistance
o  Annex 2 Project Objectives and Development Indicators
o  Annex 3 Economic and Financial Analysis
o  Annex 4 Environmental Review
o  Annex 5 TOR for Project Management
o  Annex 6 Detailed Project Cost Tables
o  Annex 7 Summary of Major Procurement Packages



ANNEXES - VOLUME II - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
o Implementation Plan Summary
o Supervision Schedule
o Project Organization & Management Chart
o PIP 1 - Land Reform
o PIP 2 - Farnn Drainage Rehabilitation
o PIP 3 - Advisory Services
o PIP 4 - Food Quality Control and Veterinary Laboratory
MAP - IBRD #27129






REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:        Republic of Estonia.
Implementing
Agencies:        Ministries of Agriculture and Environment.
Beneficiaries:    Private farmers, farmers' land &  water associations, farmer's cooperatives,
agricultural advisors and the Ministries of Agriculture and Enviromnent.
Poverty:         Not applicable.
Amount:          DEM 22 million (US $15.3 million).
Terms:           Payable in seventeen years, with five years grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based interest rate for a Deutsche Mark single currency loan
Commitment Fee: 0.75%  on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Financing Plan:  See para. 2.30.
Net Present Value The ERR of the farm model analysis is estimated at 16%, and the ERR for the farm
drainage rehabilitation component is estimated at 23 %.
Staff Appraisal   14954-EE
Report:
Map:            IBRD # 27129






ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND'
A. Country Context
1.1           The Republic of Estonia lies on the Eastern shores of the Baltic Sea and shares borders
with Latvia and Russia. Estonia has a territory of 45,000 square kilometers, almost the size of the
Netherlands. About one third of its 1.5 million population live in rural areas.
1.2           Since regaining independence in August 1991, Estonia has followed an open and liberal
reform path. It has successfully stabilized its currency, and has liberalized all agricultural commodity
prices, while creating competitive markets based on minimal barriers of entry, and free internal and
external trade. After declining in 1992 and 1993, real output in Estonia began to recover in 1994 and an
annual growth of about 5% is projected for 1995 and 1996. The unemployment rate (adjusted for recorded
jobseekers), has decreased from between 8% to 9% in 1993 to around 6% in the fourth quarter of 1995.
After a sharp decline in 1992, real wages have increased broadly in line with productivity. Annual
inflation has continued to decline reaching 48% in 1994 and falling further to 29% in 1995.
1.3           The recovery of output is underpinned by sound economic policies. The stability of the
currency is being supported by monetary and fiscal policies consistent with the operations of the country's
currency board arrangement. External trade and payments policies are liberal, with no tariff or non-tariff
barriers. Sectoral policies are aimed at creating and supporting a viable private sector and the service
sector in particular has developed rapidly. Privatization of former state-owned enterprises and non-land
properties has nearly been completed. Urban and rural land properties are being restituted to their former
owners, however, this process has been slower than expected.
1.4           Estonian agriculture contributes to economic growth and provides low-priced agricultural
products for the mainly urban population. Furthermore, exports of agricultural, forestry and food products
contribute significantly to total export earnings, while budget allocations to agriculture amount to less than
5% of the state budget, which is quite small in international comparison. Estonian agricultural policy-
makers are committed to continuing their liberal agricultural policy and pursuing the goal of closer
cooperation and eventual membership in the European Union (EU).
1.5           Agricultural Policy. In the context of the country's liberal economic and trade policy,
agricultural strategy has aimed at creating an open competitive agricultural sector based on private
ownership of land, a private agro-processing sector, liberal agricultural trade, fully market-determined
agricultural prices, and minimal budget support for the agricultural and rural sector. Although proceeding
slowly and with difficulty, Estonia has continued to restitute rural land. The privatization of agro-
processing enterprises is nearly complete, and these companies are in the process of adapting to the market
economy. Since 1992, agricultural prices are completely market-determined. There are no import or
export tariffs regulating agricultural trade, and Estonia has entered into trade agreements with the EU and
the EFTA countries, and is moving toward accession in the WTO.
I      Summarized from Estonia: Agriculture and Forestry Sector Review ( Report # 13316-EE, May 16, 1995).



2                                                                                      Chapter 1
1.6           Estonian agricultural policy to date can be described as exceptional within the former
Soviet Union (FSU) because price and market distortions have been almost completely avoided. The
single most important mechanism of Government support to the rural regions has been the establishment
of a fund with budget resources to provide loans for investments in agriculture and rural enterprises.
Commercial banks have used these resources to lend to agriculture and rural entrepreneurs at a capped
(and therefore subsidized) interest rate. Existing interest rate subsidies to the rural economy via this credit
fund2 are fully budget financed. Due to consistent and increasing pressure from the farmers' lobby to
support agriculture, the Government of Estonia (GOE) intends to continue to subsidize agriculture only
through the provision of credit funds from the budget with interest rate subsidies. In September 1995,
the Law on Regulating the Agricultural Market was passed by Parliament to replace the previous
Agricultural Market Law. The new law allows for price support payments to farmers and the imposition
of import tariffs on agricultural goods but does not actually determine tariffs. However, even though the
previous Agricultural Market Law allowed for price support payments to farmers, the GOE has not
regulated agricultural prices or trade in the past, and is committed to continue this open market policy in
the future.
1.7           Estonia is embarking on the next stage of improving rural institutions after having nearly
completed the transition to a market economy with minimal market distortions. Unlike other countries
of the former Soviet Union, the GOE has a well developed agricultural sector policy, and is now in a
position to effectively use public investments to rehabilitate rural infrastructure (including the deteriorating
farm drainage systems), promote the transfer to private ownership, improve agricultural technology
dissemination to the evolving private farms, promote rural entrepreneurship, and strengthen the sector's
public institutions.
B. Agriculture
1.8           Throughout its history, agriculture was the most significant activity of the Estonian
economy. Main export products were processed agricultural goods such as eggs, butter, cheese and flax,
and raw materials such as timber. The Soviet annexation in 1940 had a profound effect on the country's
economy through the elimination of private property, the collectivization of agriculture, and the
incorporation of Estonia into the Union-wide command system. Estonia was assigned the role of a
specialized livestock producer, and supplied dairy products, pork, and beef to neighboring republics, which
in turn, provided most of the grain and other needed inputs. Animal products accounted for more than two
thirds of the total value of agricultural production, and crop production was oriented mainly towards
roughage. The large agricultural trade surplus was based on heavily subsidized supplies of inputs and feed
from the other republics of the FSU.
1.9            Post-independence agriculture in Estonia is dominated by dairy and livestock production.
Even though livestock production has decreased considerably during the transition period, this sector
presents the highest competitive potential for Estonian agriculture. Crop production focuses on feed grains
and fodder crops for the livestock sector. In 1994 the sector accounted for about 9% of GDP, contributed
15% of exports, and employed about 6% of the Estonian labor force. It is estimated that agricultural
production decreased by about 40% from 1991 to 1993, resulting in a similar contraction of the
agricultural labor force. The food processing industry is characterized by over-capacities but, after
restructuring, is expected to contribute significantly to GDP.
2      The mission estimates the implicit annual rural credit subsidy to amount to US $1.0 million to date.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                       3
1.10           Exports. Although agricultural production has declined sharply, the export of agricultural
and food products has not declined to the same extent. Even though Estonia is a net exporter of meat and
dairy products, the trade surplus for these products has been declining, and future agricultural export
opportunities are not open-ended. Russia, the traditional customer, has imposed import tariffs on Estonian
agricultural products, yet agricultural exports to Russia continue to be of major importance, accounting
for 54% of total agricultural exports at the beginning of 1995. Other potential customers, such as the EU,
limit imports on the one hand through tariff barriers, and on the other hand, by their demand for high
quality and health standards for imported agricultural products.
.11          Food Demand. Consumption of meat and dairy products in Estonia has dropped since
independence from previously high levels. The cause is the decrease in real incomes of Estonian
consumers who have substituted relatively cheaper cereals and potatoes for the more expensive livestock
products. The combination of declines in local consumption of livestock products and increases in low
cost or better quality imports of agricultural and food products from neighboring countries, continues to
contribute to the contraction of the agricultural sector.
1.12           Farm Structure3. Before independence agricultural production was organized in 350 large
cooperatives, each managing some 3,500 ha with roughly 300 employees each. Nearly all of the assets
of state and collective farms have been privatized since independence. The farming structure has been
developing towards smaller sized family farms with an average size of 24 ha. Presently, the farm structure
is characterized by three different types of farms:
(a)    about 3,500 "legal enterprises" (joint stock companies, partnerships, and co-operatives)
which emerged from the former sovkhozes and kolkhozes (collective farms) now on about
70% of total agricultural land. The joint stock companies do not own land, the land either
belongs to the members, or is rented from the state. Often these enterprises have only a
transitional character and are dividing into smaller entities as the privatization process
continues and shareholders prefer to take their land and set up their own, private, farms.
Further contraction of these large-scale enterprises is expected over the next 18 to 24
months.
(b)    about 10.000 - 15,000 family farms with an average area of about 24 ha (17% of the total
agricultural lands). It is expected that the number of family farms will increase in the
near future (of these, only about 25% have registered their land titles).
(c)    more than 130,000 small, and non-registered, subsidiary plots, with an average area of 1.7
ha, often used by the shareholders of the large farming structures, to supplement their
wage income.
1.13           It can be expected that joint-stock farms will continue to down-size because members
wishing to start their own farms will withdraw their restituted land from the joint stock companies. The
number of private family farms will increase, and a larger share of rural income will be generated through
off-farm and non-farm activities as growth and employment opportunities in other sectors of the economy
increase. Some private farms will increase in size, whereas for others, land resource endowments will be
3      Information provided by the MOA. Due to the rapid transition of the farming sector, estimates of farm numbers and
land shares are changing rapidly, and do not necessarily correspond to other Government statistics.



4                                                                                Chapter I
inadequate for full-time farming and will need to be supplemented by off-farm income. Farm model
calculations (Annex 3) show that Estonian farms on good soils could compete internationally, especially
in dairy and beef production, if production efficiency was marginally increased (new techniques and
rehabilitated drainage), access to adequate credit was improved, input supplies and qualified extension
advice were secured, and quality and marketing of processed agricultural products was improved.
1.14         Livestock and Crop Production. Dairy production has traditionally been, and remains, the
major activity of the agricultural sector. However, it has also declined considerably since independence.
Beef meat production has declined even faster than dairy production due to its low profitability. Because
of climatic conditions, cereal production has never been of great importance and has continued to
decrease overall in the recent years. While the area planted with wheat and rye has increased slightly,
barley production, which is mainly used as animal feed, has decreased considerably.
1.15         As FSU markets have become less accessible and the supply of subsidized grain for animal
feeding has been withdrawn, herd owners have started to reduce production costs by placing more reliance
on pastures as a feed source. However, pastures have not been improved and managed in order to achieve
high yields and quality, and the milk yield per cow has dropped from an average of around 4,000 kg/year
to around 3,600 kg/year since independence. Only 23% of pastures contain legumes, and part of the
grasslands used for livestock feeding are in effect abandoned croplands containing a mix of volunteer
grasses and weeds. They will eventually reach the stage where they will no longer support livestock
production. Nevertheless low-cost technologies to increase milk and beef production and rehabilitate
pastures are available in Estonia and these are now being adopted successfully by a small number of
farmers.
1.16         Drainage. Historically, drainage has been a very significant element in maintaining the
productivity of both arable lands and those under forest cover. Drainage systems regulate the depth
(below surface) of the groundwater table and moisture of the soils during critical periods, thereby
lengthening the growing season and increasing crop and pasture yields. On areas where natural drainage
is inadequate, artificial drainage systems can extend the growing season for about a month by ensuring
that the groundwater table can be maintained at least 40 cm below surface. Well drained lands can be
planted earlier and harvested later, as waterlogging can be avoided and fields would be dry enough for
farm machinery to operate. Rehabilitation of drainage systems is an important prerequisite to increasing
crop and pasture production.
1.17         Of the 1.12 million ha of total arable land, some 739,000 ha or 66%  are drained
artificially. Routine maintenance of the drainage systems since independence has dropped dramatically
in most systems, due to constraints on the GOE's budget, to the point where permanent damage to the
system (e.g. plugging of tile drains) will be unavoidable in the near future unless proper operation and
maintenance (O&M) measures are revived. Much of the drain systems, particularly the sub-surface
systems covering 643,000 ha of the arable area, are now not functioning at full capacity. Additionally,
the drainage undertaken in the Soviet period was done without proper environmental assessment. Any
future investments in drainage rehabilitation will therefore need to undergo careful environmental
assessment.
1.18         Drainage is primarily the responsibility of the Land Amelioration Unit (LAU) of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). LAU's twelve county-level Amelioration Bureaux (ABs) are presently
responsible for O&M on all the drainage and polder schemes in their localities. A Land Amelioration Law
which regulates the organization of Land and Water Associations (LWAs) was adopted by the Estonian



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                  5
Parliament in April 1994.4 This law focuses on the privatization of drainage systems to individual fanmers
and on the establishment of LWAs. Membership in LWAs is compulsory for all farmers benefitting from
drainage systems. Following a transitional period, the LWAs are expected to take over the operation and
maintenance of their location-schemes from the county-ABs.
1.19          Repair and reconstruction of the drainage system was funded by the GOE with EEK 5.8
million in 1994, and in 1995 for EEK 10.3 million. A full national drainage rehabilitation program would
require massive budgetary resources, but the operational feasibility and economic justification of such a
massive program is questionable. Over 50% of the total areas of drained farmland have been classified
as lands of poor fertility. These areas, whether drainage is well maintained or not, do not have the crop
yield potential that would meet the thresholds for profitable farming under present cropping patterns and
open market economy input/output prices. Therefore, the Project would selectively finance drainage
rehabilitation only on the most fertile soils and would not finance any new drainage of agricultural lands
or forests.
1.20          Asriculture Extension Services. About 700 full and part-time agricultural advisors are
employed in the private sector (e.g. veterinarians, advisors from the processing industries, private
consultants, input suppliers); the public sector (e.g. staff from universities or colleges, research institutes,
county-based staff of the MOA); the media (mostly specialized press); and by the farmers themselves (e.g.
Farmers' Union with about 150 advisors, the Producers' Union, and farmers' circles). The present level
of public funding for extension is low, representing about 0.05% of the agricultural GDP whereas many
countries invest about I to 2% of agricultural GDP in extension. The MOA has decided to provide a large
part of the advisory services to the potentially more profitable farmers on a "for pay" basis, through a
private advisory system, while maintaining a small public advisory service to be available to farmers who
do not have the means to pay for advice. Rural information centers, which have been created in many
rural areas, assist with advice on off-farm job opportunities and rural entrepreneurship.
1.21          The extension service in the former Soviet Union was highly specialized and aimed at
servicing state and collective farms and ensuring the adherence to delivery of centrally planned production
targets. The advisors did not provide any business or market-related advice. The extension service now
requires retraining and re-orientation to provide advice relevant to an open market economy. The
emerging farmers lack business experience, and need advice on production techniques, agricultural
economics and farm management, while the managers of the profitable larger farms need advice on staff
management, marketing, and financial management. Several donor-financed technical assistanceprograms
have already been established in Estonia and are training agricultural advisors. In addition, EU (Phare),
as complementary support to this Project, has recently started a technical assistance program to train
agricultural advisors and to develop private agricultural advisory services.
1.22          Research. Research was highly centralized in the pre-independence period, but is now
being conducted at three levels. Universities undertake academic research, while applied research is the
responsibility of the Academy of Science and of the independent State research institutions and
laboratories. Research at all levels is severely constrained by a shortage of funds, and requires
reorientation to market-responsive production systems based on economic priorities.
4       Other laws reguating the finctions of LWAs include: Land Amelioration Law (1994); Law on Associations (1992);
Business Law (1995); and the Wiaer Law (1994).



6                                                                                  Chapter I
C. Agro-Enterpnses
1.23.        Aero-Processing. Most of the Estonian agro-processing (milk, meat, and grain enterprises)
have been privatized and sold, mainly to cooperatives, some of which have foreign investors. Small scale
activities have been successfully privatized, and several new enterprises have been established. Given the
high level of (nominal) overcapacity, technical deficiencies, and financial problems facing the large-scale
agro-processing enterprises, and the legacy of the export orientation to the FSU, significant
decommissioning of installed but out-of-date capacity, and upgrading of the remaining capacity, is required
to adequately transform these industries into efficient producers of the range and quality of products
acceptable in Estonia's future markets.
1.24         Food Ouality Control.  Present laboratories and their personnel are not equipped and
trained to meet international requirements in food quality control. The GOE plans to adjust quality control
measures and standards to meet EU food import standards, to enhance producers' export potential to the
EU and to other countries, and also to protect the health of domestic consumers. The trade agreement
between Estonia and the EU stipulates that Estonian agricultural exports must meet EU standards and that
the products be free of various contaminants and potentially harmful residues. Therefore, monitoring and
testing capacities need to be established to evaluate and ensure a high quality of food and livestock
products to exploit Estonia's export opportunities.
1.25         SuPDlY services have been improving since 1993 and agricultural input and machinery can
be purchased through dealers from the world market. Private farmers often depend on machinery services
from cooperatives, but their old Soviet machinery is outdated and will have to be replaced soon. New
arrangements, such as farmers' machine cooperatives, could provide the necessary services to small
farmers.
D. Land Reform
1.26         Land Reform. The total area of agricultural land and forest to be privatized is estimated
at 2.3 million hectares (including natural grass land, arable land, orchards, and forests) out of the total
Estonian land area of 4.5 million hectares. The reform of land ownership, (i.e., restoration of personal
property rights and the sale or lease of state lands) is a central element of Estonia's economic reform.
This also implies a reorganization of the collective farms. The Government recognizes that rural land
reform is the key element for rural economic transformation. The actual process of formally transferring
ownership to the newly established private farms has been slower than desirable. The approach chosen
for land reform - restitution based on pre-1940 boundaries - seems to be the most significant factor in
slowing down land privatization, and creating uncertainties as to the right of the cultivators. Many land
owners not involved in agriculture have chosen alternative lands or non-land compensation, in place of
accepting the restitution of their actual "ancestral lands." Consequently, a significant proportion of the
arable and forest land remains under State ownership at the end of the first stage of land restitution.
1.27         Despite the importance attached by the GOE to land reform and privatization, only 13%
of eligible rural lands (300,000 ha) have been devolved to private control (including restituted land, and
land transferred under the Farm Law Act of 1989). As of December 1995, about 220,000 ha (privately
and state-owned land) have been registered in the cadastre, and about 180,000 ha have been registered in
the Title Book. The slow progress of the land reform can be attributed to the difficulties in adjusting the
legal framework to handle high transaction volumes under restitution, insufficient institutional capacity
and lack of coordination between local cadastre centers (under the Land Board), title book offices (under



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                7
the Ministry of Justice), municipalities, notaries, and the GOE's limited financial resources to complete
the land surveys and registration.
1.28         After completing land restitution, market forces will govern the disposal, utilization, and
price of land. The land reform process has, however, created complex questions about the disposal of
state owned arable and productive land, and the establishment and facilitation of private land markets.
An important task for the GOE is to work out a policy for the transfer of ownership of state-owned lands
in the rural areas into private hands. Maintenance and management of parks and protected areas
established after 1940, which include former private agricultural lands, create further problems.
1.29         The GOE has initiated several actions to accelerate land reform and ownership transfers,
including: the devolution of land reform authority to municipalities; plans to simplify land registration
procedures; replacement of the Land Board management; the limiting of the Land Board's functions to
quality control over the municipalities and private surveyors' cadastre activities; and strengthening the
capacity of the land and title book registration offices to handle the large number of land and title
registrations. In 1995, the GOE has transferred state cadastre functions from the state agency Est-Survey
to the Land Board and plans to completely privatize Est-Survey's commercial land survey activities by
mid-1996. County Land Cadastre Offices have been established in nearly all counties. The GOE has also
recently established a Land Reform Commission consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Justice,
Agriculture, and Environment, the Land Board, and members of Parliament, to coordinate land policy,
develop suggestions to speed up the land registration process, and to simplify procedures and regulations.
Legislation approved by the Estonian Parliament in 1995 assigns up to 100% of the land tax to local
governments and gives local governments greater authority over land titling and registration.
Municipalities are now authorized to sell state owned land (without pending restitution claims) and can
retain some of the sales proceeds to accelerate their work. The GOE has allocated about EEK 73 million
(US $6.6 million) in the budget for 1996 to carry out land reform.
E. Rural Finance
1.30         The Estonian commercial banking system is inadequate,5 in relation to the size of the
economy, despite the relatively large number of independent banks. The Estonian banking system has been
privatized6 and, in the process, has gone through major restructuring and consolidation. Yet, there are still
too many banks for the overall economy, and further bank consolidation and restructuring is expected as
the Bank of Estonia continues to tighten its requirements.
1.31         The GOE has established a large number of funds to channel budget resources through
commercial banks to various sectors, including agriculture, rural enterprises, and housing. In 1993, the
GOE established three funds -- the Agriculture and Rural Life Credit Fund (ARLCF), the Small and
Medium Enterprise Fund, and the Export Credit Fund that finance credit to agriculture. The finances of
these funds are derived solely from the GOE's budget and loans from these funds are exclusively
channeled through commercial banks. Up to December 1994, about EEK 200 million had been on-lent
from ARLCF to commercial banks and then to farners and rural enterprises. The Government allocated
5      A more complete discussion can be found in the Financial Institutions Development Project (Report #6376-EE).
6      Even though the State remains a significant shareholder in a number of banks.



8                                                                                 apter I
an additional EEK 91 million to ARLCF in 1995. Seventy-eight percent of the loans have been made for
agricultural activities, the majority directly for agricultural production. Up to 1995, the implicit annual
rural credit subsidy has been estimated by the appraisal mission to be about US $1.0 million.
1.32         The GOE plans to consolidate the large number of funds into one Regional Development
Fund and to allocate an additional EEK 100 million to this Fund in 1996. Although the GOE has not
fully developed the mechanism, it is anticipated that the funds would be on-lent to commercial banks and
then to farmers (about EEK 60 million). In addition, the Fund would finance interest rate subsidies (about
EEK 40 million) to cover the difference between commercial bank's market interest rates charged for
loans to agricultural producers and their interest rates charged to long-term borrowers in other sectors.
This would increase the rural credit subsidy planned for 1996 to US $4 million. The Government is fully
apprised of the impact of this subsidy, both on the budget and the banking system. However, it believes
such costs are acceptable relative to the negative economic impacts of the full protectionist support the
farming community would like to receive.
F. Environment
1.33         There is both a strong political commitment to, and a strong public awareness of,
environmental issues, including support for environment non-governmental organizations (NGOs) activity.
Estonia has inherited a number of serious environmental problems from the FSU, most of which relate
to pollution from heavy industry, ex-military sites, and urban waste disposal. Estonia has demonstrated
its commitment to the environment through its participation in multilateral efforts on the Baltic Sea, its
own and Bank-sponsored environment-related investments to support this amelioration effort,7 and ongoing
discussions with the Bank for additional environment-related investments. A draft overview of
environmental issues in Estonia is being prepared by the Bank. In addition, the Bank is assisting in the
preparation of a "Biodiversity Strategy" financed through the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). Under
the District Heating Rehabilitation Project, the GOE took a significant step in reducing air pollution,
through its examination and adoption of alternative fuels and clean combustion methods.
1.34         Environmental legislation in Estonia exists and is being revised and augmented. The
current transitional status is characterized by a combination of the administrative procedures, legislation,
and standards used when Estonia was part of the Soviet Union, and some new provisions stipulated by
the GOE. Estonia's Basic Law on Nature and Environment Protection was passed in 1990. This has been
augmented by the recent passage of important laws and regulations regarding hazardous waste, solid waste,
environmental impact assessment (EIA), and natural resource pollution taxes.  The Ministry of
Environment (MOE) is responsible for review of EIAs when proposed projects are of national significance,
while County Environment Departments (CEDs) are responsible for the EIA of projects of local
significance. The MOE, with outside assistance, is working to improve the quality of ETA oversight.
Training is also being provided to specialists from line ministries, commercial banks and consulting firms,
in the preparation and use of ELAs in project design and implementation.
1.35         Pre-independence agriculture, primarily because of the concentration of large livestock
numbers in large farm complexes, caused localized (point-source), and in some cases significant, pollution
of soil and water resources. Drainage constructed during this period for expansion of agriculture and
7     For example, the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project (Report #13907-EE, April 25, 1995).



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                9
development of peat resources had a broad range of environmentally adverse impacts. Past over-use of
fertilizers and pesticides has also been reported. These problems can be avoided through the use of proper
environmental review procedures and adoption of mitigation actions. The decline in agricultural
production since independence, combined with the steep relative price increases of chemical inputs, has
reduced the previously high pollution loads. The decline in livestock populations, and their dispersal into
small units, has decreased the point-source pollution, but could result in more dispersed pollution if
livestock operations are not managed with adequate environmental safeguards (e.g. safe storage and limited
application of manure, etc.). Agricultural run-off, particularly to protected coastal areas and nature
reserves could cause environmental damages if mitigation measures are not enforced.
G. Bank Strategy and Experience in Estonia
1.36         Countrv Assistance Strategy. The key objective of the Bank's assistance strategy for
Estonia is to support development of a dynamic private sector, improve the existing public infrastructure,
and alleviate the pockets of poverty that have developed during the transition process, in order to raise
overall living standards. To achieve the objectives, the Bank's program is focused on two main areas:
(a) improving the environment for private sector investment and growth; (b) improving public
infrastructure services.
1.37         For agriculture, the Government has welcomed the Bank's support during the sector's
difficult transition to a market economy, which requires an agricultural sector based on private ownership
of rural land, enterprises, and farms, and competitive open markets, privatization of farm drainage
infrastructure, and effective public sector agencies to support private sector development in the rural areas.
The agricultural sector is of special importance to the Bank's strategy of supporting privatization in the
economy and specifically in the emerging rural private sector. This Project would support accelerating the
land reform, improving food quality control measures and standards to meet EU requirements, improving
rural human resource skills through public and private advisory services, upgrading and increasing
efficiency of farm drainage infrastructure and its privatization and transfer to the systems' beneficiary
groups.
1.38         Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience. Previous Bank involvement in project
implementation has included a 1992 Rehabilitation Loan (US $30.0 million, completely disbursed and now
closed), a Highway Maintenance Loan for US $12 million in 1994, a District Heating Rehabilitation Loan
for US $38.4 million in 1994, a Health Project in 1995 for US $18 million, a Financial Institutions
Development Project in 1995 for US $10 million (all effective and under implementation), and the
recently approved Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project (April 25, 1995). Experience in
implementing these projects has shown that it is important in the initial stages of project implementation
to fully train the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff in project management, financial management,
and competitive procurement procedures. In general, implementation of projects in Estonia has been
satisfactory. Consequently, a joint PIU would be responsible to assist the implementation of the Bank's,
EU (Phare)'s and other donor programs in agriculture and the staff would be trained in management,
procurement, and monitoring & evaluation.



10                                                                               Chapter I
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.39           The Bank has assisted the GOE in the development of its sector strategy through the
preparation of this Project and the preparation and discussions of the Agriculture and Forestry Sector
Review. This review highlights key strategy elements for the development of the sector: efficiency
improvements in primary agricultural production; development of agricultural advisory services;
agricultural marketing improvements; and rapid completion of land reform. The Sector Review notes that
low wages, low land costs, and the existing stock of skills, equipment, and productive infrastructure
provide Estonia with a competitive potential in dairy and beef production. This competitiveness has
already been demonstrated on a limited scale by some transformed farms and food processing industries.
The Sector Review discussions with the GOE stressed the need for an open agricultural economy, land
privatization, and the reorientation and strengthening of public and private agricultural services. In
general, the GOE's agricultural policy reflects these objectives, although progress has been difficult in
some areas during the transition period.
1.40         Rural and Agricultural Strategy. The GOE actively supports the development of the rural
areas in order to narrow the income gap between urban and rural populations. The main objective of the
GOE is to transform and improve living conditions in the rural sector, primarily through accelerating rural
land reform and supporting agricultural and rural entrepreneurship activities. A key issue of this strategy
is the association and anticipated future membership of Estonia in the European Union. Developing an
agricultural policy aligned with the EU would therefore be central to the activities of the MOA in the
future, and the GOE is in the process of developing and refining its agricultural policies to reflect this.
1.41         The MOA has proposed to the Cabinet a set of polices and strategies. These strategies
includes the following key elements:
*   acceleration of the land reform by simplifying procedures for land registration, and by initiating
the sale or lease of land that has not been claimed by former owners and is under state control;
*   improved marketing of agricultural products through improved market transparency and by
adjusting quality control measures and standards to meet EU requirements;
*   improved rural financial services to provide farmers and rural entrepreneurs with long-term credit
funds coupled with advisory services for borrowers and banks;
*   revision of the tax policy to create equal tax conditions for agriculture;
*   development of an efficient agricultural advisory service to promote structural and technological
changes in agricultural production and land use; and
*   development and rehabilitation of rural infrastructure in areas with a low population density.
1.42         Bank Support. The Bank supports the MOA's strategy to ease key bottlenecks in the
agricultural sector, primarily by accelerating the land reform, improving the maintenance of rural
infrastructure (drainage), developing the agricultural advisory services, and improving the food quality
control. The Project would therefore strengthen the private sector, improve the MOA's policy and
regulatory functions, and support a gradual transfer of non-essential Government functions to the private



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                               11
sector. The Project investments support key Government regulatory functions (food quality control,
environmental regulation in agriculture) and the gradual transfer of some government functions to the
private sector (land reform, drainage maintenance, advisory services). The Project assists the MOA in
rehabilitating and privatizing farm drainage infrastructure by handing over the responsibility for future
operation and maintenance to the beneficiaries. Furthermore, the Project supports the development of a
private farner-financed advisory service to complement a basic Government funded, modestly-sized,
agricultural extension service. These are investments of either a public good dimension, or necessary to
support the emerging private sector and reduce recurrent Govermment expenditures.
1.43         The Bank had intended to support the rural sector with investments in rural credit and
forestry. However the GOE, after consultations with the Bank, and for reasons discussed below, has
decided not to use loan funds from this Project for these priority areas.
1.44         The GOE plans to streamline support to agriculture and the rural areas through a Regional
Development Fund providing loan funds (for on-lending through commercial banks) and interest rate
subsidies for regional development, including agriculture. The GOE's policy is to continue to provide this
limited budget support to develop a viable private farming sector and to re-capitalize the emerging farms.
The Regional Development Fund (with interest rate subsidies) is seen by the GOE and the MOA as a
second best alternative, but it allows the Government to continue support for an open market policy in
agriculture. The Ministry of Finance judges that the distortion of the financial sector is small in
comparison to distortions that would be created by agricultural price support payments or an introduction
of significant agricultural import tariffs. Considering the high liquidity in the financial system and the
Government policy to subsidize interest rates, Bank lending for rural finance would not be appropriate at
this time.
1.45         For forestry sector investments, the GOE and the Bank have agreed during Project
preparation that the finalization of a Strategic Plan for Forestry (and related studies) should be a
prerequisite for determining future public expenditures in forestry. Assistance to the GOE for the
preparation of this plan, and the studies, is now being donor financed (see Annex 1).



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1            Estonia has followed a liberal reform  path: these reforms have successfully initiated
economic transformation. Whereas the liberal reform policy has been quite successful in the urban areas,
with wage incomes beginning to rise there, the reforms in rural areas have not shown similar levels of
success. This is mainly due to the slow progress of the land reform and the reorientation of agricultural
exports to western markets. The new Government is strongly committed to supporting development of
the rural areas and to narrowing the income gap between urban and rural populations.
2.2           The intent of the GOE and the Bank was to prepare a program of loan and grant supported
interventions (investments and technical assistance) to address agriculture and forestry productivity, rural
entrepreneurship and finance, rural infrastructure, rural land use management and related environment
issues, and land reform. During the course of project preparation by the GOE and the Bank, a number
of items were removed from the scope of the Project as they were either fully taken over by donor
supported technical assistance (forestry, rural entrepreneurship, rural finance -- Annex 1), or the GOE
decided not to borrow for investments (rural infrastructure other than drainage, and rural finance), but
instead to fund these from budget resources.
2.3           The Project supports the agricultural strategy through selected investments in farm
drainage rehabilitation, land use management, food quality control, and agricultural advisory services,
supported by the GOE's land reform budget. The components of this Project were designed by the MOA
and the MOE with bilateral', EU (Phare)2 and Bank3 assistance commencing October 1993. This report
reflects the outcome of the Bank's consultations with the GOE beginning with Project identification
(February 1994), followed by Project preparation missions (October 1994 and January 1995), appraisal
(June 1995) and included working groups to prepare the Project Implementation Plans (see Annexes -
Volume 2). Policy elements were extensively discussed with the GOE in a public review of the
Agriculture Sector Review in January 1995.
B. Project Objective
2.4           The Project objectives are to increase rural incomes and to stimulate the rural economy
through rural entrepreneurship. To achieve these objectives, the Project focuses on improving factor
productivity and competitiveness of agricultural products by providing assistance for the:
*    privatization of rural lands;
*    privatization and rehabilitation of select rural infrastructure;
*    improvement of human resources skills for entrepreneurship in rural areas;
Including Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the UK under bilateral assistance
programs, and through Consultant Trust Funds.
2      Complementary donor-funded TA is concentrated in forestry, rural private enterprise development, and the
development of sector information systems (Annex 1).
3      Including the Bank-FAO cooperative program.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                              13
*   introduction of new farming technologies consistent with transformed private agriculture; and
*   improvement in food quality.
2.5           The Project's objectives and strategies are consistent with the GOE's rural sector policies.
C. Detailed Project Description4
Land Reform (US $5.5 million)5
2.6           To accelerate the land reform, this component provides financing for the completion of
the National Geodetic Network; land survey works; and of a state rural land disposal study. Under
separate arrangements, donor-funded projects provide technical assistance to strengthen the institutional
and technical capacities of the Estonian National Land Board (ENLB), and land registration agencies.
2.7          National Geodetic Network. The Component would support the completion of a nation-
wide ground control network which coordinates all measured boundaries into one unified system. Over
a period of 3 years, 5,000 points would be measured by private surveying companies using GPS
technology.
2.8           Cadastral Surveying. This component would finance surveying and cadastre registration
of about 150,000 ha of rural lands over 5 years. This is equivalent to about 6,000 farmns of different sizes.
The surveys will be primarily carried out in the drainage rehabilitation areas financed under the Project
to complete the registration of agricultural land in the cadastre. The GOE would recover the costs of the
surveys from private land owners at a later stage. At negotiations, an agreement was reached that by June
30, 1996, the cadastre registration of Est-Survey (a state-owned surveying company) shall be transferred
to the National Land Board (para 5.1 (a)). As a condition of disbursement, the Borrower shall have:
published the tender for privatization of at least five of Est-Survey's regional land survey offices or
terminated Est-Survey's commercial land survey activities; and contracted all publicly-funded land and
property surveys to private surveyors under competitive bidding procedures (para 5.4 (a)).
2.9           State-Owned Rural Lands Disposal Policy. The Government would initiate studies to
analyze possibilities to lease and sell rural land under state ownership, to streamline land transfer
procedures, to clarify the rights and responsibilities of local governments, and to determine incentives for
title book registration. The study would also address the issue of future ownership of former private lands
which were designated and managed as "protected" areas during the Soviet period. By March 31, 1996,
the GOE would initiate studies, acceptable to the Bank; to formulate a national policy for the transfer of
State-owned rural andfarming lands to private ownership, and publish and present to the Bank a plan
for the development of such policy, including a timetable for its technical analysis and adoption, and, by
March 31, 1997, its implementation, taking into consideration the Bank's views (para 5.1 (b)).
Project Implementation Plans (PIPs) have been prepared for each major component, (see Annexes - Volume 2, PlPs).
Component costs, shown in parenthesis, are base costs.



14                                                                                         Chapter II
2.10           Institutional Strengthening. The following ongoing, or future, donor-funded technical
assistance and training6, complements the Project objectives and the land reform:
*    land registry management;
*    land assessment methodologies;
*    land and real estate legal aspects;
*    survey training; and
*    training of cadastre specialists.
Farm Drainage Rehabilitation (US $10.9 million)
2.11           The drainage rehabilitation component would consist of: (a) rehabilitation of drainage
systems; (b) development of Land and Water Associations (LWAs); and (c) development of an adaptive
drainage research program.
2.12           Rehabilitation of drainage systems. The Project plans to rehabilitate about 60,000 ha of
drained agricultural land in about 60 separate locations. This component would rehabilitate main channels
and collector drains, flush and repair subsurface pipe outlets entering collector drains, and selectively till
compacted soils as a complement to site-specific drainage improvement.
2.13           Drainage Site Selection Criteria. Areas for drainage rehabilitation works would be selected
according to site selection criteria7 that include: (a) environmental screening; (b) soil fertility; (c) land use
intensity; (d) condition of the drainage systems; (e) technical feasibility and designs; (f) investment cost
ceiling; (g) status of land tenure;8 (h) farmer's participation, including formation of LWAs; (i) commitment
of LWA members to contribute to rehabilitation costs and take over future operation and maintenance of
the system; and (j) location of markets. Most (95%) of the state-owned agricultural land would be sold
or leased (minimum 10 year lease contracts) prior to commencement of the drainage rehabilitation works9.
Special screening criteria would be used for any proposed activities in the catchment area of the Matsalu
Bay because of the ecological importance of the Matsalu State Nature Reserve. Project financed drainage
investments would be limited to rehabilitation works and investments would not be made for new
drainage schemes and would not include polders'0 or "wet forests." Assurances have been sought at
negotiations from the GOE that investments in rehabilitation would be made only on those sites that fully
meet the above mentioned selection criteria (para 5. 1 (c)). At negotiations, an agreement was reached that
before commencement of the drainage rehabilitation works at any specific drainage site: the Borrower
would (a) register in the cadastre all lands at that specific drainage site to benefit from drainage
6      Not included in Project costs, but provided for in the Project description as background.
7      Selection criteria are elaborated in the Project Implementation Plan of the Drainage Rehabilitation Component (see PIP
#1) and are included in a supplemental letter. Drainage sites covering about 40,000 ha are currently under review
Compare discussion in PIP, para 8g.
Details are specified in a supplemental letter.
10     Where submerged lands are now drained for agricultural purposes.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                           15
rehabilitation; and (b) make available all such state-owned agricultural lands for purchase or lease (para
5. 1 (d)).
2.14            Design and Implementation. Drainage rehabilitation works would be divided into a design
phase and a construction phase. The design phase would be completed in 4 years (3,500 ha in 1995 pilot
sites):" 16,500 ha in 1996; 25,000 ha in 1997; and the remaining 15,000 ha in 1998). The construction
phase would take an estimated two years for each site after completion of the design. The rehabilitation
work design, establishment of the LWA, and physical works would be completed in three years for each
site. Within this time framework, the aggregate plan for the construction phase would be spread over a
period of five years with construction completed by the end of 2000."2
2.15            Develonment of Land and Water Associations. 3 The formation of LWAs is a recent legal
requirement for all beneficiaries of Government drainage investments. LWAs are being formed in all
drainage basins where such investments are planned. The Project would provide training and advisory
assistance to the MOA's drainage staff and to the members of LWAs on the legal, organizational and
financial functions of LWAs. It is expected that about 60 LWAs would be established in the proposed
project area. The GOE has allocated budget funds in 1995 to: (a) train the staff of the ABs; and (b) to
recruit and train local consultants to serve as facilitators in the context of the LWA development and to
assist in drafting agreements between the Government and LWAs on the scope of rehabilitation works and
farmers' contributions.
2.16            The MOA's Land Amelioration Unit (LAU)14 plans to commission three studies, namely:
(a) a series of social assessments of target drainage areas; (b) clarification of the future role of the ABs;
and (c) a mid-term review of the LWA development program. The social assessment of target sites would
begin in early 1996 and continue over a period of two years. A pilot social assessment for the proposed
sites in Vigala and Rannu is currently being carried out and would include specific consultation with
representatives of the Matsalu State Nature Reserve, and representatives for Lake Peipsi. Training and
technical assistance for local staff in social assessments and participation would be funded through bilateral
and World Bank resources (Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development-FIAHS)
in 1995 and in 1996.
2.17            Drainage Research. The existing drainage research program of the Agricultural University
at Tartu (Institute of Water Management) would be reoriented to address: (a) reduction in drainage
operations and maintenance costs; and (b) the envirommental factors in drainage. The GOE would provide
equipment and field instruments to the Institute of Water Management, and funding for the existing staff
11     The Land Amelioration Unit (LAU) of the MOA has identified two pilot sites for detailed selection assessment and
environmental screening in 1995. These sites, Vigala (2,300 ha drained area) in Rapla county and Rannu (1,660 ha drained area)
in Tartu county were designed in 1995 using existing budget sources, followed by physical works in 1996 and 1997.
12     The Project would close in 2001, one year after completion of the drainage rehabilitation works, in order to
accommodate any unexpected delays.
13     Procedures for LWA formation and the internal organization and management of the LWAs are described in the
Project Implementation Plan (see Annexes - Volume 2, PIP #1).
14     The LAU is MOA's central unit responsible for planning and managing all drainage related activities of GOE
coordinating the activities of the 12 regional Amelioration Bureaux (AB).



16                                                                                       Chapter 11
of the Institute to conduct this research. This Project includes related funding to expand the scope of the
studies and to provide training.'" A parallel technical assistance program is currently being sought by the
Institute for possible international collaboration and exchange in this field.
2.18           Cost Recovery. The GOE plans to privatize the ownership, operations and maintenance
of all farm drainage systems by handing over these systems to LWAs after completion of the drainage
rehabilitation works. Responsibilities of LWAs are specified in the Amelioration Law (May 1994) and
membership is compulsory for farmers in the drainage area. The GOE has determined that each LWA
must agree to contribute (in cash or in kind) 20% of the cost of the rehabilitation works (the remaining
80% would be covered by the GOE with budget and Project loan funds). In return, the GOE would, post-
rehabilitation, no longer accept any further financial responsibility for these on-farm drainage systems.
The cost sharing formula is a legal decision of the GOE and based on an estimated average payment
capacity by the beneficiaries. The GOE decided to cover the majority of the one time rehabilitation costs
because thereafter each LWA would take-over full ownership of its area-specific drainage system and bear
the full future O&M and rehabilitation costs.'6 However, the ABs would continue to be responsible for
operations and maintenance of rivers and main canals outside the drainage areas, as the main canals often
serve other users such as industries and municipalities. Cost recovery options for maintenance of rivers
and main canals are being considered, including the possibility of: (a) direct charges to landowners; and
(b) transferring the financial responsibility of this maintenance to the respective municipalities which
would then recover these costs through local taxes. At negotiations, an agreement was reached that the
members of the L WA benefiting from the Project's drainage rehabilitation shall contribute 20% of the
costs of the drainage rehabilitation works either in cash or by providing labor (para 5. 1 (e)).
2.19           Public Investment Program  for Related Rural Infrastructure. The GOE has allocated
significant sums in the Public Investment Program for 1995-1997 for rural infrastructure improvement.'7
The GOE would ensure that the necessary rural infrastructure upgrading, currently planned under the
Public Investment Program, would be provided at the locations of the participating LWAs as a
complement to their improved drainage systems.
Land Use Management (US $0.9 million)
2.20           Wetlands Management Strategy Study. The main objective of the study would be to
develop a national strategy for wetlands and to recommend a classification and identification system to
establish the value of wetlands. The study covers wetlands in forest and agriculture areas: drained lands
no longer cultivated, or to be abandoned to natural regrowth; peat-mined areas for restoration; and the
management of polders no longer under active operation. The study would be managed by the MOE and
Details in Annexes - Volume 2 - PIP #1.
16     The agreements between the LAU and the LWA to fund part of the rehabilitation costs and all future O&M
expenditures are one of the site selection criteria without which rehabilitation works would not commence in that drainage site.
Before the beginning of the actual construction phase at each site, O&M costs are covered by the GOE. During the actual
rehabilitation phase, O&M and rehabilitation are undertaken simultaneously and no additional O&M costs occur. After
completion of the construction work at each site, the LWAs will fully fund O&M expenditures.
17     Including rural water supplies, rural roads, rural electrification, and nual telecommunications.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                   17
coordinated with the "Wetstonia" initiative of the World Wide Fund for Nature/Estonian Fund for Nature
and the actions to be supported under the Bank financed Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project.
2.21          Environmental Monitoring of Drainage Rehabilitation. The MOE is responsible for
monitoring all drainage rehabilitation works and developing appropriate environmental screening criteria
and procedures to ensure environmental standards of the works. The project would support the MOE by
financing laboratory equipment to analyze and monitor water samples from the proposed drainage sites,
and local consultants to conduct environmental screening of the proposed sites. As a condition for
effectiveness, the Borrower would promulgate official regulations regarding the environmental screening
criteria and procedures applicable to all drainage rehabilitation works in the borrower's territory; and
have published these regulations and procedures in the popular media (para 5.3 (a)).
2.22          Environmental Studies for Future Drainage Investments. The Project would support a
sectoral environmental drainage study to analyze future options for drained lands, and the measures needed
to convert drained lands from present use to other uses such as forest land, parks, wildlife protection areas
or wetlands. This study would be managed by the Water Department in the MOE.
Agricultural Advisory Services (US $6.0 million)
2.23          The Agricultural Advisory Services component consists of: (a) the establishment of the
Private Advisory Services Development Fund (PASDF); (b) strengthening the public extension services;
and (c) support to rural information centers. The MOA has created a National Agriculture Extension Task
Force and would appoint staff to formulate the future extension strategy of the MOA, the operation of the
PASDF, and the extension program for the publicly funded extension service. This task force membership
would be expanded to include representation of all stakeholders"8, and would be supported through
ongoing technical assistance financed by EU (Phare). In addition, the MOA, with EU (Phare) assistance,
will train and certify public and private agricultural advisors,"9 especially in economics and farm
management, extension methods, and new technologies.
2.24          The Private Advisory Services Development Fund (PASDF) would be established under
the Project to develop advisory services targeted at the most viable farms (presently about 2,500 family
and 1,200 joint stock farms).20 The PASDF would, on a demand basis, provide the farmers with an
annual grant to partially fund their contract with the agricultural advisors of their choice. Funding is
planned to serve about 2,800 farmers in 1996 expanding to about 5,000 by the end of the Project period,
equivalent to about 100 and 170 full time advisors respectively. The private advisors would be recruited
from the existing the MOA county-level staff and the other advisors already working in the sector. They
would provide advice on farm production, business skills including loan applications, marketing, farm
organization, and other areas. A farmer could apply for PASDF support from the county extension office,
select an advisor and sign a contract which includes terms of reference and payment details. The selected
is     This includes representatives of various farmers' groups, product-specific groups, advisors, research institutes,
universities, commercial suppliers of agricultural inputs, Ministry of Environment, the media, and environmental NGOs.
19     About 700 mostly part-time agricultural advisors are currently working in Estonia.
20     Family farm numbers are expected to expand during the Project period as the joint-stock farms downsize.



18                                                                                                Chapter II
private advisor would visit and advise the farmer regularly. The county extension offices would be
responsible for determining the number of farms eligible for PASDF support,2" informing farmers and
advisors, and supervising payment of the contracts. A farmer would be entitled to receive a PASDF grant
of not more than EEK 2,000 in the first year to contract private advisory services. The farmer would be
required to pay at least 10% of the contract value in the first year (with an increasing share in the
subsequent years -- Table 2.1) and any fees agreed with the advisor above the EEK 2,000 upper limit.
It is estimated the farmers' entitlement would cover a comprehensive business plan and ten to twenty farm
visits. The MOA is receiving assistance from EU (Phare) to establish the operating policies of the
PASDF. At negotiations, agreement was reached that, by May 31, 1996, the Borrower would establish
the PASDF and appoint a manager of the PASDF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.16)).
Table 2.1: Proposed Phase Out of Government Contribution to Private Agricultural Advisor Service Cost
Average Annual
Year      Advisory         Farmer's self-payment         PASDF Grant           Bank's Contribution to
Contract per                                                             PASDF Grant
Farmer
(EEK)            (EEK)          (%)           (EEK)      (%)        (EEK)         (%)
1         2,200              220          10            1,980      90         1,584         80
2         2,200              330           15            1,870     85         1,496          80
3         2,200              440          20             1,760     80         1,408          80
4         2,200              550          25             1,650     75         1,320          80
5         2,200              660          30             1,540     70         1,232          80
6         2,200              880          40             1,320     60                         0
7         2,200             1,210         55              990      45                         0
8         2,200            1,650          75              550      25                         0
9         2,200            2,200          100               0       0                         0
21      Farner eligibility criteria are described in the Annexes - Volurne 2, PIP #2.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                           19
2.25         The publicly funded extension service would be strengthened through donor funded
training and technical assistance to develop educational programs on improved agricultural practices
adapted to the transformed farms. This support is mainly directed at the 150 agricultural extension agents
employed by the Farmers' Union (salaries paid by the GOE) who target their services to the middle
category of farms (about 10,000 family farms and 1,000 joint stock farms). The Project also supports the
development of training materials for the extension programs (both public and private).
2.26         Rural Information Centers would be strengthened with equipment from the Project and
donor-funded technical assistanceto assistthe rural population in finding alternative off-farm employment.
About 5 rural information centers have already been established, financed by the GOE and managed by
the Ministry of Economy. The Rural Information Centers target those farmers (estimated 5,000 family
farms and 1,500 joint stock farms) that may need to supplement their income through non-farming
activities, or even leave farming altogether.
Food Quality Control and Veterinary Laboratory (US $1.7 million).
2.27         The Project would strengthen the National Veterinary Control Laboratory through: (a)
acquiring laboratory equipment for the National Veterinary Control Laboratory to improve monitoring and
testing of contaminants and harmful residues in agricultural food products of animal origin and to improve
the testing capacities for infectious animal diseases; and (b) training staff, technicians, and scientists of
the National Veterinary Control Laboratory in the operations and maintenance of the newly acquired
equipment. Both interventions are necessary for Estonia's agricultural products to meet EU food quality
certification requirements. This component would be complemented by donor-funded projects to provide
technical assistance and training for the development of food legislation, institutional strengthening,
establishment and operations of modem food quality control facilities, both within the agro-processing
industries, and as commercial services to them.
Project Management (US $0.9 million).
2.28         A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established to serve all components of the
Project in planning and management, procurement, accounting, reporting, monitoring and evaluation,
general administration, and overall coordination among the line implementing agencies (Chapter 3).
Project funds would support the hiring of consultants and local contract staff. The PIU would assist both
the Agriculture Project and the EU (Phare) Agricultural Assistance Program in implementing these
projects.



20                                                                                                  Chapter II
D. Project Costs22
2.29             The total cost of the Project is estimated at US $30.9 million, including contingencies, of
which the foreign exchange cost is estimated at US $17.6 million or 58% of the total cost. Total base
costs of the Project amount to US $25.9 million, of which recurrent costs are US $4.9 million (excluding
contingencies). The total Project cost include US $4 million in price23 and US $1 million in physical
contingencies. Physical contingencies have been estimated by adding 5% to the base costs of most
investment expenditure items, with the exception of the PASDF. Physical contingencies are not applied
to this item, because it represents a projected expenditure allocation ceiling. A summary of Project costs
by component is presented in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: Project Cost Summary
(US S million)
% Foreign    % Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Exchange      Costs
Land Reform                                   2.3          3.2          5.5          58             21
Farm Drainage Rehabilitation                  3.6          7.3          10.9         67             42
Land Use Management                           0.2          0.7          0.9          78              4
Agricultural Advisory Services                3.1          2.9          6.0          48             23
Food Quality Control & Veterinary Laboratory  0.3          1.4          1.7          82              7
Project Management                            0.5          0.4          0.9          44              4
Base Cost                                     10.0         15.9         25.9         61            100
Physical Contingencies                     0.3          0.7          1.0          70              4
Price Contingencies                        3.0          1.0          4.0          25             15
Total Project Costs                           13.3         17.6         30.9         57            119
Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding.
E. Financing
2.30             The proposed financing of the Project (including contingencies), is indicated in Table 2.3.
Several expenditure accounts are set up to facilitate the accounting and monitoring of different types of
expenditure items. Although several of these expenditure accounts include the same type of resources
(namely consultants for Studies and Designs, Technical Assistance, Professional Services, and Training),
they are kept under separate accounts to facilitate Project management by the implementing agencies.
22      Detailed project costs by components are presented in Annex 6.
23      Local inflation rates are projected at 30% in 1995; 20% in 1996, 15% in 1997; 12% in 1998; 10% in 1999; and 10%
in year 2000. Foreign inflation rates are projected at 6.90/o in 1995; 2.0% in 1996; 1.6% in 1997; 2.1% in 1998; 2.4% in 1999;
and 2.2% in 2000, based on the Bank's G-5 MIUV index of May 1995.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                                     21
Table 23: Project Financing
(US S million)
Govemment   Donors   World    Farmers         Total     Foreign
Bank                           Exchange
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                         1.6                  4.8         1.6        7.9        6.3
Equipment                           0.9                  1.8                    2.7       2.6
Consultancy Services
Studies                           0.1                   0.7                   0.8        0.2
Designs                           0.2                   1.0                    1.2       0.2
Technical Assistance                          0.5                             0.5        0.4
Professional Services             0.9                                         0.9        0.3
Training                          0.5                   0.4                   0.9        0.3
Agricultural Advisory Services     0.7                  2.6         1.1       4.4         1.7
Technical Services (Land Surveys)   2.7                   4.0                   6.7        3.6
Total Investment Costs                7.6        0.5       15.3       2.7        26.0       15.6
11. Incremental Recurrent Costs
Drinage 0O &M                      1.6                             1.1        2.7        1.9
Office Administration             0.8                                         0.8        0.1
Govemment Counterparts             1.4                                        1.4
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs     3.8                             1.1         4.9        2.0
Total Disbursement                    11.4        0.5      15.3       3.7        30.9       17.6
Note:    Totals may not sum due to rounding.
2.31             The GOE is eligible for single currency loans under the expanded SCL program  for 100%
of its anticipated FY96 lending program of US $15.3 million equivalent. The Borrower informed the
Bank during negotiations that it wishes to borrow in a single currency (DEM) at a variable LIBOR-based
interest rate for the proposed Project. The Estonian delegation justified the choice of a single currency
loan by stating that most of Estonian's loans are LIBOR-based to ensure that the country does not pay
higher than market rates at any point in time. Estonian's currency is pegged to the Deutsche Mark.
2.32             Parallel grant financing has been received from  EU  (Phare) for technical assistance for
the development of the agricultural advisory services. In addition donors2" have expressed their interest
in providing technical assistance to support the Project. The GOE would inform all committed and
prospective donors that the Bank would be consulted on all terms of reference for technical assistance
supporting the Project. At negotiations, an agreement was reached that the Borrower would consult the
Bank on all Terms of Reference for technical assistance services supporting the Project, irrespective of
24     AAmong the countries which have expressed a specific interest in providing technical assistance to support the Project are
the Governments of Austria, Denmark, Germany, France, Finland, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.



22                                                                                Chapter II
the source offinancing; (para 5.1 (g)).
2.33         The GOE would finance all incremental recurrent costs (e.g., operations and maintenance
of equipment, office administration, and maintenance of adequate local staff) within Project-relevant
Government institutions. Once rehabilitated, the drainage systems would be handed over to the LWAs
to be operated and maintained entirely by these associations.
F. Procuremene5
2.34         At negotiations agreement was reached that all procurement would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January,
1995), and Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August, 1981) (para 5.1 (h)) Table 2.4 summarizes the procurement amounts and
methods.
2.35         The GOE recognizes the importance of establishing public procurement regulations as part
of its transition to a competitive market economy. The Bank has been assisting with this since February
1994. Estonia's Law on Public Procurement was approved by the Council of Ministers in May 1995 and
was passed by the Parliament in the fall of 1995. The recently completed procurement strategy paper
recommended a central Procurement Advisory Service (PAS) in the Ministry of Economy, which has been
established with assistance from the Finnish Government. A "General Procurement Notice" containing
information about bidding opportunities has been prepared and it will be published in the "Development
Business" in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
2.36         Procurement Management and Training. Procurement would be the responsibility of the
implementing Ministries, supported by the PIU. The PIU would hire a full-time procurement specialist
with qualifications approved by the Bank, who would be assisted by an international procurement
consultant. In addition, the Ministries would be assisted by the newly established PASDF. Relevant
personnel from the MOA, the MOE, and MOF have participated, and would participate in procurement
training courses organized by the Bank. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the
Bank's procurement procedures would be strengthened through the services to be provided by PASDF,
training, and the use of Standard Bidding Documents. A project launch workshop (training in
procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting requirements) is scheduled prior to project
effectiveness.
2.37          Civil Works (US $7.9 million). All civil works would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). NCB items for civil works are for drainage rehabilitation and maintenance.
The number of contracts is expected to be about 60. NCB is appropriate given that: (a) the average
values of works per site are small (less than US $150,000 and would not exceed $300,000); (b) locations
are scattered geographically (and thus not permitting "packaging" of a number of site contracts) and cover
non-contiguous drainage systems of 100 to 150 hectares in size; (c) implementation requires continuous
participation and contributions from local farmers; (d) ownership of the drainage rehabilitation is linked
with intensive participatory preparation of establishing Land and Water Associations; and (e) small
contracts to local contractors reduce mobilization and organization costs. Domestic bidders would not
25    Major procurement packages and their schedules are presented in the respective Project Implementation Plans (see
Annexes - Volume 2 PIP) and in Annex 7, Consolidated Procurement Plan.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                                                23
receive preferences, and contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. The
Borrower would use bidding documents for NCB contracts developed for the ECA Region.
Table 2.4: Procurement Arrangemenbt
(US S million)
ICB            NCB           Other      N.B.F.        Total
1. Civil Works                                              7.9'                                  7.9
(4.8)                                (4.8)
2. Equipment                                 1.6                         0.2'         0.9         2.7
(1.6)                       (0.2)                    (1.g)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Studies                                                            0.7d        0.1         0.8
(0.7)                   (0.7)
3.2 Designs                                                            1.2                      1.2'
(1.0)                   (1.0)
3.3 Technical Assistance                                                           0.5         0.5
3.4 Professional Services                                                          0.9         0.9
3.5  Training                                                          0.4'        0.5         0.9
(0.4)                   (0.4)
3.6 Agricultural Advisory Services                                     4,4h                    4.4
(2.6)                   (2.6)
4. Technical Services (Land Surveys)                         6.7                                  6.7
(4.0)                                (4.0)
5. Recurrent Costs                                                                    4.9         4.9
1.6           14.6          6.9         7.8        30.9
Total                                       (1.6)           (8.8)        (4.9)                  (15.3)
*) Not Bank Financed
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the World Bank, and totals may not sum due to rounding.
a) National competitive bidding: civil works for drainage rehabilitation estimated to consist of about 60 contracts.
b) Food quality & veterinary laboratory equipment (US S1.09 million); and environmental laboratory equipment (US S0.54 million).
c) Intemational shopping for small specialized laboratory equipment and demonstration materials (US $0.1 million);
national shopping for office equipment and fumiture (US $0.1 million).
d) Environmental studies, and studies for extension.
e) Drainage designs & supervision.
f)  Staff and extemal consultants for PIU.
g) Training in participatory, rapid rural appraisal techniques (extension) and Food Quality.
h) Consulting services procured directly by beneficiaries; small contracts of about US $250 each.
2.38               Equipment (US  $2.7 million).  All Bank-funded contracts, valued at more than US
$300,000, would be procured under International CompetUiive Bidding (ICB). It is estimated at this time



24                                                                              Chapter II
that there would be two ICB packages. The Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
for Goods. International Shopping (aS), based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from two eligible countries, will be used for procurement of small specialized laboratory
equipment and demonstration materials estimated to cost less than US$100,000, with an aggregate limit
of US$150,000. National Shopping (NS), based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three eligible suppliers, will be used for procurement of office equipment and fumiture estimated to cost
less than US$50,000, with an aggregate limit of US$150,000.
2.39         Technical Services (US$ 6.7 million). This would consist of surveying contracts for
individual packages at an estimated cost of US$ 250,000 each, through NCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank, and following a prequalification of prospective contractors. At negotiations, the Borrower agreed
on the principles for standardized bidding documents for technical services. As a Condition for Board
presentation, the bidding documents and the pre-qualification criteriafor the technical services (rural land
surveys) would be submitted to the Bankfor review (para 5.2 (a)).
2.40         Consultant Services are divided into several categories:
(a)  Studies (US $0.8 million). The Project would finance studies on land use management and for
agricultural advisory services.
(b)  Design (US $1.2 million). The Project would introduce standardized contracts for engineering
design and civil works supervision for drainage rehabilitation works. Each Amelioration Bureau
(AB) would select a consulting company, through a competitive process, to provide all engineering
design and civil works supervision for all drainage rehabilitation sites within the responsibility of
the AB. The contracts would be grouped into packages of approximately US $50,000 each and
administered by the 12 ABs.
(c) Agricultural Advisory Services (US $4.4 million). The Bank would partly finance the
employment of consultants (local and possibly some foreign experts) in connection with the
provision of private advisory services for priority programs on agricultural extension. The
beneficiaries of the agricultural advisory services would directly procure their own private advisors
using a standardized contract acceptable to the Bank. Given the large number of private advisors26
and the objective of the Project to develop a competitive private advisory services, a large number
of individual contracts would be submitted for reimbursement. The MOA would self-finance 20%
of payments made by the PASDF for agricultural advisory services. As a condition for
disbursement, the Borrower would present to the Bank a standardized contract format for
agricultural advisors' services, and the selection criteria for agricultural advisors to be eligible
under PASDF, both satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.4(b)).
(d) Training (US $0.4 million). Consultants would be contracted for training related to food quality
control; development of LWAs; and skill development training in extension.
2.41         Procurement Review. All ICB procurement packages above US $300,000, and the first
two civil works and two technical services contracts in each year would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval. For consulting services, prior review is required for all contracts with individuals
exceeding US $50,000; all contracts with consulting firns exceeding US $100,000; and terms of reference
for all consultant services irrespective of the contract value. Other procurement would be subject to the
26    Initially about 100, then rising to 170 over Project lifetime.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                           25
Bank's post review during supervision of the Project, in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
2.42            Procurement Plan and Monitoring. Procurement plans for major procurement packages are
presented in the respective Project Implementation Plans (attached). Procurement data would be collected
and recorded by the PIU and by the PASDF. At negotiations it was agreed that the Borrower would
prepare quarterly progress reports on the procurement of goods and services under the Project (para 5.1
(i)).
G. Disbursements
2.43           The allocation of loan proceeds to various disbursement categories is shown in Table 2.5.
2.44            Disbursements would be made against standard Bank documentation. The PIU would
retain all documentation to support Bank-financed expenditures for review by Bank supervision missions
and verification by external audits. The minimum size of applications for direct payment from the loan
account or issuance of the special commitment should amount to not less than 20% of the deposit to the
Special Account (SA). Applications for withdrawals of loan funds would be fully documented, except
for expenditures under individual contracts not exceeding US $300,000 for goods and equipment,
US $300,000 for civil works, US $50,000 for consultant services from individuals, and US $100,000 for
consultant services by consultant firms, funded from  the Special Account on a quarterly basis.
Expenditures under these contract ceilings would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
certified by the implementing Ministry.
Table 2.5: Disbursement Categories
Disbursement Category                        Allocation    Disbursement Basis
(US $ mil.)
1.0 Civil Works                                     4.5   60% of total cost
2.0 Equipment                                       1.7   100% of foreign expenditures; or
iO0/o of local ex-factory cost; or
80% for other items procured locally
3.0 Consultancies
3.1 Studies                                 0.5   100% of total cost
3.2 Designs                                 0.8   80% of total cost
3.3 Training                                0.2   100% of total cost
3.4 Agricultural Advisory                   2.4   80%*
4.0 Technical Services (Land Surveys)               3.8   60% of total
Unallocated                                         1.4
Total                                              15.3
Of Private Advisory Services Development Funds cost.



26                                                                                Chapter II
2.45          To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account (SA)
in one of the major commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account would be US $1,000,000, representing about 4 months of average
expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stages of the project, the initial
allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US $500,000 (subject to revision at negotiations)
until the aggregate disbursements under the loan shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of US $3,000,000.
2.46          Applications for replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly to the Bank by the
Ministry of Finance, or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank procedure, as described
in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the SA which have been
reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests. At negotiations, the terms and
conditions for the establishment and operation of the Special Account were agreed (para 5.1 6)).
2.47          The Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over five years beginning in the third quarter
of 1996. A disbursement schedule is summarized in Table 2.6.
Table 2.6: Estimated Disbursements
(US S millions)
FY 96        FY 97        FY 98         FY 99        FY 00   FY 01
Annual                   S0.6'         $2.9         $3.2          $3.7        S3.8    $1.1
Cumnulative              $0.6          $3.5         $6.7         S10.4       $14.2    $15.3
Cumulative % Total        4%           23%          44%          68%          93%    100%
Initial Special Account deposit
FY = World Bank fiscal year (July 1- June 30)
H. Environmental Aspects
2.48          The proposed project has been reviewed consistent with the requirements of Estonian
Governmental Regulation No. 314 of November, 1992, concerning "Environmental Impact Assessment"
and the provisions of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment. " A review of
environmental aspects of the proposed project was prepared with the participation of the MOE, which
confirms that all components correspond to Estonian environmental regulations, and this is provided as
Annex 4. The farm drainage rehabilitation component has been placed in screening category "B" and
activities to be supported under this component would be subject to environmental screening and review
consistent with procedures jointly developed by the MOE and the Bank. Annex 4 describes the potential
impacts associated with these components, provides environmental screening procedures for sub-activities,
recommends mitigation measures to minimize these impacts, and reviews proposed monitoring actions.
All other project components have been placed in screening category "C."
2.49          The Wetlands Management Strategy Study has been classified as being of State importance
by the MOE because it addresses key environmental issues in Estonia. The MOE plans to have the
preparation of the Wetlands Management Strategy Study include the preparation of an environmental
impact assessment consistent with Estonian procedures to allow for upstream consideration of
environmental issues in this strategy and to provide an effective means for public participation.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                          27
2.50         Environmental studies for future domestically financed options in drainage investments
would be conducted to ensure that investment project designs are environmentally sensitive and to improve
the sustainability of drainage infrastructure and promote environmental protection. A framework for
environmentally sustainable management of wetlands would be established through the Wetlands
Management Strategy Study. Overall, the Project has been designed to integrate environmental controls
and seek public input on environmental concerns. A number of NGOs (Estonia Fund for Nature,
Stockholm Environment Institute-Tallinn) have been consulted during the project preparation process,
especially regarding the drainage rehabilitation component. Representatives of the Matsalu State Nature
Reserve have been consulted on the design of environmental screening criteria for drainage rehabilitation
in the catchment area of the reserve, given the ecological importance of this area.
I. Poverty Impact
2.51         Since independence, Estonia has moved rapidly towards a market economy. During the
transition period, the living standard for segments of the population have declined as the costs of living
have increased faster than average wages. The transition period has been especially severe on the rural
population and the rural population is among those with the highest probability of becoming poor. Since
the situation in Estonia is changing rapidly, only limited and piecemeal information is available on rural
poverty. Project beneficiaries (the rural population), have a significantly larger proportion of poor people
than the population as a whole. However, the current restructuring of agriculture has had a negative
impact for some segments of the rural population.
2.52         The following differential impacts may be seen:
(a) Rural Unemployment. Employment in the agriculture sector has declined from around 100,000
to about 30,000 from 1991 to 1994 but this decline seems to have lessened. Some of the
redundant farm laborers might have found jobs in the expanding service sector, but many have
to depend on seasonal or part-time employment, and on the products of their household plots until
the rural job market improves. The Project actively pursues the creation of rural jobs and off-farm
employment through it's various components.
(b) Farmers in areas with good agricultural potential would benefit as the project components
specifically support the development of economically viable farms. However, it is expected that
farmers in marginal areas would not benefit from the on-farm investments in drainage
rehabilitation but would have access to the rural advisory services to identify potential alternative
off-farm income sources.
(c) Urban and Rural Consumers would benefit from the project as food products continue to be
produced at or below world market prices, on efficient and unsubsidized farms. Lower food prices
would directly benefit the poorer segments of the population.
2.53         The Project would support policies that deliberately target the viable agricultural sector
and might therefore negatively affect a number of farm workers. However, the support to the rural
economy would increase off-farm employment and rural job opportunities. Furthermore, the benefits of
the reform policy accruing to the majority of the rural and the urban population clearly outweigh the short-
term costs. In the long run, the reform policies of the GOE supported by the Agriculture Project would
create a competitive and productive rural sector that provides jobs and improves incomes for the rural
population, and is not dependent on income transfers from taxpayers or consumers.



28                                                                              Chapter I
J. Gender and Family Issues
2.54         The need for a specific loan component to address gender issues was evaluated during
project preparation and not seen as necessary. Men and women in Estonia have equal rights to land
ownership. Women share responsibility in the rural sector in Estonia, including, for example, management
responsibilities in large farm organizations, and political leadership for rural municipalities. The breakup
of large collective farms is expected to create more family operated farms and businesses. The social
network of many of the former collective farming structures, such as child care and community activities
has been partly taken over by the municipalities. Downsizing of the agricultural sector may result in a lack
of employment opportunities for the younger and the older generation -in the rural areas. The Government
therefore plans to target support (outside of the Project) directly to these groups in the rural areas.



M. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1          Proiect Steering Committee. Overall Project coordination would be handled by a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) consisting of: (a) key members from the Ministries of Agriculture, Environment
and Finance; and (b) associate members from at least the Ministries of Justice, the Farmers' Union, and
the Producers' Union, the Food Board, a representative of the municipalities concerned, and two Joint
Project Directors from the MOA and the MOE. The key members of the PSC would meet on a monthly
basis and, with the associate members, every three months. The PSC would be maintained until
completion of the Project. The GOE has designated two Joint Proiect Directors one each from the MOA
and the MOE at Chancellor or Vice-Chancellor level, to supervise Project implementation. Day-to-day
implementation responsibility would be assigned to the Project Manager and the Project Coordinator from
the MOE. Draft terms of reference for PSC, and its membership, are provided in Annex 5.
3.2          A centralized Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established within the MOA,
headed by a Project Manager and reporting directly to the Joint Project Directors. The major task of the
PIU is to assist the line agencies of the MOA and the MOE in implementing the Agriculture Project and
administering EU (Phare)'s assistance program for agriculture. The PIU would be responsible for: (a)
coordination of, and support to, line implementing agencies; (b) administration, accounting, and financial
management; (c) procurement coordination and supervision; (d) loan disbursement; (e) monitoring and
evaluation; and (f) reporting. The PIU would consist of a Project Manager, EU (Phare) program
coordinator, procurement specialist, advisory services and monitoring & extension specialist, accountant,
two secretaries and drivers. Draft terms of reference for the PIU, its local staff and consultants are
provided in Annex 5. The PIU would assist both the Agriculture Project and EU (Phare)'s agricultural
assistance program in procurement, disbursement, monitoring & evaluation, project administration and
supervision of Project implementation. This joint PIU, which effectively continues and widens the tasks
of the currently operating EU (Phare) PIU, would be established in early 1996 and financed by EU
(Phare). The MOA, EU (Phare) and the Bank are presently negotiating a Memorandum of Understanding
on the funding and supervision of the PIU, to support the Bank's, EU (Phare)'s and other donors'
programs. The joint PIU would operate prior to effectiveness.
3.3          The MOA and the MOE would implement the individual components through the normal
day-to-day functioning of their responsible line agencies under the overall supervision of the Project
Manager and the MOE Project Coordinator and with administrative assistance from the PIU. The
implementing agencies would be responsible for procurement and would receive assistance from the PIU
and the Procurement Advisory Service established in the Ministry of Economy to provide general
assistance in procurement. During Project preparation, the existing EU (Phare) PIU has supported the
preparation activities and will continue to assist the implementing line agencies until the joint Bank - EU
(Phare) PIU is in place. Currently, the implementing line agencies are receiving assistance from the EU
(Phare) PIU, consultants, and from the Bank's resident office in Tallinn, for Project preparation.
3.4          Coordination of all donor-funded technical assistance is under each of these Ministries'
Foreign Relations Department. The Bank would exercise general oversight of the donor-funded technical
assistance complementary to the Project, with prior agreement from the donors and the GOE, and in the
context of the Bank's normal supervision.



30                                                                                 Chapter III
3.5           As conditions for loan effectiveness, the Borrower will have appointed.
(i)    the Chairman and members of the Project Steering Committee;
(ii)   the Project Manager of the PIU; and
(iii)  the staff of the PIU, including the specialized technical stafffor procurement,
accounting, Project management, and monitoring & evaluation with qualifications
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 5.3 (b)).
3.6           As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower will have made adequate allocations for the
Project in the budget for the year 1996 (para. 5.3(c)). The Borrower would include adequate annual
operating costs for the proper functioning of the Project administration in the subsequent budget
allocations for the MOA and the MOE. This would be agreed in a supplemental letter to the loan
agreement.
B. Line Implementing Agencies'
Ministry of Agriculture
3.7           The MOA, through the PIU, would provide Project coordination and administration
functions for its Project components.
3.8           The Land Amelioration Unit (LAU) and its regional offices -- Amelioration Bureaux
(ABs) -- would be responsible for the implementation of the drainage rehabilitation component. The
LAU, located in the MOA, is responsible for the supervision of the ABs. The LAU would also oversee
site selection and design of drainage rehabilitation, coordinate environmental site screening with the MOE,
and provide technical support for regional efforts to establish LWAs. The LAU would coordinate: (a)
consulting services from local institutions, and from donor-sponsored technical assistance,2 for training for
LAU staff in social assessment and participatory techniques for LWA formation; and (b) the drainage
research sub-component with The Institute of Water Management of the Agriculture University of Tartu.
The LAU would also be responsible for coordination with the MOE on issues of environmental impact
assessment of each drainage site.
3.9           The National Agricultural Extension Task Force (NAETF),3 with wide stakeholder
participation, would formulate and periodically monitor and modify the operations of the PASDF and the
future extension strategy for the MOA. The MOA and its county-level extension offices are responsible
for administering the PASDF. As a condition of effectiveness, the MOA would have, to the satisfaction
of the Bank; expanded the participation in the NAETF to fully reflect the wide diversity of stakeholder
interests; the stakeholders 'representatives would have been appointed by their constituent groups; and
the MOA would have provided the NAETF with a secretariat consisting of a manager, staff an operating
budget, and terms of reference (para 5.3(d)).
I     Detailed component implementation agreements are included in each of the component PIPs (see Annexes - Volume 2).
2      Including activities funded from the Bank's Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (FIAHS).
3      The organization for the NAETF and overall management of the advisory services component are described in Volume
2, PIP #2.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                                           31
3.10           The State Veterinary  DeRartment  under the MOA, would be responsible for the
development of the food quality control and the veterinary laboratory sub-component. The laboratory
equipment would be delivered and managed by the National Veterinary Control Laboratories which report
directly to the State Veterinary Department in the MOA.
Ministry of Environment
3.11            The MOE would implement the Project through its relevant line departments. The MOE's
Department of Environment and Water (DEW) would be responsible for operational coordination at the
working level (among the two implementing departments within the MOE,4 and between the MOE and
the MOA) and for ensuring that the environmental requirements of the Project's components are fulfilled.
The Land Board would be responsible for implementation of the land reform component.
3.12            The Department of Environment and Water5 in addition to its coordinating role with the
MOE and the MOA, would be responsible for the environmental screening of the drainage rehabilitation
component. The County Environmental Departments (CEDs) are responsible for environmental screening
of sites proposed for drainage rehabilitation, and would revise agricultural extension materials to include
environmental issues. Environmental issues of national interest, that may arise from the county level
screening of the drainage sites, would be referred by the CEDs to the DEW for appropriate actions. DEW
would manage the Wetlands Management Strategy Study and the Environmental Studies for Future
Drainage Investments.6
3.13            Estonia National Land Board. The ENLB will be responsible for: (a) development of
cadastral registration and cadastral mapping in Estonia; (b) overseeing the decentralization of cadastral
work to the county level; (c) streamlining the surveying and registration process; and (d) ensuring
coordination with the Title Book Offices. The ENLB will be responsible for contracting out all the survey
contracts through competitive bidding procedures, and for supervising the contracts. The ENLB would
appoint staff required for the coordination of the land reform component and would closely liaise with the
Land Reform Commission'. A Contract Administration Unit (CA 11 will be established in ENLB to
organize and supervise the contracting of the land survey works. The CAU will organize this competitive
bidding and perform relevant accounting functions. The project coordinator of the CAU would coordinate
with the local municipalities, the relevant ministries, and other involved authorities. Survey contracts will
be prepared together with the local municipalities. At negotiations an agreement was reached, that, by
June 30, 1996, the Borrower would establish a Contract Administration Unity with a manager and four
staff to manage and supervise the land survey contracts (technical services) (para 5. 1 (k)).
4       Including the supply of Project-financed equipment to the Estonian Environmental Research Laboratory.
MThe Environmental Impact Analysis and Normative Department (EIA Department) would provide support for
environmental screening and impact analysis for Project components, particularly drainage rehabilitation, and would participate
in developing the environmental screening criteria and procedures for all drainage rehabilitation investments.
6       The Nature Conservation Department would also participate in the Wetlands Management Strategy Study, and provide
inputs to support the environmental screening criteria for the drainage investments.
7      The Land Reform Commission is mandated to coordinate land policy for GOE and legislators. The Commission
consists of representatives of the Ministries of Justice, Agriculture, and Environment, the National Land Board, and members of
Parliament. The Commission was established and is working since June 1995.



32                                                                                Chapter III
C. Participation
3.14          The preparation of the Project has involved representatives of the Govermment,
environmental NGO's, local authorities, and outside experts in preparing detailed project implementation
plans for each component. In addition, through technical assistance and the Bank's own staff efforts,' the
participatory approach has been introduced for the design of the drainage rehabilitation works, assessment
of the potential environmental impacts of drainage rehabilitation, and for the formation of the LWAs. The
Project will ensure that the farmers, organized in LWAs, will be involved throughout the process, assisting
in the design, and contributing to the implementation of the rehabilitation works. The Project would
utilize this participatory approach in the development of the national Agricultural Extension Plan. This
involvement of stakeholders (farmers and advisors) in the design of both the drainage and the agricultural
advisory systems could result in new grass roots farmers' organizations (LWAs) developing a range of
additional services to members such as input supply, machinery pools,9 marketing and possibly credit.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.15          The time-based implementation schedules for each of the Project components, and the
major sub-components are included in the individual Project Implementation Plans (PIPs) of Project
components, as well as in the "Implementation Plan Summary" (Annexes -Volume 2).
E. Accounts and Audit
3.16          The Borrower's records and accounts of the Project, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and furnished to the
Bank within four months after the end of each year. (para 5.1J()). The audit reports would contain
separate opinions on: (a) compliance by implementing agencies with relevant covenants of the Loan
Agreement with the Bank; (b) the Statements of Expenditures (SOE); and (c) the Special Account. The
Bank required audits would not cover donor funded activities, even if supervised by the Bank.
F. Reporting and Evaluation
3.17          The implementing line agencies responsible for various aspects of the Project would
prepare quarterly reports covering progress in the physical implementation of the Project, the use of
Project funds and, where appropriate, the Project's impact. The format of these reports would be agreed
with the Bank. The reports would be consolidated by the PSC into semi-annual progress reports to be
submitted through MOF to the Bank, and relevant co-financiers within two months of the end of each six-
month reporting period. These semi-annual progress reports would also include an implementation plan
and work program for the six months following the reporting period. The results of environmental
screening shall be included in the semi-annual progress reports for the drainage investments.
Including use of the Bank's Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (FLAHS).
9      Presently being facilitated with technical assistance to fanners' groups funded by the Danish Consultant Trust Fund.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                               33
3.18          The Borrower would monitor and evaluate (M&E) the Project on an ongoing basis using
performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank,' and would prepare a mid-term review of the Project's
performance by April 1, 1998, which analyzes the results of the M&E. The Borrower would review this
report, and the GOE's plan for future implementation taking into account the conclusions of the M&E
analysis, with the Bank by end-June, 1998 (para. 5.1 (m)). This report would also include proposals for
any necessary revisions to the Project Implementation Plans.
3.19          Upon completion of the Project, the MOF, with the collaboration of the implementing line
agencies, would prepare a Implementation Completion Report (ICR) with a scope satisfactory to the Bank,
to be submitted to the Bank within six months after Project completion.
G. Bank Supervision
3.20          Given that there is, as yet, limited experience with implementing Bank Projects in Estonia,
as well as the fact that the Project covers several aspects of both public and private sector rural
development, there would be a significant role for Bank supervision. The supervision missions would use
the Project Objectives and Development Indicators (Annex 2) for the M&E of the Project. It is
recommended that Bank supervision include":
(a)  a Project-launch mission to establish with the implementing Ministries, the operational, accounting
and reporting procedures for the Special Account;
(b)  semi-annual supervision missions, to review the status of Project implementation and assist with
any issues that might arise. The first supervision mission would take place within six months of
effectiveness;
(c)  an implementation review to be carried out within 12 months after loan effectiveness to determine
any revisions that might be needed in the implementation plan; this implementation review would
be conducted in conjunction with a supervision mission;
(d)  a mid-term  review, not later than end-June 1998, to be carried out in conjunction with a
supervision mission, based on the review of M&E performance indicators as of end-December
1997;
(e)  desk reviews of environmental screening and environmental impact assessments, if prepared,
specific drainage investment Projects for consistency with World Bank Operational Directive 4.01,
"Environmental Assessment;"
(f)  recognition of the importance of effective implementation of "environmental screening procedures"
to the success of the drainage rehabilitation component, field based supervision would be
conducted by Bank environmental staff for proposed pilot activities at Vigala and Rannu to assure
their effectiveness and transferability to future activities; and
10    Annex 2: Project Objectives and Development Indicators.
A detailed supervision plan is attached in Volume 11 of the Annexes.



34                                                                                Chapter mi
(h) a completion review of implementation would be carried out within six months of the receipt of
the ICR from the Ministry of Finance.
3.21          Given the wide range of activities being covered by this Project, most of the above-
mentioned supervision responsibilities may require, at appropriate times, a wider range of technical skills
from supervising staff and consultants than would normally be required. In addition, the Bank would
jointly supervise, with EU (Phare) and the MOA, the technical assistance for the development of the
agricultural extension financed by EU (Phare). Some additional staff time might be required for other
overlapping donor-supported technical assistance to coordinate these activities with the Project. However,
because this technical assistance is not formally being co-financed under this Project, the donors would
be responsible for their own direct supervision of their technical assistance activities.



IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification'
4.1           The major benefits are:
*      accelerated development of a rural land market;
*      increased agricultural production and farm income in the drainage rehabilitation areas;
*      improved farmers' information on new farming technologies and management practices;
*      development of grassroots rural institutions;
*      improved food and livestock quality standards to protect consumers and increase export
potential of food and livestock products to the EU;
*      protection of the environment through environmental controls in agriculture, drainage, and
wetlands management; and
*      revitalization and development of farms, services and enterprises that would create
additional employment opportunities in rural areas.
4.2           Country and Agricultural Strategv. The Project supports the GOE's strategy to transform
the rural sector, through support of private agricultural and rural initiatives, into an economically viable
and competitive market-based system. The Project selectively provides investments to improve existing
key infrastructure in target areas (farm drainage rehabilitation), strengthens the public agricultural
extension service and supports the development of private agricultural advisors, and enhances food quality
control functions. The Project focuses on investments that initiate a gradual transfer of Government
functions to the private sector (advisory services, drainage maintenance), or improve core Government
functions (food quality control, public advisory services, environmental controls in agriculture).
4.3           Scope of the Analysis and Summary Results. The financial and economic analysis is
divided into two sections: (a) The financial and economic farm model analysis of the profitability of crop
and livestock production, which shows an estimated ERR of 16% (the farm model analysis shows that the
Project investments in drainage rehabilitation and private extension, if complemented by privately financed
on-farm investments in farm assets, would increase farm incomes by 40% after two years compared to
a situation without Project); (b) the major economic benefits and the expected impact of the Project
investments on Government expenditures of each component are analyzed, partially using cost-
effectiveness analysis.
I     The Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project is described in detail in Annex 3.



36                                                                                    Chapter IV
B. Financial and Economic Farm Model Analysis
4.4           Dairy farming is the dominant farming system in Estonia, and has the highest potential
to develop into a profitable enterprise. The farm model analysis assesses the impact of the Project
investments in farrn drainage rehabilitation and agricultural advisory services on farm income from dairy
farms. In order to increase farm production and returns to capital and labor on a dairy farm, investments
in drainage rehabilitation and agricultural advisory services have to be accompanied by other investments,
typically in buildings (farm buildings, milking parlor), machinery (milking system), or livestock (milking
cows). The farm model analysis therefore provides a financial and economic rate of return of the Project
investments in drainage and advisory services in conjunction with assumed complementary privately
financed investments in farm machinery, livestock and buildings. The investments would be self-financed
or financed through commercial bank loans.
4.5           The impact of a combined investment in drainage rehabilitation, advisory services for
promotion of improved pasture and livestock management supported through the Project, and the privately
financed on-farm investments in farm buildings, livestock and machinery are evaluated using a model of
a 25-ha private dairy farm. In the model calculation, the bulk of the investment costs (estimated at about
EEK 90,000) can be attributed to buildings, machinery, and livestock (88% of the combined investment
costs),2 whereas the corresponding costs to the farmer for drainage rehabilitation and advisory services are
considerably lower (9% and 3% respectively of the combined investment costs).3
4.6           The Financial Rate of Return (FRR) of drainage rehabilitation, agricultural advisory
services and the complementary privately financed investments in farm assets is estimated at 22% for the
model farm. This FRR is based on the farmers' contribution to the investment requirements, the
incremental benefits of these investments, and the projected incremental costs of agricultural production.
4.7            Farm Income and Farmers' Debt Servicing Capacitv. Assuming a fanner would take a
loan (EEK 90,000; 10 year maturity; 2 year grace period; 4% real interest rate) to improve a 25 ha dairy
farrn, a farmer could service the loan and after two years achieve an annual income that would be 40%
higher than without the investment. Nine years after the initial investment, the model farm would provide
a monthly income of EEK 1,130 per person4, which is comparable to the national average wage and nearly
twice as high as the average farm wage. Model calculations for larger farms (50 ha and 100 ha) show
that the profitability further increases with economies of scale.
4.8           Farm Model Economic Analysis. The economic analysis of the farm models uses import
parity prices for cereals and fertilizers.4 All other input and output prices have been converted using a
standard conversion factor of 1.0, equating financial and economic prices.5 The economic costs for
2      Farm credits are available from commercial banks refinanced through ARLCF. The GOE has allocated EEK 100
million in 1996 to ARLCF for on-lending to farmers,
3      Farmers would contribute 20% of the rehabilitation investments and around 10% of the costs of the advisory services,
with the GOE covering the balances on a grant basis.
4      Using constant end 1994 prices.
5      Because of Estonia's open economy and the absence of tariff barriers.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                               37
investments in drainage rehabilitation and advisory services reflect the full costs of these investments to
the economy, i.e. they include both the farmer's and the GOE's portion of these investments.
4.9           The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the farm model is estimated at 16% and the Net
Present Value (NPV) is EEK 31,000 for a 25 ha farm model. The ERR is lower than the FRR in the
financial analysis reflecting the full investment costs for drainage rehabilitation and agricultural advisory
services to the economy.
Sensitivity Analysis for the Farm Model
4.10          Overall, the ERR of the farm models is not sensitive to significant changes in costs and
benefits: benefits would need to fall by 24% or costs increase by 31% for the ERR to fall to 10% (i.e.
with a net present value of zero). If the benefits are delayed by two years, the ERR would drop to 11%.
In addition, a risk analysis6 for key assumptions, including: (a) inadequate rehabilitation and maintenance
of the drainage systems beyond the project period; and (b) change of key agricultural output prices, has
been prepared. The risk analysis shows that the ERR is sensitive to shortfalls in projected crop yield that
might occur if drainage systems are not maintained. To ensure the projected yields are achieved in the
Project area, the Project therefore carefully targets the investments to the high potential agricultural areas
where farmers arguably have the highest incentives to maintain the infrastructure. Farmers' participation
during rehabilitation and subsequent privatization of the drainage infrastructure would also promote a sense
of ownership and responsibility for maintaining the drainage system. The crop and milk yield assumptions
of the "with Project scenario" have been conservatively estimated and are not more than 10% higher than
current average actual yields in Estonia. The risk of cost overruns is reduced by limiting rehabilitation
expenditures to EEK 1,500 per hectare. It is also unlikely that crop or livestock prices would fall by more
than 20%, due to the currently depressed output prices caused by the inefficient processing sector.
C. Analysis of Benefits by Component
4.11          This section provides an analysis of the economic benefits of the expected development
impact of each component. However, as illustrated in the farm model analysis, many of the benefits of
the components are interrelated and can not be analyzed, or achieved, in isolation.
Land Reform
4.12          Benefits.  The Project would support the development of a rural land market by
accelerating the registration of rural land in the cadastre and title book. These measures would (a)
facilitate the access of farmers to long-term credit because commercial banks would be more inclined to
accept land with a secure, transferable and mortgageable title as collateral, and (b) increase the movement
of agricultural land through sale or lease to efficient agricultural producers, thereby increasing agricultural
production and incomes.
4.13          Cost Effectiveness Analysis.  Land with a registered, secure, transfereable and
mortgageable title could be used as collateral to obtain a long-term mortgage loan from a commercial
bank. The benefit of land title registration could be assessed as the difference between the interest rate
6      See Annex 3.



38                                                                                    Chapter IV
for a long-term mortgage loan which is typically lower than the interest rate of a loan of the same maturity
using a moveable collateral (currently about 20 - 25%). A simple cost-effectiveness analysis shows that
a reduction of the interest rate for a loan of EEK 100,000 (10 years maturity, no grace period, constant
principal repayment) by 2% would be sufficient to cover the estimated costs of EEK 9,625 for land
surveys and cadastre registration of an average 25 ha farm. The component would have substantial
financial and economic benefits for the economy by supporting the development of mortgage banking.
4.14          Cost Recovery. The GOE plans to recover the costs for the land surveys from the
property owners. For this purpose, the GOE is developing incentives to assist the owners in financing
land surveys and registration in the cadastre and title book. The land surveys would be conducted by
around 200 private surveying companies operating in Estonia.
Farm Drainage Rehabilitation
4.15          The Project would finance rehabilitation of drainage systems on about 60,000 ha of the
most productive drained farmland, covering less than 10% of the total drained farmland in the country.
Well maintained and functioning drainage systems are a pre-requisite to increasing the efficiency of
Estonian livestock farms. After fully rehabilitating the drainage system in the Project area, crop
production would increase by about 11,000 tons of feed grain, 35,000 tons of hay, and 12,000 tons of
potato annually. The incremental production of feed grain and hay, even though these crops could be
valued with market prices, is only used as an intermediate good for dairy and livestock production and
should not be valued separately'. The farm model analysis therefore provides the best approximation of
the benefits of drainage rehabilitation. In addition, the organization of farmers in LWAs and the
involvement of the farmers in the design of the drainage system could also result in new community
services provided by these LWAs such as input supplies, machinery pools, marketing and possibly credit.
Tlhe drainage rehabilitation investments would directly benefit small local contractors carrying out the civil
works and also stimulate the development of other rural support services to agriculture in the rural areas.
4.16          Cost Recoverv. The GOE plans to privatize the ownership, operations, and maintenance
of all farm drainage systems by handing over these systems to LWAs after completion of the drainage
rehabilitation works. Each LWA must agree to contribute (in cash or in kind) 20% of the cost of the
rehabilitation works, the remaining 80% would be covered by the GOE with budget and Project loan
funds. In return, the GOE would, post-rehabilitation, no longer accept any further financial responsibility
for these on-farm drainage systems. Each LWA would have full ownership of its area-specific drainage
system and bear its full O&M costs. This will reduce the GOE's future investment costs in rehabilitating
drainage systems and its recurrent expenditures for operation and maintenance of these systems.
Agricultural Advisory Services
4.17          Benefits.  Extension plays a key role in the dissemination of information on new
technologies, and improved organizational and management practices. Research results confirm the
significant and positive impact of extension in many countries. Extension would likely have a substantial
7      A separate economic rate of return has been calculated for the farm drainage rehabilitation component and is estimated
at 23% and the NPV at EEK 26 million. Estimated benefits include the incremental production of feed grains, hay and potato
valued at local market prices. Costs include all rehabilitation investments,O&M costs and costs for establishment of LWAs over
15 years.



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                             39
impact on the transformation of the Estonian farming sector to a market oriented production system.
However, the benefits of extension during the transition period are extremely difficult to quantify due to
the paucity of data and the lack of experience in similar situations. Evidence from an extension project
in northern Estonia shows that minor improvements such as adequate maintenance of the milking
equipment results in significant quality improvements. Quality improvements would substantially increase
farm income because of the large difference in payment for low quality and high quality milk.
4.18         Public versus Private Advisory Services. The Project assists the establishment of a new
advisory system in Estonia consisting of a public and a private extension service. The Private Advisory
Services Development Fund requires only an initial investment, because the farmers are expected (in the
medium-term) to fully pay for advice that directly benefits their farm operation. Over an eight year period
the GOE's contribution to the private advisory service would be gradually phased out. In addition, the
GOE, with Project support, would continue to provide advice to farmers who can not afford the private
advisory services, but only with public domain technical information. The GOE would therefore reduce
its active involvement in extension to a more strategic and supervisory role, thereby containing recurrent
Government expenditures for extension.
Food Quality Control and Veterinary Services
4.19         Benefits. The Project would improve state food quality and veterinary laboratories in
order to protect domestic and foreign consumers, and increase the export potential of agricultural products.
The Project investments are aimed at enhancing and monitoring the quality of food and livestock products
in accordance with EU regulations.
4.20         Cost Effectiveness Analysis. Estonia does not fully use the quota for livestock exports
to the EU at the favorable import tariff, which is 60% less than actual tariffs. If Estonian livestock
products meet EU standards, the fulfillment of the quota would result in a tariff reduction of US $5 - 6
million over the next three years. The component investments (US $1.2 million) could therefore initiate
production quality improvements at the farm level and in the food processing industries. However, private
sector investments in production facilities at the farm level and at the agro-processing level would have
to complement the Project investments to increase the quality of food and livestock products.
4.21         Public versus Private Investment and Cost Recoverv. The Project supports the initial
phase of a broader program to improve Estonia's food quality at the production, processing and marketing
level. Part of the future control functions would most likely be undertaken by private laboratories, but
some of these functions would remain in Government hands. It is expected that the Veterinary Laboratory
would charge for the tests to partially recover costs.
Land Use Management
4.22         Benefits. This component is aimed at strengthening environmental controls in agriculture
to minimize negative external effects of agricultural production on the environment. The MOE would
actively participate in developing environmentally sustainable agriculture in Estonia. In addition, the MOE
would receive Project support to develop and enforce environmental regulations and monitor the impact
of the drainage rehabilitation investments on the environment.



40                                                                                Chapter IV
D. Risks
4.23          The main Project Management risks and the actions taken to mitigate them are:
Drainage Rehabilitation:
Risk:         The commitment and ability of the farmers to pay their share for rehabilitation and to
undertake the fullfunding offuture operations and the maintenance of their rehabilitated
drainage systems.
Mitigation:    LWA formnation is the key mitigating factor; both the MOA staff and group facilitators
have been trained in the participatory approach to group formation;8 LWA formation will
have at its core the development of the group's mutual interest in the continuing operation
of the drainage system; experience from other countries shows that mutual-interest
LWA's do work, and that group social pressure does contribute to coherence and the
fulfillment of obligations; no investment in rehabilitation at any site would be undertaken
if the LWA has not been formed and is not committed to contributing its share of the
rehabilitation costs and to undertaking all future maintenance.
Risk:         Iffarmers are unwilling to pay their share of rehabilitation costs, field investments would
be delayed, and possibly a portion of the loan commitment would not be utilized.
Mitigation:    Formation of LWAs to receive the loan-funded rehabilitation has been ongoing for about
a year prior to project effectiveness; target farmners (i.e. only those with good soils) are
aware that without rehabilitation they would not achieve the required productivity to be
profitable; the costs of contribution by the farmers is affordable from the post-investment
incremental benefits, as investment cost is limited to EEK 1,500/ha, of which the farmer
would pay 20%, much of which would be in kind, with the balance from cash or a
credit.
Agricultural Advisory Services:
Risk:         Farmers are not willing to pay for private advisory services.
Mitigation:    Farmers would be initiated into the "for-pay" system through the GOE grant partial
payment for agricultural advisory services, resulting in both familiarization with this
system and permitting changes in design depending on the farmer responses; farmers and
advisors would be represented on the National Agricultural Extension Task Force and the
design of the private service would be responsive to client needs; private agricultural
advisory services would be targeted only at those farmers with higher income potentials;
those farmers not willing to pay, or unable to pay, for private extension advice would
continue to be served by the public extension service, but at a lower frequency of
contacts, and only with public domain technical information (i.e. no business advice).
8      Including use of the Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (FIAHS).



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                               41
Rural Land Reform:
Risk:         Implementation of land reform will continue to be slow.
Mitigation:    The GOE has, in addition to the funds provided under this loan, allocated a substantial
amount of funds for land reform and land survey works for 1996; the policy study on
disposal of State-owned rural lands should set the GOE's future action plans; strong
political willingness of the present government to move land reforms as fast as possible;
strong desire by all sectors of the population to gain land titles; donor assistance with
strengthening institutional capacities and developing associated legal reforms.
Proiect ImRlementation Delays:
Risk:         A longer implementation period than planned would be required, due to limited local
implementation capacity and extensive farmers 'participation.
Mitigation:    Pre-launch training in participation techniques;9 donor assisted technical assistance for the
advisory service already in the field; the longer term benefits of assuring stakeholder
participation and ownership justifies the risk of a slower implementation schedule: the
project implementation schedule has taken into account a realistic time period for the
effective development of stakeholder participation and ownership.
Com2lementarv Private Sector Investments:
Risk:         The private sector would not complement the Project investments with privately financed
investments.
Mitigation:   Training and advisory services promoting investment opportunities and explaining
financial possibilities supported through technical assistance under the Project would assist
the private sector with investments: registration of secure, transfereable and mortgageable
land titles would facilitate the use of land as collateral to obtain long-term loans from the
private sector. The economic analysis shows satisfactory benefits of the proposed
investments even in the (unlikely) absence of complementary investments.
9      See foonote 7.



V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.1          At negotiations, agreements with the Borrower were reached, that:
(a)  by June 30, 1996, the cadastre registration of Est-Survey (a state-owned surveying company)
shall be transferred to the National Land Board (Para. 2.8);
(b)  by March 31, 1996, the Borrower shall initiate studies to the formulate a national policy for
the transfer of ownership of state-owned rural and farning lands to private individuals and
companies, and shall present to the Bank a plan for the development of such policy, including
a timetable for its technical analysis and adoption, and, by March 31, 1997, implement the
same taking into consideration the Bank's views on the matter. (Para. 2.9);
(c)  investments in rehabilitation would be made only on those sites that fully meet with the site
selection criteria. (Para. 2.13);
(d)  before commencement of the drainage rehabilitation works on any drainage site, the Borrower
shall: (i) register in the cadastre all lands to benefit from drainage rehabilitation under the
Project and (ii) make available all such state-owned agricultural lands for purchase or lease.
(Pam. 2.13);
(e)  the members of the LWA benefiting from the drainage rehabilitation shall contribute 20% of
the costs of the drainage rehabilitation works either in cash or by providing labor. (Para.
2.18);
(f)  by May 31, 1996, the Borrower would establish the PASDF and appoint a manager of the
PASDF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Para. 2.24);
(g)  the Borrower would consult the Bank on Terms of Reference for technical assistance services
supporting the Project, irrespective of the source of financing. (Para. 2.32);
(h)  all procurement would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995), and Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August,
1981).(Para. 2.34);
(i)  the Borrower would prepare quarterly progress reports on the procurement of goods and
services under the Project. (Para 2.42);
(I)  agreement to the terns and conditions for the establishment and operation of the Special
Account. (Para 2.46);
(k)  by June 30, 1996, the Borrower would establish a Contract Administration Unit in the Land
Board with a manager and four staff to manage and supervise the land survey contracts
(technical services) (Para 3.13);



Estonia Agriculture Project                                                               43
(I)  the Borrower's records and accounts of the Project, including the Special Account, for each
fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and furnished to
the Bank within four months after the end of each year. (Para. 3.16); and
(m)  the Project would be monitored and evaluated on an ongoing basis using performance
indicators satisfactory to the Bank,' and that Borrower would prepare a mid-term review of
the Project's performance by end-December, 1997, which analyzes the results of the M&E,
and would review this report and the plan for future implementation taking into account the
conclusions of the M&E analysis, with the Bank, by end-June, 1998. (Para 3.18).
B. Condition of Board Presentation
5.2    The Condition for Board presentation would include that:
(a)  the bidding documents and the pre-qualification criteria for the technical services (rural land
surveys) shall be submitted to the Bank for review (Para 2.39).
C. Conditions of Effectiveness
5.3    Conditions of effectiveness would include that the Borrower:
(a)   has promulgated as official regulations the environmental screening criteria and procedures
applicable to all drainage rehabilitation works in the borrower's territory and has published these
regulations and procedures. (Para. 2.21);
(b)  has appointed: (i) the Chainnan and members of the Project Steering Committee; (ii) the Project
manager of the PIU; and (iii) the staff of the PIU; including the specialized technical staff for
procurement, accounting, Project management, monitoring and evaluation. (Para. 3.5);
(c)   has made adequate allocations for the Project in the budget for the year 1996. (Para. 3.6); and
(d)  has, to the satisfaction of the Bank, expanded the participation in the NAETF to fully reflect the
wide diversity of stakeholder interests; the stakeholders' representatives would have been
appointed by their constituent groups; and MOA would have provided the NAETF with a
secretariat consisting of a manager, staff, an operating budget, and terms of reference. (Para. 3.9).
D. Conditions of Disbursement
5.4           Conditions of disbursement would include that the Borrower:
(a)  shall have published the tender for privatization of at least five of Est-Survey's regional land
survey offices or terminated Est-Survey's commercial land survey activities and contracted all
See Annex 2: Project Objectives and Development Indicators.



44                                                                              Chapter V
publicly-funded land and property surveys to private surveyors under competitive bidding
procedures (Pars. 2.8).
(b)  has presented to the Bank a standardized contract format for the agricultural advisory services, and
the selection criteria for agricultural advisors to be eligible under PASDF, both satisfactory to the
Bank. (Para. 2.40(c))
D. Recommendation
5.5          With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a
Bank Loan of DEM 22 million (US $15.3 million) payable in seventeen years, with five years grace, at
the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for a Deutsche Mark single currency loan. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Estonia.



ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ANNEXES - VOLUME I
ANNEXES 1 - 7
January 18, 1996
Annex 1.   Complementary Donor-funded Techdical Asistance
Annex 2.   Project Objectives and Development Indicators
Annex 3.   Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 4.   Environmental Review
Annex S.   TOR for Project Mangement
Annex 6.   Detailed Project Cost Tables
Annex 7.   Summary of Major Procurement Pakages






ANNEX 1
ESTONIA                              ANgE I1
AGRICULTURE PROJECT                         Page 1 of 5
Complementary Donor-funded Technical Assistance
1.    This annex presents the Technical Assistance Program identified jointly by GOE and the
Bank, within the framework of the strategy of agriculture, forestry and the rural economy, and
considered to be complementary to the investments funded under the project.
2.    For some of the items, donor-funds have been committed (time is noted where
appropriate). For the remainder GOE, is seeking interested donors.
Land Reform
3.    Land Registry Management Advice (1996-98) provides assistance to the local land registry
and title book offices. This program will be carried out by SwedSurvey and financed by BITS
as part of a larger program which has been agreed in principle to start in 1996 and continue up
to 1998.
4.    Land Assessment Methodology Development (95-96) A land assessment methodology has
been developed in close cooperation with Finnish experts as part of an ongoing project.
5.    Land and Real Estate Legal Advice (96-98) provides advice to private real estate agents
in all legal aspects of land markets. This program has been intensively reviewed and two
possible donors - Sweden (BITS financing) and Austria have been identified.
6.    Training of Surveyors (95-97) provides training for trainers in surveying, and will later
offer courses on the use of equipment and software purchased under the first phase of the EU
Phare-funded LIMPE-project. This aspect is included in the ongoing LIMPE-project and in
fiurther TA programs that are currently being developed.
7.    Training of Cadastral Specialists (96-97) provides training for the local cadastral
specialists in using a modem cadastral system. This program would be primarily included in a
EU-PHARE-program, and some part of the program would be covered by BITS and SwedSurvey.
Forest Institutions Strengthening
8.    Forest Strategy Study'. This study will review and recommend structural changes to the
forest sector as well as operational strategies and investment plans, with the overall objective to
achieve a proper balance between environmental, social and economic aspects of the sector. It
would include an assessment of appropriate user fees for public and private harvesting of wood
Finnish Governnent funded



ANNEX-1
Page 2 of 5
resources to ensure that reflect the current value of the resources and that fees for public owned
resources are adequate to cover their management and site rehabilitation costs.
9.          National Forest Inventorv. In principle all forest land in Estonia is covered by
forest management plans which are renewed on a ten-year rotation. The information from these
plans will be used as a base for simulations analyzing future available volumes from the Estonian
forests. The National Forest Inventory will consist of a systematic pattern of sample plots
covering the whole country, regardless of land use, which will be carefully measured in order to
form a statistically controllable database to be used for estimating total standing stock, age and
species distributions, areas of forest types, vegetation cover, etc. These results will be used to
calibrate the forecasts based on the forest management plans and to verify regularly that the
national forest resource and related biodiversity is managed on a sustainable level.
10.         Assistance to the Forestry Department. Technical assistance in the transformation
to market economy, and in the implementation of market economic mechanisms which have been
tested and developed as part of the Suure-Jaani project2 and defined as concrete strategies by the
Forest Strategy Study.
11.         Suure-Jaani Proiect. This Danish funded forest management project which has
now been operational for a little more than a year has been successful in introducing new
management principles and planning and control systems for a state forest region. It is important
to maintain the momentum of these achievements and continue the process so that it can be used
as a demonstration site of best practices for the Forest Strategy Study's consideration, and also
a test and demonstration area for proposals that emerge from the Forest Strategy Study.
12.         Implementation of Forest Stratey is the implementation phase of the Forest
Strategy Study, focusing on the management of the State Forests. This assistance would include
expatriate advisors to guide the forest administration in implementing recommended management
strategies. This assistance should also include support for the new forest regulatory institution,
which will be defined by the Forest Strategy Study.
13.         Training. The experiences gained in Suure-Jaani should now be used for a large
scale training program for the Forest Department. All levels of staff should be trained in
practical applications for economic and financial decisions, software systems, planning, budgeting
and control of forest operations, accounting, business administration, marketing and environmental
management. The training should be organized in a form that expatriate specialists train local
instructors, who gradually take over the whole program and turn it into a continuous education
and training unit. This training unit could also assist forest owners associations to set up special
courses for private owners on selected subjects.
2 Danish Govemnment funded.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
14.         Forest Research. Technical assistance to support a forest research program and
which would lead to the Forest Strategy Study.
15.         EU-Phare Support to Forestry. A certain amount of the EU-Phare program has
been earmarked for forestry support. At this stage this component has not been further defined,
but in principle these funds will be used for improving the information systems within the Forest
Department and as a complement to the other funding.
Rural Private Enterprise Development
16.         With the prirmary objective of fostering rural entrepreneurship, the project
preparation effort has identified a wide range of activities (for donor-financed technical
assistance) that would directly promote the establishment of rural enterprises.
17.         Farmer's co-operatives twinning. To achieve economies of scale in production and
marketing, small producers, which face processing enterprises as markets for their products, need
to work together in an organized manner, often as members of cooperatives. This will help
consolidate their bargaining power with cooperative management and with processors. Twinning
with similar functioning cooperatives in Western Europe and Scandinavia, for training of farmer
organization and cooperative members, (i.e. not cooperative managers and employees) would be
an effective means of both increasing empowerment, and of making the cooperatives more
responsive, competitive and efficient.
18.         Trade Promotion and Market Information Services. This component aims to
promote agricultural and food products on domestic and international markets. It will also
improve the transparency and accessibility of those markets through the establishment of market
information services. Trade promotion will focus on enhancing the preferences of domestic and
foreign consumers for Estonian agricultural products as a whole rather than for specific brands.
Support will be provided through technical assistance and training to an appropriate institution
(possibly the recently founded Association of Estonian Food Industry) to establish a market
development unit to offer a variety of services like market and price information for commercial
producers and intermediaries, and also more broadly-based, policy-oriented information
monitoring and analysis services.
19.         Business skills training for rural farm and non-farm enterprises. Training would
be in commercial, management and business skills necessary for the transition to the market
economy. The program would target the following five beneficiaries: (a) top- and middle-
managers of newly privatized agro-processing enterprises and joint-stock large farms (ex-
kolkhozes and sovkhozes) ;md managers of rural drainage construction companies; (b)
commercial, marketing, line-mnanagement and accounting staffs of these enterprises; (c) owners
of (new) private farms; (d) existing small- and medium-scale rural entrepreneurs; and (e)
farmers' organizations such as the Land and Water Associations, rural residents in transition from



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
farming into rural service and rural enterprises. This training component would utilize the staff
at Estonian educational and training institutions operating in the rural areas: universities, technical
institutions, vocational training schools, farmers' support organizations.
20.          Farm machinery services-private sector development. Tailored to the services
provided by Germany in its transformation of agriculture in the new "Laender", this training
component targets Estonian farm co-operative recipients of donated Danish farm machinery. The
training emphasizes how to utilize this machinery to provide services on a fee basis to other
farmers, and how to avoid building overcapacity for individuals.
21.          Agro-processing engineering consultancy joint ventures. Both the major agro-
processors and the smaller scale farm-level processors require professional technical engineering
advisory services for the design and upgrading of existing plant, and the introduction of new
product lines. This is particularly important for two objectives:
(a) effective cost reductions in processing through efficiency improvement in installed
capacity; and
(b) upgrading to meet EU import food standards regulations.
22.          Estonia design engineers who wish to enter this new private sector field, that is,
a for-a-fee engineering consulting business environment, could be teamed with experienced
engineering consulting firms to form local joint-ventures. Such ventures would initially provide
services based largely on technical expertise and experience of foreign companies. Over time the
foreign expertise would be replaced with local expertise, and the role of the joint venture
partnership would be to provide technical back-stopping as a conduit for new technologies and
design innovations based on other countries' experiences.
23.          Because the Estonian industry cannot afford the fees of external design consultants,
the purpose in seeking donor assistance is therefore two-fold:
(a) to ease the cost of entry for their national consulting firms to establish these knowledge-
based joint ventures in Estonia; and
(b) to effectively subsidize the fee structure for these advisory services until both the internal
cost structure of the consulting firms decreases (due to increasing involvement of local
staff expertise) and the ability of local agro-processing enterprises to pay increases.
24.          Agro-enterprise and farm  management advisory/consultancy joint-ventures is
proposed as a service to the emerging agro-industry private sector. This TA component is ideally
targeted for those Bank loan recipients of major agro-processing investments which require
management advice during the transition period. Similar assistance is needed to developing farm
management and business advisory and training services.



ANNEX-1
Page 5 of 5
25.          Aaro-industry Studies Review. Past bilateral technical assistance provided strategic
studies for the privatization, restructuring and future market prospects for the major agro-
processing complexes (meat, dairy, grains). There is now a much-needed domestic and export
market re-analyses in order to assess optimum capacity levels. These studies will enable
individual enterprises in each sub-sector to make strategic decisions, and will assist banks in their
assessment of the viability of enterprise business and investment proposals.
26.          Joint-Venture Incentives for Forestry Nurseries. This would be a process of
utilizing export credits, bilateral grants for feasibility studies and World Bank credit lines in order
to establish two state of the art nurseries to supply the Estonian market with high quality
containerized planting stock.
27.          Support for the formation of private forest service companies. Such companies
should be able to offer services like forest planning, silviculture operations and harvesting on a
contractual basis. They should also be able to sign full management contracts for absent forest
owners. The intention is to set up a multitude of such small companies, some of which would
be initiated by entrepreneurial former employees of the Forest Department local districts who
might be superfluous once the restitution process takes off.
28.          Institutional strengthening for environmental impact assessment.  Technical
assi.tance would be used to provide the Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Impact
Assessment Department with additional capacity to address environmental issues associated with
the review and approval of agriculture and forestry projects. Counterparts in donor countries with
experience addressing environmental problems in the agriculture and forestry sector would be
identified to participate. Donors with particular expertise in projects involving agro-processing,
forestry wood processing, environmental health and hygiene, and agricultural runoff would be
sought.
29.          Strategic advice on wood industry lending. Many of the commercial banks which
will operate the FIDP credit line have limited knowledge and experience of financing wood
processing and forestry investments. This support would consist of organizing reviews of existing
credit applications, workshops on specific aspects of forest investment and on the job training.
If in this process the quality of credit applications from the forestry sector appear to be
incomplete and/or badly presented, the assistance should be extended to the companies applying
for credit. This activity would support preparation of environmental review procedures to be used
by commercial banks consistent with the procedures now being developed by MoE (with the
Bank under FIDP) for intermediate credit activities in Estonia (donor financed).






ANNEX-2
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 2
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS






ESTONIA
Agriculture Project
Project Objectives and Development Indicators
Component              Immediate Objectives           Indicators                                                Institutional Responsibility
(broad objective)
Land Reform            Speed up land survey & land    Institutiona[l dicators                                   National Land Board MOE
(transfer land to private   registration in the cadastre & title  - Develop state land disposal study & implement recommendations
ownership & develop    book drainage priority areas   - Coordination meetings held on a monthly basis among members
land market)                                          of Land Reform Commission.
Legal Reform Indicator
- Simplify land reform procedures & titling
- Develop incentives to register land in title book
Operational Indicators
- Progress of registration in cadastre all land in drainage
rehabilitation area before construction begins in drainage
rehabilitation areas.
Drainage Rehabilitation   - rehabilitate & maintain drainage  Development Indicators:                            Amelioration Bureau MOA
systems on lands with high    *  Increases in crop & pasture yields to levels specified in
agricultural production potential;  economic analysis
- promote & establish Land and    *  Increases in overall agricultural production from drainage
Water Associations (LWAs) to      rehabilitation areas
take over ownership, management *  No. of farms with positive income (compare to farm models in
& financial responsibility for all  financial analysis) in drainage rehabilitation areas
on-farm systems (once         Physical:
rehabilitated) above the large  *  Length of main canals/drains rehabilitated
main drains;                  *  Length of collector drains rehabilitated
- reorient drainage research &  *  No. of subsurface drain outlets repaired and flushed
training, emphasizing practical    *  No. & area of drainage sites designed, & rehabilitated
field application for cost effective  Planning-
maintenance.                  *  Completion of screening procedures to select area for drainage
rehabilitation
* Stages & status of preselection of areas, & selection of areas
to be rehabilitated
* Completion of drainage research and follow-up dissemination
actions to be taken
*  Number of LWAs formally registered
* Number of LWAs that have agreed to drainage rehabilitation
and submitted formal application to the MOA for the works
required
*  Number of LWAs carrying out regular maintenance
*  Extent & quality of maintenance (physical, financial) by
respective LWAs                                                                          f
o)g J



ESTONIA
Agriculture Project
Project Objectives and Development Indicators (continued)
Component                Immediate Objectives            Indicators                                        Institutional Responsibility
(broad objective)
Advisoy Services         - Trnsfer technolgy             IniLind                                            NAETF MOA
(inuce voluwty chang     - Mobilize & orni  farmers      *   npt: Mtrials bought, equipment installed
ansong rural peopk)      - Edc   farmns, Wuld human
resource & entrpreeuri          *  Actvities: Number of visits, meetings,
cpcity, et.                        demon _utis
*  Involvaeent Fwimns m coonct wih extion
*  Number of advisory contct finaned throug
PASDF
*  Opinion Fumers giving opiion on extension's
usefulness
*  Knowedge Change: Changes n knowledge,
attitudes and skills
*  Prcdee Change: Farmers adopdng improved
agrua practic
*  Resuls: Changes in the standard of living of
farmers
* System Maintenance: Suslainability of advisory
services
Food Quality Control &   - Set up a national program for    ft=ic;l                                         State Veterinary Department MOA
Veteriary Services       monitoring contaminants &       *  Equipment procured according to planned
(protect health of       harmful residues in livestock       schedules
consumers and bwrease    products;                        *  Equipment delivered, and installed
export offood products)  - Improve veternary control of    *  Staff, technicians and scientists are trained in a
infectious diseases to international  timely manner
standrds                        *  Equipment utilization once installed and personnel
trained
*  Operations and mainteance procedures in place
*  Monioring program for livestock diseases in
*  Annual Reports on food and livestock quality
wcoepted by EU
*  Export earning under EU trade agreement for food
items with 60%/ tariff reduction
Land Use Mnagement       - Develop national strategy for  O     auxindica                                    Water Department MOE
(strengthen emnironmental   wetlands                      *  National strategy formulated
controls in agriclture)  - Ensure envirommentally sound    *  System to reclassify wetland developed
planning and construction of    *  No. of environmental screening and EIA completed
drainage rehabilitation             for rehabilitation sites



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 37
ANNEX 3
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    In the financial and economic analysis, the Project benefits of the drainage rehabilitation
component and the agricultural advisory component are going to be quantified in terms of the output of
dairy and beef products. This analysis will be based on a dairy farm model of a typical 25 ha dairy farm
in Estonia. Dairy farms of that size are now the dominating farm type producing the bulk of the
agricultural output and have the largest potential to develop into profitable businesses. Drainage
rehabilitation will increase the agricultural production of mainly forage crops and to a lesser extent cereals
and potatoes. Rehabilitation and good maintenance of drainage systems are a key pre-requisite to improve
the efficiency of livestock and crop production in Estonia. A well drained field has a growing season
that is about a month longer than under wet conditions which then in turn allows higher crop yields or
pasture improvements with nitrogen-fixing legumes. Increasing fodder production will in turn increase
dairy and livestock production and lower production costs. Through the agricultural advisory services
component, farmers will have access to advise on improved technologies or farm management methods
through the support to the agricultural advisory service.
2.    Scope of the Analysis. This annex consists of: (a) a financial and economic farm model analysis
of the profitability of dairy and beef production; and (b) an analysis of economic benefits by Project
component.
C. FARM MODEL ANALYSIS
3.    The farm model analysis assesses the impact of the Project investments in farm drainage
rehabilitation and agricultural advisory services on farm income from dairy farms (the dominant farm type
in Estonia). However, dairy farmers would in many cases have to invest in, for instance, expanding the
herd size, or in new machinery for milking and fodder production to fully utilize the better drained fields
and use the advice offered by the extension services. The farm model analysis therefore provides a
financial and economic rate of return of the Project investments in drainage and advisory services in
combination with assumed complementary privately financed investments in farm machinery, livestock
and buildings. These Project benefits can only be evaluated accurately in conjunction with additional
privately financed on-farm investments through the farm model and not separately by component.
4.    Financial Prices and technical coefficients. Commodity prices and unit costs of production inputs
are based on actual end 1994 farmgate prices'. Farmgate prices for crop and livestock products closely
correspond to the world market prices. Production inputs (including seeds, fertilizers and agro-chemicals)
have been estimated based on information obtained from the Agricultural Research Institute in Saku and
verified through observations in the field. In the absence of reliable farm budget accounts, the costs of
I At appraisal in June 1995, harvest prices for 1995 were not yet available but the price/cost relation has not
changed from end 1994 to mid 1995.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 37
using farm machinery have been estimated based on international standards and modified to reflect
Estonian conditions. Quoted rental prices obtained from individual farm machine operators are
comparable to these estimated costs. The crop budgets and farm models have been discussed with staff
of the Dept. of Agricultural Economics, University of Tartu. The farm models are indicative and reflect
changes which are likely to occur on farms that have access to agricultural advice, medium-term farm
credit resources and a well functioning drainage system.
5.    Profitability of Crop Production. The profitability of the main value adding sub-sector, dairy
production, depends on a certain yield level below which the production of fodder crops and cereals would
not be profitable. The necessary crop yield level can generally only be obtained with adequate drainage.
Most of the analyzed crops, except potatoes, are intermediate goods and used as livestock feed. Therefore
the analysis of the FRR and the ERR focus on the impact of investments and increases of dairy and
livestock production on model dairy farms in Estonia.
Dairy Farm Models
6.    Farm models have been developed to evaluate the profitability of dairy farms of varying sizes and
different technology levels. The financial dairy farm models are developed to assess: (a) the current
profitability of dairy farms; (b) the financial rate of return of on-farm  investments in drainage
rehabilitation, agricultural advisory services and complementary privately financed farm assets; (c)
potential demand for loans, loan conditions, and debt service capacity of a model dairy farm, and (d) the
economic rate of return of on-farm investments in drainage rehabilitation, agricultural advisory services
and privately financed complementary farm assets. The complementary on-farm investments would be
either self-financed or financed through loans obtained from commercial banks and are not provided under
the Project.
7.    Four different dairy farm types are analyzed:
(a)    A private farm of 25 ha representing present situation and practices, with 11 ha arable
land, 3 ha grassland, 8 ha forest, and 3 ha of uncultivated land. The farm is oriented
towards milk production with a herd of 13 cattle including 5 cows. Cropping pattern:
50% barley and other cereals, 44% pasture for hay and grazing, 1% beet and 5% potato.
(Without Proiect Scenario).
(b)    A private farm of 25 ha as in (a) above, assuming changes in land use with crop rotation
extended to nine years including three years of cultivation and six years of pasture,
improved pasture management, improved feed conservation and an increase in herd size
to 21 cattle including 10 cows. It is conservatively assumed that the investments result in
a yield increase of 0.6 t/ha of barley, 4 tlha of potatoes, 2 tlha of pasture and an increase
in production of 200 kg of milk per cow. Cropping pattern: 25% barley, 65% pasture
hay, 5% legumes and 5% potato. (With Proiect Scenario).
(c)    A hypothetical 50 ha farm with the same management, land use, and cropping pattern as
proposed for (b) above, with a herd of 45 cattle including 20 cows.
(d)    A hyRothetical 100 ha farm with the same management, land use, and cropping pattern
as proposed for (b) above, with a herd of 88 cattle including 40 cows.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 37
8.     The transformation of a 25 ha dairy farm, from the present condition to a financially profitable
farm, requires: (a) periodic investments in drainage rehabilitation and maintenance including drainage
rehabilitation in the first year (EEK 8,200) and again after 9 years and annual maintenance costs over 15
years2; and (b) investments in advisory services for the promotion of improved pasture and livestock
management in the first years3 (EEK 2,500); (c) stable expansion/improvement and the acquisition of a
simple 2 cow bucket milking system (EEK 80,000).  Total investment requirements amount to an
estimated EEK 91,000 over a period of 4 years.
9.     The outlined changes in cropping pattern and the yield, increase feed supplies by over 90% from
35 to 68 tons of dry matter (Farm A to Farm B) and would nearly double the livestock carrying capacity
of a 25 ha farm. Milk production can be more than doubled from 16,000 liters to 34,000 liters per year
by reducing the culling rate of cows from 30% to 20%, increasing production by 200 kg per cow, and
discouraging prolonged retention of males in the herd. The increase in herd size from 5 to 10 cows also
contributes to a 55% increase in meat production, approximately from 1.5 to 2.3 ton liveweight per year.
10.    Production costs of milk per liter (excluding labor) decrease from 1.3 EEK/liter to 0.8 EEK/liter,
given the proportionally larger increase in livestock output. At the current farmgate price of 1.4 EEK/liter
in constant 1994 terms, the expected return on labor and capital increases six-fold, from 0.1 EEK/liter to
0.6 EEK/liter of milk produced and sold. Similarly, production costs decrease from 6.5 EEK/kg to 4
EEK/kg of beef production. At an average price of 7 EEK/kg (liveweight), the expected returns on labor
and capital would increase fivefold from 0.6 EEK/kg to 3 EEK/kg.
Table 1. Compsrative Outputs and Production Costs for Milk and Meat
Farn A, 25 ha   Farm B, 25 ha,  Farm C   Farm D
Without Project  lWth Project  50 ha     100 ha
Milk Quantity (l.)                    16,000          34,000          68,000    136,000
Meat Liveweight (ton)                   1.5             2.3             4.9       9.7
Production costs of milk (EEK/I.) incl.  2.05           1.21           1.11       1.02
opportunity costs of farm labor (40
EEK/day)
Production costs of milk (EEK/I.) excl.  1.30           0.79           0.76       0.71
labor
Production costs of meat (EEK/kg) excl.    6.49       4.03             3.88     3.64
labor
Net Benefit (excL. forestry)
EEK per Farm                          8,049           33,798          66,031    135,094
EEK per day Family Labor              18              70              81        94
2 The farmers pay 20 % (in cash or by contributing labor) of the total rehabilitation costs in the first year.
3 The farmer's payments for extension services is 0 in years 0, and 1, 500 in year 2 and 1,000 in years 3-4.
It is assumed that 5 years of extension advice are sufficient to achieve and sustain the described farm improvements.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 37
11.   Under the present situation (Farm A), the farm has a positive cash flow, but returns on family
-labor are negative, assuming an average farm wage of EEK 40 per day. The model therefore accurately
describes the situation of a large number of farms. After expanding herd size and investing in machinery,
buildings and improved pasture (Farm B), production costs of milk would decrease and returns on family
farm labor would increase to more than EEK 40 per work day. As farm and herd size increases (Farms
C and D), economies of scale further decrease the production costs per unit and consequently labor income
from the dairy farm would increase. The potential labor income from the improved farm models (Farms
B, C, D) is more than double the average rural wages in Estonia.
12.   Total farm income would increase from EEK 15,000 (without project) to EEK 41,000 (with
project) including forestry income of about 7,600 EEK/year by changing land use and introducing
improved pasture and livestock management. Even without reaching full employment of 2 family
members, total returns on labor and capital can be expected to reach more than EEK 1,700 per person per
month. Assuming a 10% return on invested capital, net returns on farm labor (including forestry) could
amount to 1,130 EEK/monthWperson, which is about the average per capita income in Estonia.
13.   Environmental impact. The increase in herd size will lead to an increase in the amount of manure
produced on the farrn which could increase non-point source pollution from agriculture if appropriate
mitigation measures are not in place. It will be necessary for the expanding farms to invest in appropriate
manure storage facilities and technology. In the model calculations, investment costs for appropriate
manure storage have been included in estimating the costs of expanding the stables. It is further assumed
that the farms will continue to use the existing technology for spreading manure. All new private
investment involving the construction of cattle sheds for more than 10 cows have been classified by
Estonian law as projects of local importance that have to undergo an environmental impact assessment
before the investment is cleared by the County Environment Department. The Government thereby tries
to assure that appropriate environmental mitigation measures are included. However, even after increasing
herd size, the assumed animal density in the model farms will be lower than in many European countries.
Farm Model Financial Analysis
14.   The financial rate of return (FRR) for these investments on a 25 ha dairy farm is estimated at 22%
and the net present value amounts to EEK 46,644. The FRR calculation is based on the following
assumptions: (a) all costs are in constant end 1994 prices; (b) benefits and costs are calculated for 15
years; and (c) quantifiable net returns are from incremental dairy and meat production. Recent data
published by MOA confirm the analysis and indicate that half of the private dairy farms in Estonia show
a profit in 1994. Dairy farm profitability improved noticeably since 1993, partly due to comparable on-
farm investments.
Farmers' Debt Service Capacity
15.   Farm income of a 25 ha dairy farm, excluding returns on family farm labor and debt service, are
estimated to be EEK 15,000 under present conditions. During the four year investment period, farm
income before financing would drop to EEK 12,000 in the first year of the investment, and then increase
to EEK 21,000 in the second year, EEK 35,000 in the third and stabilize at EEK 40,000 from the fourth
year onwards. The decline in income in the first year is due to an internal build-up of the herd which
prevents the sale of livestock during the first year.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 37
16.   The following calculation illustrates loan conditions and debt service obligations that guarantee
adequate cash incomes for the farmers during the investment period. A loan of EEK 92,000 with a ten
year maturity including a 2-year grace period during which interest is fully capitalized, a real interest rate
of 4% per annum (higher than the prevailing market rates), and debt service limited to no more than 40%
of farm income in any given year would ensure adequate farm income during the entire investment period.
Under these loan terms, farm income after financing of the 25 ha farm would increase from EEK 12,000
in the first year to about EEK 21,000 in the second and third year, EEK 24,000 from the fourth to the
ninth year, and EEK 40,000 after the loan has been fully repaid. Therefore, the estimated minimum
annual farm income of EEK 21,000 during the loan repayment period would in real terms exceed the
average rural income.
17.   The financial analysis shows that the proposed investments will have a large return and could
therefore be financed by the farmers. The analysis conservatively assumes a high level of necessary
complementary investments in private assets, even though many of the farms have already partly
purchased these assets. Therefore, on average, the expected investment in farm assets will be lower than
anticipated in the analysis. Even if farmers would not achieve the estimated expansion in herd size, the
agricultural advice would be used for efficiency improvements that do not require complementary
investments, and, part of the incremental crop production achieved after rehabilitating the drainage systems
that might not be used on the farms, could be sold to local markets.
Farm Model Economic Analysis
18.   Commodity and lnvut Prices. Economic farmgate prices of cereals are calculated using averages
of quoted CIF Rotterdam prices in 1995 of barley, rye and oats. For the purpose of economic analysis,
an average import parity farmgate price of EEK 1,101 per ton for cereals is derived by averaging farmgate
prices of barley, rye and oats. Considering that these cereals are used primarily as livestock feed grains,
this average farmgate price for cereals is projected by correlating its price movement with the Bank's
commodity price forecast of May 1995 for grain sorghum for years 1995 to 2005. The calculated
economic farmgate prices show only minor variations from the actual financial farmgate prices observed.
The average import parity farmgate prices of these feed grains are projected at EEK 1,055 per ton in 1995
up to the year 2000, and EEK 979 per ton in year 2005 and thereafter. Import parity prices have been
calculated for fertilizers and cereals. The economic import parity farmgate prices for N, P, and K
nutrients are derived from Urea, TSP and KCL prices respectively, based on the Bank's forecast of May
1995 for the years 1995 to 2005. Estonia is a net importer of these fertilizers. The farmgate import parity
prices of these nutrients in 1995, expressed in constant 1994 terms, are estimated to be EEK 5.5/kg for
N, EEK 4.5/kg for P, and EEK 3.0/kg for K. All other input and output prices have been converted using
a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 1.0, equating financial and economic prices because of the absence
of any trade restrictions.
19.   The financial farngate price for milk is also used in the economic analysis. The farmgate milk
price is not distorted because of Estonia's liberal and open trade and price policy. However, the costs of
processing milk are high in international comparison because of the inefficient Estonian dairy processors.
With the improvement of competition among milk processors, processing costs are expected to decrease
in the future. Cost savings in processing could translate into higher farmgate milk prices and consequently
increase the financial and economic rate of return of the described investments.
20.   Methodology. The economic analysis of the farm models uses the same prices and assumptions



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 37
as in the financial farm model with one major change. The investment costs for drainage rehabilitation
and advisory services have been increased to reflect the full investment costs of these investments to the
economy and include both the farmers and the Government's proportion In the economic analysis costs
of fertilizer have been increased to reflect import parity prices at the farmgate.
21.    The with Project model shows a positive Net Present Value (NPV) of 30,874 and an economic
rate of return (ERR) of 16%. The ERR and NPV are lower than in the financial model reflecting the full
investment costs for drainage rehabilitation and agricultural advisory services to the economy.
Sensitivity Analysis
22.    Overall, the ERR is robust to significant changes in costs and benefits: benefits would need to fall
by 24% or costs increase by 31% for the ERR to fall to 10% (i.e. with a net present value of zero). If
the benefits are delayed by two years, the ERR would drop to 11%. If simultaneously incremental costs
increase by 20% and incremental benefits drop by 10%, the ERR would drop to 10%. In addition, a risk
analysis for key assumptions, including (i) inadequate rehabilitation and maintenance of the drainage
systems beyond the project period, (ii) shortfalls in projected yield or production increases, (iii) change
of key agricultural output prices is presented below.
23.   Inadequate rehabilitation and maintenance of the drainage system. Farmers would have to fully
finance the rehabilitation of the drainage system after about nine years to increase the life of the drainage
system to around 60 years. If farmers fail to rehabilitate the drainage system, and the incremental benefits
would drop to zero after year 10, then the ERR would drop to 10%. Therefore the Project has emphasized
that farmers are organized in Land and Water Associations (LWAs), and assume full responsibility for part
of the investment costs, and all maintenance as well as future rehabilitation costs. In addition, the benefits
of maintaining the drainage system are very high.
24.    Shortfalls in projected crop yield.  The model reacts sensitive to a shortfall in projected crop
yields. The viability of the livestock farms is jeopardized when crop and pasture yields cannot be
sustained at certain levels, a case when drainage systems are not rehabilitated and maintained. If crop
yields are 10% lower than assumed, the ERR of the economic farm model would fall to 10%. If yields
drop below the calculated level, the farm would then have to substitute the cheaper on-farm produced
forage crops with more expensive cereals purchased on the markets. The sensitivity analysis underlines
the importance of drainage rehabilitation being a pre-requisite to achieve and sustain the projected yields
for crops and pasture. If maintenance of the drainage system is neglected over several years, yields may
drop below the threshold yields resulting in cost of milk production that are higher than the current
farmgate milk price. However, the estimates of incremental crop yields and incremental milk production
are extremely conservative. For instance, barley yields have been projected to increase by only 0.6 t/ha
to around 2.2 t/ha (with Project). The yields used in the "with Project" scenario are comparable to average
Estonian barley yields that have fluctuated between 1.6 and 2.2 t/ha in the last two years whereas yields
on well drained soils are often higher than 3 t/ha.
25.   Change of key aericultural output prices. The model reacts less sensitive to changes of output
prices. If the milk price drops by 20%, the ERR would fall to 9%. However, a drop of the milk price
by 20% is unlikely, because the farmgate price is presently extremely low. Farmgate prices for milk are
likely to increase, because the processing costs of Estonian dairy processing plants are expected to decline
over the next years as the processors increase their productivity and reduce existing overcapacities.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 37
C. ANALYSIS OF PROJECT BENEFITS BY COMPONENT
26.   The economic analysis provides a discussion of the Project benefits for each component.
However, as illustrated in the farm model analysis, many of the benefits of the component are interrelated
and can not be analyzed, or achieved, in isolation.
27.    Country and Agricultural Strategv. The Project follows the GOE's and the Bank's strategy to
transform the rural sector, through supporting private agricultural and rural initiatives, into an
economically viable and competitive market-based system. The agricultural strategy in the past and the
near future aims at maintaining an open competitive agricultural sector based on private ownership of land,
liberal agricultural trade policies, market determined agricultural prices, and limited budget transfers to
the agricultural and rural sector. The liberal agricultural policy of Estonia to date can be described as
exceptional within the former Soviet Union because prices and market distortions have been almost
completely avoided. The recently completed Agricultural Sector Review for Estonia notes that low wages,
low land costs, and the existing stock of skills and infrastructure provide Estonia with a competitive
potential, primarily in dairy and related livestock production. The strategy is therefore aimed at increasing
the efficiency and profitability of agriculture in Estonia and not primarily at increasing agricultural
production or exports. Poverty and environmental issues related to the Project are discussed in separate
sections in the SAR.4
28.   Public versus Private Sector Investment. Following the outlined strategy, the Project selectively
provides investments to improve existing key infrastructure in target areas (farm drainage rehabilitation),
strengthen the public and support the development of a private advisory services, and enhance food quality
control functions. The Project focuses on investments that initiate a gradual transfer of Govemment
functions to the private sector (advisory services, drainage maintenance), or improve core Government
functions (food quality control, public advisory services, environmental controls in agriculture).
Land Reform
29.    Benefits. The Project would support the development of a rural land market by accelerating the
registration of rural land in the cadastre and title book. These measures would (i) facilitate the access
of farmers to long-term credit because commercial banks would be more inclined to accept land with a
secure, transferable and mortgageable title as collateral, and (ii) increase the movement of the production
factor land through sale or lease to efficient agricultural producers, thereby increasing agricultural
production and incomes.
30.    Land with a secure and registered title could be used as an immoveable and mortgageable
collateral to obtain a long-term loan from a commercial bank. Experience shows that long-term mortgage
interest rates are generally lower than long-term interest rates for other loans not using "immoveable" land
or buildings as collateral. At present, it is difficult to obtain long-term loans as the vast majority of all
loans are for a maturity of less than 3 years. In addition, commercial banks in Estonia consider any land
or building without a registration in the title book as moveable collateral and subsequently charge long-
term interest rates of about 20 - 25%. It can be assumed that a mortgage banking system would provide
farmers with access to long-term loan funds with lower than present interest rates. Mortgage banking is
only in the initial stages of development but it is likely that it would develop rapidly, if land and buildings
4 For poverty analysis and for the environmental analysis compare Staff Appraisal Report, Chapter 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 37
are registered in the cadastre and title book.
31.    Cost Effectiveness Analysis. The benefits of land surveys and title registration could be assessed
as the difference between the interest rate for a long-term mortgage loan which is typically lower than the
interest rate of a loan of the same maturity for a different purpose. A simple cost-effectiveness analysis
shows that a reduction of the interest rate for a loan of EEK 100,000 (10 years maturity, no grace period,
constant principal repayment) by about 2% would be sufficient to cover the estimated costs of EEK-9,600
for land surveys of an average farm of about 25 ha. Experience in developed economies demonstrates
that the differential in interest rates for long-term loans between mortgage loans and other loans is
substantially larger than 2%. The Project would therefore have substantial financial and economic benefits
for the economy by supporting the development of mortgage banking. This analysis is based on the
assumptions outlined in Table 2.
Table 2 Cost-Effectiveness Analysis for Land Reform
Costs of Land Surveys and Cadastre Registration (EEK/ha)                  385
Average Size of Farms (ha)                                                 25
Average Costs of Land Surveys per Farm (EEK)                            9,625
Average Value of Agricultural Land5 (EEK/ha)                             5500
Assumed Maximum Mortgageable Collateral (EEK)                         100,000
Average long-term Market Interest Rate                               20 - 25%
NPV of assumed annual interest payments of 2% over 10 years, for a loan  10,010
of EEK 100,000, constant repayment of principle, discounted at 10%.
32.    Cost Recovery. The GOE plans to recover the costs for the land surveys from the property
owners. The GOE is developing incentives for owners to finance the land survey and to register their land
in the cadastre and title book. The land surveys would be conducted by around 200 private surveying
companies operating in Estonia.
Farm Drainage Rehabilitation
33.    Back2round.  Artificially drained farmland has been an important feature of the Estonian
agriculture, representing some 739,000 ha or 66% of the 1.12 million of amble land. Natural conditions
for agriculture are far from optimal, primarily due to the short growing season and the generally poor soil
fertility. The height of the growing season coincides with the period of highest rainfall. Although
precipitation is fairly uniform between 570 and 720 mm/year, 65% of this rainfall occurs during the 5-
5      At present, there is no land market so that the land value is assumed at 1/6 of the average price of
agricultural land in the US.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 37
month period from May to September with peaks in July and August. Plant growth and harvesting on
lands that have inadequate natural drainage are adversely affected by these conditions.  The growing
season on well drained fields is increased by about a month which results in earlier planting and
subsequent higher yields.
34.    The poor soil conditions and the short growing season are the major cause of the relatively low
crop yields in Estonia. Rehabilitation and good maintenance of drainage systems are key to the increase
the productivity of dairy farms. The farm improvements (reduction of livestock feed production costs and
increase in herd outputs) described in the farm model analysis hinge on changes in land use, cropping
patterns, improvement in pasture and livestock management, as well as introduction of improved grass and
legume species in pastures. Higher yields depend on a grassland technology utilizing nitrogen fixing
rhizobium activities of legumes. However, excessive soil moisture and poor soil aeration would inhibit
the growth of the high yielding legumes and consequently lead to nitrogen deficient pastures which would
naturally be overgrown with less productive grass and weeds.
35.    Routine maintenance of farm drainage systems has been reduced substantially since 1989 and has
eroded land productivity over time. Without regular maintenance and periodic rehabilitation, drainage
efficiency and consequently crop yields will continue to decline. If crop yields cannot be sustained above
the described yield threshold that guarantees positive returns, crop lands would be forced out of
production. Moreover, if maintenance is deferred too long, these drainage systems can no longer be
maintained or rehabilitated, and reconstruction would be prohibitive in costs and economically
questionable.
36.    Drainage Rehabilitation Investments. The Project therefore plans to rehabilitate about 60,000 ha
of the most fertile drained agricultural land in about 60 separate locations. Areas for drainage
rehabilitation works will be selected according to site selection criteria that include: (a) environmental
screening; (b) soil fertility;6 (c) land use intensity; (d) condition of the drainage systems; (e) technical
feasibility and designs; (f) investment cost ceiling; (g) status of land tenure; (h) farner's participation
including various pre-conditions for local LWAs; and (i) location of markets.
37.    Rehabilitation investments, including design and supervision, have been limited to expenditures
of not more than EEK 1,500 per ha (in 1995 financial terms). This limitation ensures that rehabilitation
investments are targeted to areas with low rehabilitation costs. In the future, routine maintenance and
punctual rehabilitation will be required to sustain the expected benefits from drainage rehabilitation
investments. While routine maintenance of the systems is required annually, punctual rehabilitation of
the main and collector drains, and repair of the subsurface drain outlets should be carried out every nine
to twelve years, in order to increase the life of the drainage system to 60 years.
38.    Large areas of substandard drained agricultural land will continue to be forced out of production
because it is no longer financially viable to maintain these systems. Current estimates show that without
any intervention about 144,000 ha' of drainage systems would permanently be forced out production, as
maintenance and rehabilitation programs fall behind schedule and reconstruction proves to be financially
6 Drainage systems should have soils of good quality (e.g. more than 40 soil points).
7  Working Paper 4, Drainage Sub-Sector Review and Project preparation, Estonia Agriculture and Forestry
Project, Food and Agriculture Organization (1994).



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 37
inviable. Without the project, the area of adequately drained land is expected to decline from 591,000
-ha in 1994 to 447,000 ha in 1997. In addition, the contraction in livestock population, as caused by the
collapse of the Soviet markets and increasing trade barriers imposed by Russia, had accelerated the rate
at which substandard lands were forced out of production. Consequently, the expected loss in livestock
feed production would outweigh the incremental increases in crop production from the Project. The
incremental feed production from the Project, if translated into livestock production, corresponds to about
2% of Estonia's total milk production and less than 1% of the beef production in 1993.
39.   By rehabilitating only those parts of the drainage system that have the highest potential for
agricultural production, the drainage investments would intensify and increase the efficiency of livestock
fodder production and improve the competitiveness of livestock and dairy farms in the Project areas. It
can therefore be assumed that a small part of the reduction of agricultural lands can be attributed to the
intensification of the production in the Project area.
40.   Cost Recovery. GOE plans to privatize the ownership, operations, and maintenance of all farm
drainage systems by handing over these systems to LWAs after completion of the drainage rehabilitation
works. Responsibilities of LWAs are specified in the Amelioration Law (May 1994) and membership is
compulsory for farmers in the drainage area. GOE has determined that each LWA must agree to
contribute (in cash or in kind) 20% of the cost of the rehabilitation works, the remaining 80% would be
covered by GOE with budget and Project loan funds. In return, GOE would, post-rehabilitation, no longer
accept any further financial responsibility for these on-farm drainage systems. The cost sharing formula
is a legal decision by GOE based on a rough analysis of what farmers' are prepared to contribute in labor
towards the rehabilitation of the drainage system. Each LWA will have full ownership of its area-specific
drainage system and bear full O&M costs. The LWAs are expected to finance a second round
rehabilitation of the drainage systems after 9 - 12 years. Future GOE expenditures for drainage system
maintenance would be reduced by more than the actual contribution to the rehabilitation costs. However,
the ABs will continue to be responsible for operations and maintenance of rivers and main canals outside
the drainage areas, as the main canals often serve other users such as industries and municipalities. Cost
recovery options for maintenance of rivers and main canals are being considered, including the possibility
of: (a) direct charges to landowners; and (b) transferring the financial responsibility of this maintenance
to the respective municipalities which would then recover these costs through local taxes.
41.   Crop Response to Drainage. Rehabilitation and good maintenance of drainage systems in the
project area are expected to increase the growing season by one month, thereby contributing to incremental
yields of 0.6 ton/ha for cereals (primarily barley, oats and rye), 0.9 ton/ha in hay equivalent for grassland,
and 4 ton/ha for potato. These yield increments are considered conservative, and based on the actual
difference between crop yields on lands with good drainage and yields on poorly drained lands. The
cropping pattern in the project area is estimated to consist of 30% cereals, 65% pasture for silage and hay,
and 5% potato on average. Most of the cereal production in Estonia is used for livestock feed and hay
is a major input for dairy production.
42.   Benefits. At full development, incremental production of feed grains in the project area of 60,000
ha (Base Case can be expected to reach 10,800 tons of feed grains, 35,100 tons of hay and 12,000 tons
of potato per year. The incremental crop production, when translated into dry matter (about 31,600 tons)
and nutritional values, is equivalent to the amount of feed required for producing 15 million liters of milk
and 500 tons of beef (carcass weight). These equivalents in milk and meat production would represent
2% of the country's total milk production in 1993 of 750,000 tons and less than 1% of the beef production
in 1993 of 115,000 tons (carcass weight). In addition, the organization of farmers in LWAs and the



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 37
involvement of the farmers in the design of the drainage system could also result in new community
services provided by these LWAs, such as input supplies, machinery pools, marketing and possibly credit.
The drainage rehabilitation investments would directly benefit small local contractors carrying out the civil
works and would also stimulate the development of other rural support services to agriculture in the rural
areas.
43.    An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the farm drainage component has been calculated
separately. The ERR for the farn drainage component is estimated at 23% and the net present value
(NPV) of the projected net benefits amounts to EEK 26 million. The analysis is based on the economic
costs for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the drainage system over 15 years and includes the system
design, works supervision, and LWA establishment costs as well as a second rehabilitation after 9 - 12
years. Drainage system efficiency has been conservatively estimated at 90%. The incremental benefits
are valued in terms of incremental production of hay, feed grains and potatoes. The benefits of
rehabilitating the existing system are high due to substantial yield increases triggered by relatively minor
costs for repairs and flushing of the system.
44.   However, even though the incremental production of feed grain, hay and potatoes could be valued
at market prices, the majority of the incremental production are only intermediate goods used for livestock
production. As shown in the farm model analysis, the farm drainage rehabilitation investments are a
prerequisite for complementary farm improvement investments aimed at increasing herd size, farm
production, and farm income. The combined ERR of investments in drainage rehabilitation, agricultural
advisory services and privately financed complementary investments is consequently lower than only
looking at farm drainage rehabilitation separately. The farm model analysis therefore provides a realistic
approximation of Project benefits for the drainage rehabilitation and agricultural advisory services
components.
Agricultural Advisory Services
45.   Benefits. Extension plays a key role in the dissemination of information on new technologies, or
improved organizational and management practices. Research results have confirmed that extension's
impact on agriculture showed "a significant and positive external effect" in 33 analyzed cases. A
calculation of net economic rates of return in eight studies shows highly positive results in eight cases,
ranging from 14% to nearly 500% (Birkhaeuser, Evenson, and Feder, 1988).
46.   Extension will likely have a substantial impact on the transformation of the Estonian farming
sector to a market oriented production system. However, the impact of extension during the transition
period is extremely difficult to quantify in isolation, due to the paucity of data, the lack of experience with
similar situations, and in many cases the necessity to complement the advice with actual on-farm
investments. Three sets of benefits can be expected: (a) benefits related to agricultural production; (b)
environmental benefits; and (c) societal benefits.
47.   Benefits related to (a) agricultural production in Estonia can be expected especially through
increased production (higher yields), improved product quality (higher milk quality), and improved on-
farm processing (improved storage of livestock feed). In addition, extension can help to reduce production
costs through new technologies but also through promoting cooperation between farmers to jointly use
farm machinery. (b) Environmental benefits can be expected through the promotion of improved and safe
storage and application of manure, enhancement of soil fertility and reduction of agricultural run-off
through drainage. Especially in the drainage rehabilitation area, extension service will play an important



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 37
role in providing information of reducing potential negative impacts of drainage rehabilitation.  (c)
Societal benefits can be expected through provision of advice on alternative employment opportunities in
the rural areas, easing the transition out of agriculture, but also reducing the amount of out-migration from
rural areas. Evidence from a donor-financed extension project suggests that already minor improvements
of the maintenance of the milking equipment result in drastic quality improvements. These quality
improvements result in substantial benefits for the farmers because of the large difference in payment for
low quality and high quality milk.
48.   Public versus private advisory services. The Project assists the establishment of a new advisory
system in Estonia consisting of a public and a private extension service. This requires a redefinition of
the Government's role in extension. The development of a public and private advisory service is based
on a distinction between advice that has public good characteristics and advice that is a private good. The
rationale is that the public sector will continue to pay for, but not necessarily implement, extension in
some areas, but that the farmers will be expected to pay for advice that benefits them directly.  In
addition, some farmer's will have to leave agriculture, and information on alternative income provided
by the public advisory service can speed up that process, thereby enhancing the profitability of the
remaining farmers.
49.   Cost recovery. The proposed support for Estonian advisory services is important, but limited, both
in time and in scope. The Private Advisory Services Development Fund requires only an initial
investment, because the farmers are expected to take over those programs over time. The fund will give
non-transferable grants to farmers to pay for part of the advisory services of private advisors. Over an
eight year period the Government contribution to the private advisory service will be gradually phased out.
In addition, the Government will continue to fund a small public extension service, administered by the
Farmer's Union, and equally supported under the Project. The public extension service will provide more
technical advice of a general nature. The development of the private agricultural advisory services will
reduce the number of county-level field staff (from 6-7 per county to about 3-4) employed by the
Government. The Government will therefore reduce its active involvement in extension to a more strategic
and supervisory role. This will over time substantially reduce GOE's recurrent expenditures



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 37
Table 3: Proposed Phase Out of Goverment Contrlibution to Private Agricultural Advisor Service Cost
Year   Average      Farmner      Farner      PASDF      PASDF    Bank's         Bank's
Annual      Amount       (X)        Amount       (%)       Contribution   Contribution
Advisory                            (EEK '000)             to PASDF     to PASDF
Contract per                                               Amount       (9)
Farmer                                                     (EEK '000)
(EEK)
1      2,200       220           10         1,980       90         1,584        80
2      2,200       330           15         1,870       85         1,496        80
3      2,200       440           20         1,760       80         1,408        80
4      2,200       550           25         1,650       75         1,320        80
5      2,200       660           30         1,540       70         1,232        80
6      2,200       880           40         1,320       60                      0
7      2,200        1,210        55         990         45                      0
8      2,200        1,650        75         550         25                      0
9      2,200       2,200         100        0           0                       0
Food Quality Control and Veterinary Services
50.    Benefits. The Project would improve one laboratory of the State Veterinary Department to
improve health and quality standards in order to protect domestic and foreign consumers, and increase
export potential of agricultural products. The Project investments are aimed at enhancing and monitoring
the quality of food and livestock products in accordance with EU regulations. If Estonian livestock
products meet EU standards, the tariffs for selected livestock exports to the EU would be reduced by 60%
(US $5 - 6 million over the next three years). These investments, in the order of US $1.2 million, would
initiate production quality improvements at the farm level and in the food processing industries. However,
private sector investments in production facilities at the farm level and at the agro-processing level would
have to complement the Project investments to increase the quality of food and livestock products.
51.    Public versus Private Investment and Cost Recovery. The Project supports the initial phase of a
broader program to improve Estonia's food quality at the production, processing and marketing level. Part
of the future control functions would be undertaken by private laboratories, but some of these functions
would remain in Government hands. It is expected that the Veterinary Laboratory would charge for the
tests to partially recover costs.



ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 37
Table 4. Estimated EU tariff reduction for selected Estonian livestock products
Description                                     Quota 1995-97         Tariff          Tariff saved
(ton)          (EEK/ton)        (EEK '000/ton)
Meat swine                                          2,700              n/a               n/a
Chicken carcass (low tariff)                        2,700             3,870              6.2
(high tariff)                                        7,792              12.6
Skimmed milk powder (low tariff)                    2,750             12,659             20.9
Whole milk powder (high tariff)                                      16,890              27.9
Butter                                              2,250            24,542              33.1
Total (low tariff)                                                                       60.3
Total (high tariff)                                                                      73.6
Source: European Commission Directorate - Agricultural Situation and Prospects in the Central and Eastem European
Countries - Estonia (June 1995). Tariffs as of June 1995.
Land Use Management
52.    This component is aimed at strengthening environmental controls in agriculture. It consists of a
wetlands management strategy plan to develop a national strategy for wetlands development and
protection. In addition, the Ministry of Environment receives considerable support to develop and enforce
environmental regulations and monitor the impact of the drainage rehabilitation investments on the
environment.   To analyze the impact of future drainage investments, the Project supports a sectoral
environmental drainage study which analyzes the future options for drained lands.
53.    The agricultural strategy of the Government is aimed at increasing the profitability of the farming
sector through intensification of the production. Present and future yield and input levels of agricultural
production are and will likely be low compared to European agriculture because of the short summers
which do not allow extremely intensive production. The Ministry of Environment actively participates
in developing the framework for future agricultural production at an early stage to ensure adequate
environmental controls and the development of an environmentally sustainable agriculture in Estonia. This
is especially important for the drainage rehabilitation investments financed by the Project.



Table 5                        ANN    3
ESTONIA                                                Page 15 of 37
CROP INPUT: FINANCIAL FARMGATE UNIT COSTS / PRICES
(expressed in 1994 Constant Prices)
Unit      cost/unit
Mechanization
Ploughing                            EEKIhr         134
Discing                              EEKI/hr        116
Harrowing/Rolling                    EEK/hr         114
Drilling                             EEK/hr         169
Planting                             EEK/hr         162
Cult/Ridging                         EEK/hr         126
Spraying                             EEK/hr         156
Mowing                               EEKIhr         117
Raking                               EEK/1hr        114
Baling                               EK/hr          127
Harvest/Lifting                      EEK/hr        258
Combining                            EEK/hr         299
Transport (2ton)                     EEK/hr         135
Inputs
Seed Rye                             EEK/kg         1.8
Seed Wheat                           EEK/kg         1.8
Seed Barley                          EEK/kg         1.4
Seed Oats                            EEK/kg         1.4
Seed Legume                          EEKI<kg        2.5
Seed Potato                          EEK/kg         2.0
Seed Fodder                          EEK/kg         2.5
Seed Pasture                         EEK/kg         1.5
Fertilizer N compound                EEKJkg         4.0
Fertilizer P205                      EEK/kg         3.5
Fertilizer K20                       EEK/kg         2.5
Weedicide                            EEK/kg        40.0
Fungicide                            EEK/kg       100.0
Bags/Twine                           EEK/each       8.0
Labor
Preparation & Sowing                 EEK,/hr        6.0
Weeding                              EEKlhr         5.0
Harvest/Transport                    EEK/hr         6.0
Drainage Maintenance                 EEK/hr         5.0



Esdonln
EeIthwd Opeation Costs of Fwm Madlwy (Contmd, Rans or Pooled Bashl
[exrsd hI eowant 1994 EEK termrl
Cost Compornnts and Cterh.           Mkii  Tmclr P                       im   Hww   Dr            n  I si7    Iuiv  M        N Pk Ha    Pdito              C    Tiort
CaDhalCost ~~~~3f _                        ___ ._____
I                              112 hp   3fr                                      Pidgw                         Ha~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Ilrester H4arut.r-  2 ton
Investmert Cost (ICI                              EEK       80,000  24,000 20.000  16,000 40.000  30.000  50,000  e,000  10,000  6,000  40.000   165,000   300,000    24,000
Expwtd Lih (EL)                                   Hour.    1D 000    5,000 5,o50    5,000  5.000  5s,0o   4,000  5,000   2,000   zo2o   5,000    5,000    5s000    5.000
Psidusi Vakuu FIR) s% dlC                             10%   6a.o0   Z400   Zoo   1,60W  4,000   3,000  5,000    800   1,000    6oo  4,000    16,500    30,000     Z400
Tir Costs I LNb 5,o0o houul                       EEK       20,000                                                                                       20.000
Ns Intnen  Costfor Deprochtlon [MCI ell                     52.000  21,600  18.000  14.400  36,000  27,000 45,000   7,200  9,000  7,200  36,000   146,500   250.000   21,600
St1ssgt- i Dspeciation Cost INC IELI              EEK/tw      4.3    4.3    36    2.9    7.2    5.4   11.3    1.4    4.5    &a           7.2     29.7      50.0      4.3
Avergs Cost of Capi&111C+RV3 / 2J  25%[ / 11000hrsI y    EEK/hv  11.0    3.3    2.8    2.2    5.5    4.1    6.9    1.1    1.4    1.1    5.5      22z7      41.3      3.3
SuNbARI                   15.3    7.6    6.4    5.1   12.7    9.5   18.1    2.5    5.9    4.7   12.7          52.4     91.3       7.6
Machne Oeatina Cos
PApaim & lMAintenan  as % of Deprciation           %         100%    20%    30%    30%    40%    40%    50%    40%    50%    40%    50%          50%      100%      40%
PRpium & MmktsrceCost                             EEKAl       4.3    0.9    1.1    0.9    29    2.2    5s         0.6    2.3    1.4    3.6       14.9      50.0      1.7
Poutin Seic                                       EEKMlv       2.3    0.3    0.5    0.3    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5          0.5       3.0      0.5
Fuel and LubUet b*Il                              EEKIvt    40.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0      40.6      0.0
Thres                                             EEK/hr      4.0                                                                                           4.0
Inwrano &RsPgtautlon                              EEKlhv       2.4    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.6    0.5    0.6    0.1    0.2    0.1    0.6          2.5       4.5      0.4
Gamging/Storag                                    EEKlhr       0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0       0.6      0.0
Subtotnl                  54.2    1.5    1.9    1.4    4.0    a1        6.9    1.2    29      2.1    4.7      17.6    10Z7        Z6
OowatorWaoas                                      EEKlhv      15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0      15.0      0.0           -3
TOTALIMPLEMENTCOS1 c-/                            EEKIrv      84.5    9.1    8.2    6.4   16.7   12.6   25.0    3.7    a.a    6.e   17.4         70.2    209.0  t102 
ACTIVlTYCOSTPERHOU.t d--/                         EEKIhr  -          93.6  9SZ      91.0  101.2   97.2  109.5   86.3   93.3   91.3  101.9    154.8    209.0         94.6           CD
EFFICIENCY FACTOR u--/                                       -         8    0.6Q            0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.6    0.8    0.8         0.6       07       07
TOTAL ACTMTY COST PER HOLIR 1imndedi                         -        134    116    114 1e9    162    1X          126    117    114    127        256      299       135
l Exdudnget of tir"e.
b I Fuwlculated at 0.15 br pe hpv, pku 10% for kcasbtl
cl/ Peprsento tAl tinatd hourlo  (epia -osI opwrlin-f            & opwntor vmgom) d rnucney ute one contmad, rental or pooled basi.
-I-/ With the exoeption d rom<in costs. actb, coat hJcad etdbmaclorwlth th conospondng hplmmi
ell Efidwncwy  aoora4usts br trvl    turnhg. lg, b dIg ewid nloadng Wme
II



ESTONLA
PHYSICAL INPLUTS FOR CROP PRODUCTION, PER HECTARE
Unit         Rye  Barley   Oats Legurn-  Potato Fodder  S Ha    Ha     Ha
Mechanization
Ploughing                         hr/ha         2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    1.3    0.4    0.4
Discing                           hr/ha         1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    0.8    0.3    0.3
Harrowing/Rolling                 hr/ha         0.6    0.6    0.6    1.2    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.2    0.2
Drilling                          hr/ha         0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.3    0.1    0.1
Planting                          hr/ha         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.2    1.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cult/Ridging                      hr/ha         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.2    1.2    0.0    0.0    0.0
Spraying                          hr/ha         0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Mowing                            hr/ha         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.(    C 0    0.0    1.2    1.2    1.2
Raking                            hr/ha         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.8    1.8    1.8
Baling                            hr/ha         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Harves/Lifting                    hr/ha         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.0    5.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Combining                         hr/ha         1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Transport                         hr/ha         0.6    0.6    0.6    1.3    5.0    7.5    1.0    1.5    2.0
Total                             hr/ha         7.6    7.6    7.6    8.9   17.9   19.6    9.0    7.5    8.0
Inputs
Seed                              kg/ha        200    200    180    100   4000       50     13    4.3    4.3
Fertilizer N compound             kg/ha         45     50      70      0      80    100     70      20     30
Fertilizer P205                   kg/hi         40     35      40     45      60     60     45      30     40
Fertilizer K20                    kg/ha         45     50      70     40    100      80     50      30     30
Weedicide                         kg/ha-        2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5       0      0      0       0      0
Fungicide                         kg/ha          0      0       0      0       5      0      0       0      0
Bags/Twine                        No./ha         0      0       0      0      60      0      11     14     18
Labor
Preparation & Sowlng              hr/ha          4       4      4      4       8      a      1    0.3    0.3
Weeding                           hr/ha          4       4      4      4      12     12      0       0      0
Harvest/Transport                 hr/ha         12      12     12     12      40     20      4       6      8
Drainage Maintenance              hr/ha         12      12     12     12      12     12      12     12     12 
Total Labor                        hr/ha         32     32      32     32     72      52     17      18    20
0 



ESTONIA
CROP PRODUCTION COSTS: EEK PER HECTARE (Constant 1994)
_  ~~~~u
Unit          Rya  Badny  Badey    Oats Legume  Potato  Potato  Fodder  SHay   LHay  LFHay
without   with                withou!    with
Mechanzaton
Ploughing                          EEK/ha        335    335    335    335    335    335    335    335    168           56      56
Discing                            EEK/ha        186    186    186    186    186    186    186    186           93     31      31
Harrowing/Rolling                  EEK/ha         68      68     68      68    137       68     68      68      68     23      23
Drilling                           EEK/ha        101    101    101    101    101         0       0       0      51     17      17
Planting                           EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       (    194    194    194         0      0       0
Cult/Ridging                       EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       C    151    151    151         0      0       0
Spraying                           EEK/ha         78      78     78      78      78    125    125        0       0      0       0
Mowing                             EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       C       0      0       0    140    140    140
Raking                             EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       C       0      0       0    205    205    205
Baling                             EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       0i      0      0       0    254    254    254
HarvestVLifting                    EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       (   1,290   1,290   1,290      0      0       0
Combining                          EEK/ha        359    359    359    359    35!          0      0       0       0      0       0
Transport                          EEK/ha         84      54     74      78    16u    540    675   1,013    135    203    270
Subtotal                  1,212   1,181   1,201   1,205   1,36k   2,889   3,024   3,237   1,114    929    996
Inputs                                                                                                                                      3
Seed                               EEK/ha        360    252    280    252    250   7,200   8,000    125         20      7       7         g
Fertilizer N compound              EEK/ha        180    180    200    280         0    280    320    400    280        80    120          C
Fertilizer P205                    EEK/ha        140    105    123    140    158    193    210    210    158    105    140                00
FertilizerK20                      EEK/ha        113    113    125    175    100    200    250    200    125           75      75
Weedicide                          EEK/ha        100      88    100    100    100         0      0       0       0      0       0
Fungicide                          EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       0    400    500        0      0       0       0
Bags/Twine                         EEK/ha          0       0      0       0       0    440    480        0     90    109    144
Subtotal                    893    738    828    947    608   8,713   9,760    935    672    375    486
Labor
Preparation & Sowing               EEK/ha         24      24     24      24      24     48      48      48      6       2       2
Weeding                            EEK/ha         20      20       )     20      20      60     60      60       0      0       0
Harvest/Transport                  EEK/ha         72      72      2      72      72    240    240    120       24      36      48
Drainage Maint.                    EEK/ha         60      60     60      60      60     60      60      60     60      60      60
Subtotal                   176    176    176    176    176    408    408    288           90     98    110
PRODUCTIOr ' COSTS
Including labur/hectare            EEK/ha      2,280   2,095   2,205   2,328   2,148  12,010  13,192   4,460   1,876   1,402   1,592   0x
Excluding labor/hectare            EEK/ha      2,104   1,919   2,029   2,152   1,972  11.602  12,784   4,M72   1,76   1.304   1.42
Including labor/ton                EEK/ton       912   1,309   1,002   1,012    859    751    660    149    469    234    199
Excluding labor/ton                EEK/ton       842   1,199    922    M        Z69    725    639    139     447    217  18Z
oo 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    O h i~~



ESTONIA
INDICATIVE CROP INCOME AND PRODUCTION COST
(expressed in Constant 1994 terms)
1/                     2/      3/      3/       3/
Unit   RE   Barley  Baey    Qata Legume  Potato  Pat  Fodder  IHay   LJHay  LFlHay
without    with                 without    with
Expected Crop Yield per Hectare      Ton/ha        2.5      1.6    2.2      2.3    2.5      16      20      30       4       6       8
Farmgate Price 4/                    EEK/ton     1,002     965    965   1,336   5,000   1,000   1,000       n.a.   450    450    450
Farmgate Crop Values per ha          EEK/ha      2,505   1,544   2,123   3,073  12,500  16,000  20,000      n.a.  1,800   2,700   3,600
Production Costs per ton (excl. labor)    EEKlton  842   1,199    922    936    789    725         639     139    447      217     185
Production Costs per ha (excl. labor)  EEK/ha    2,104   1,919   2,029   2,152   1,972  11,602  12,784   4,172   1,786   1,304   1,482
GROSS MARGIN per ton                 EEK/ton        160   (234       43    400   4,211      2-5    361      n.a.      4    233      265
GROSSMARGIN perhectare               EEK/ha        401    (375       94    921  10,528   4,3'8   7,216      n.a.     14   1,396   2,118
1/ Traded in small quantities.
2/ Fodder beets produced for livestock and not usually traded.
3/ Produced for livestock and used primarily on own-farm, traded in small quantities.
4/ Import parity prices for Rye, Barley and Oats. Actual farmgate prices of these cereals (post harvest) in 1994 were close to import parity prices.
The farmgate price of hay in bales averaged EEK 450/ton in 1994; hay is traded regionally among farms in small quantities. Prices for legume
and potato were actual farmgate prices (post harvest) in 1994.                                                                              H
o   >
-Z
OhiZ



ESTONIA
LIVESTOCK DAIRY FARM MODELS
CRO PRODUCnON AS LESTOK   )SIY P                            FAMILY FARM25HECTARE  1 5          0HECTAREFM  11 1DOHECTAR
I present i        i  uture  i        I _ure                    I future  I
FARM SIZE & IAND USE                                            (ha)               (ha)                 (ha)                    (ha)
Arable Land                                                     11                 11                    22                     44
Natural grassland                                                3                  3                     6                     12
Forests                                                          8                  8                    16                     32
Other                                                            3                  3                     6                     12
Total area                                                      25                 25                    50                    100
CROfP PATTERN                                                    ha                Iha                    ha            %        ha
Barley                                              27.1       3.8      25.0       3.5     25.0         7.0          26.5      14.8
Other cereals                                        22.9      3.2       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0
Legumes                                                0         0       3.6       0.5      5.0         1.4           5.0       2.8
Potato/Veg                                            5.7      0.8       5.7      0.8       2.9         0.8           1.5      0.8
Beet                                                 0.7       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0
Pasture for hay S.                                   4.3       0.6       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0           0.0      0.0
Pasture for hay L.                                  25.0       3.5      65.7      9.2      67.0        18.8          67.0     37.5        6
Pasture for Grazing                                  14.3      2.0       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0           0.0      0.0        "
Total                                               100.0     14.0    100.0       14.0      100         28           100        56        CD
CROP PRODUCTION                                      Yield   Product    Yield   Product     Yield    Product         Yield   Product      0
ton/ha     tMn    tonila        on    ton/ha        tQn         to/ha       I=
Barley                                               1.6       6.1       2.2      7.7       2.2        15.4           2 2     32.6
Other cereals                                        2.4       7 7       2.4      0.0       2.4         0.0           24       0.0
Legumes                                              2.5       0.0       2.5       1.3      2.5         3.5           2.5       7.0
PotatoNeg                                            16.0     12.8      20.0     16.0      20.0        16.0          20.0      16.8
Beet                                                30.0       3.0      30.0      0.0      30.0         0.0          30.0      0.0
Pasture for hay (S)                                  4.0       1.9       0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0           0.0      0.0
Pasture for hay (L)                                  6.0      16.8       8.0     51.5       8.0        105            8.0    210.1
Pasture for grazing                                   2.0      8.7       0.0     22.1       0.0        45.0           0.0      90.0
Straw                                                         13.8                 9.0                 18.9                    39.6
LIVESTOCK FEED SUPPLY                  Dry  not  ton DM  Used )M   ton DM  Used DM    tonrLM        Used DM        tonDM   Used DM
Mattero/og used
Barley grain                         90%  10%         5.8      5.5       6.9      6.2      13.9        12.5          29.4     26.4
Beet                                  11%  10%        0.3      0.3       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0           00        00
Legumes                              90%  10%         0.0      0.0       1.1       1.0      3.2         2.8           6.3       5.7    Q
Hay or silage (S)                    90%  10%         1.7      1.6       0.0       0.0      0.0         0.0           0.0       0.0    CD
Hay or silage (L)                     90%  10%       15.1     13.6      46.4      41.7     94.6        85.1         189.1    170.2     o
Grazing                              100%  30%        8.7      6.1      22.1      15.5     45.0        31.5          90.0      63.0    o
Straw                                 90%  50%       12.4      6.2       8.1       4.0     17.0         8.5          35.7      17.8  
Total DM                                             44.0     33.2      84.6      68.5    173.6       140.4         350.5    283.2



ESTONIA
LIVESTOCK: DAIRY FARM MODELS
LuaVE oSTOCK   Dzmn 1IYFRMMDL                                FAMILY FARM 25 HECTARE    I 50HRECTARE FARM- I10ETRFARM                  |
[ expressed in Constant 1994 Terms]                        I present I        I future  I         I  future   I              I future  7
PROJCFFAMGATEPRICES
Milk                                             EEK/lit         1.4                 1.4                   1.4                     1.4
Cow Beef                                         EEK/kg          6.0                 6.0                   6.0                     6.0
Heifers in calf                                  EEKlhd        2,000               2,000                 2,000                   2.000
Veal                                             EEK/kg          8.0                 8.0                   8.0                     8.0
Beef                                             EEK/kg          8.0                 8.0                   8.0                     8.0
Barley                                           EEKAton        965                 965                   965                     965
Othercereals (average)                           EEKAton       1,181               1.181                 1,181                   1,181
Potato                                           EEKAton       1,000               1,000                 1,000                   1.000
CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION INPUT COSTS
Barley production                                EEK/ton       1.199                922                   922                     922
Other Cereals production (avg)                   EEK/ton        909                 909                   909                     909
Beet production                                 EEK/ton         139                 139                   139                      139
Potato producticn                               EEK/ton         725                 639                   639                     639
Legumes produ(tion                              EEKAton         789                 789                   789                     789
Short Rotation Pasture Hay (S)                  EEK/ton         447                 447                   447                     447
Long Rotation Pasture Hay (L)                   EEK/ton         217                 217                   217                     217
Long Rotation Pasture Hay (LF)                  EEKlton         185                 185                   185                     185        0
Barley production cost DM                       EEK/ton        1,332               1,024                 1,024                   1,024
Beet production cost  DM                        EEK/ton        1,275               1,275                 1,275                   1.275
Legume production cost DM                       EEK/ton         877                 877                   877                     877
Hay/silage production (S) DM                     EEK/ton        497                 497                   497                     497
Hayisilage production (L) DM                     EEK/ton        241                 241                   241                     241
Hay/silage production (LF) DM                    EEK/ton        206                 206                   206                     206
Other Cereals (avg) cost DM                      EEK/ton       1,010               1,010                 1,010                   1,010
Feed additives                                   EEKAton       1,000               1,000                 1,000                   1,000
Animal health                                    EEK/hd           60                 60                    60                       60
Artificial insemination                          EEK/cow          45                 45                    45                       45
Bull (service)                                   EEK/hd        6,000               6.000                 6,000                   6.000
Energy (per ton milk sold)                       EEK/ton         40                  40                    40                      40
Maintenance of buildings                               2%      2,389               4,332                 9,070                  17,847
Maintenance of equipment                              10%      6,090               6,330                 9,800                  13,200
Land Taxes-at 1% of assessed land value
- Arable land                                   EEK/ha          68                  68                    68                       68
-Grassland&otheron-farm                         EEK/ha           15                 15                    15                       15
- Forest                                        EEK/ha           37                 37                    37                       37
-4;



ESTONIA
LIVESTOCK: DAIRY FARM MODELS
PFRFORMANCL INVFNTORY FFED REOUIREMFNTS AND OUTPUTS
F       A    5 HECTARE                   FARM A    100 HECTARE FARM
Ipresent II future  I                 I  fUture   I             I  uure 
LIVESTOCK PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS
Adult Females (of herd)                         %                40                  48                    48                      50
Age, first paurition                            mth              30                  30                    30                      30
Natality                                        %                85                  85                    85                      85
Molality Adult                                  %                 3                   3                     3                       3
Modaity Immature                                %                 5                   5                     5                       5
Male, sale age 0 -12 m                          %                25                  50                    40                      40
Male, saleage24m                                %               100                 100                   100                     100
Female, sale age 0 - 12 m                       %                10                  40                   40                       40
Fema,lesaleage 24 m                             %                 0                   0                     0                       0
Cow ullng                                       %                30                  20                    20                      20
Mik yield                                       it            3,800               4,000                 4,000                   4,000
Sale weight, calves                             kg              120                 120                   120                     120
Sale weight, adult                              kg              500                 500                  500                      500
Sale weight, males                              kg              450                450                   450                     450              H
HERD INVENTORY
Breeding Cows                                   hd              5.0                10.0                  20.0                    40.0             C
Females 2 - 3 yr                                hd              1.7                 2.3                   4.6                     9.1             -
Females 1 - 2 yr                                hd              1.8                 2.3                   4.7                     9.4
FemalesO- 1 yr                                  hd              1.8                 2.4                   4.8                     9.7
Calves bom                                      hd              4.3                 8.5                  17.0                    34.0
Males 0-I yr                                    hd               1.5                2.0                   4.8                     9.7
Males 1 - 2 yr                                  hd              1.5                 2.0                   4.7                     9.4
Males, service                                  hd              0.0                 0.0                   1.0                     1.0
Herd Total                                      hd             13.3                21.0                  44.6                    88.3
HERD FEED REQUIREMENTS                               per hd   ton DM              ton DM                ton DM                  ton DM
Milking Cows                                            5      25.0                50.0                 100.0                   200.0
Male/Female 2-3 yr                                     3.5      6.0                 8.0                  16.0                    31.9
Male/Female 1-2 yr                                      2       6.5                 8.6                  18.8                    37.6
Calves                                                 0.7      2.3                 3.1                   6.8                    13.6
Additives                                                        0.3                0.4                   0.8                     1.6
Total requirement                                              40.1                70.1                 142.3                   284.7
Deficit to transfer in                                          6.9                 1.6                   1.9                     1.5
HERD OUTPUT                                                                                                                                    O
Milk                                            lit           16,150             34,000                68,000                 136,000          CD
Cull Cows                                       kg              728                 970                 1,940                   3,880          t4
Heifers for breeding                            No               0.2                0.3                   0.6                     1.1           a Z
Calves < 1 yr                                   kg               91                 445                   793                   1,585          
Males 2 yr                                      kg              641                 855                 2,051                   4,103
Cull bulls                                      kg                0                   0                   100                     100



ESTONIA
LIVESTOCK: DAIRY FARM MODELS
ESTIMATED MAJOR COSTS OF i ARM BUILDINGS AND EOIPMENT
(expressed in Constant 1934 Terms]
|FAMIL     RM 25 HECTAR       50 HECTARE ARM  II 100 HECTARE F
I present I       I future           I  future                   t I future  I
Buildings                            EEK
Stable per cow                     10,000                  50,000            100,000              200,000                400,000
Stable per hfr/male                 7,500                  37,500             52,500              112,500                217,500
Stable per calf                     4,150                  12,450             16,600               41,500                 78,850
Milking parlour/cow                 1,600                      0              16,000               32,000                 64,000
Feed Store                          1,500                  19,500             31,500               67,500                132,000
Sub Total                                                 119.450            216.600              453.500                892,350
Farm Equipment (excluding rental and contract work)
Tractor Small/Large                40,000        80,000   40,000              40,000               60,000                 80,000
Tractor trailer (2 wheeled)         6,000        14,000    6,000               6,000               10,000                 14,000
Feed mill                           6,000         8,000     6,000              6,000                8,000                  8,000
Milking Machine                     2,400                   2,400              4,800               12,000                 18,000
Milk cooling/storage                6,500                   6,500              6,500                8,000                 12,000    0-
Sub Total                                                  60.900             63.300               98 000                132.000 f
TOTAL                                                     180,350            279,900              551,500               1,024,350    w
go 
CDW



ESTONIA
LIVESTOCK: DAIRY FARM MODELS
RI i JWWTS AND MWEEARUMFAMILY FARM 25 HECTARE                                           50 HECTARE FARM           100 HECTARE FARM
expressed hi Constant 1994 Termsl                         present           I  Aur                f' Iture               [ k]e
BALES
Mik Sales                                      EEK          22,610    36.0%    47,600    54.1%       95,200         58.6%   190,400       61.6%
Cut Cows & Bubs                                EEK           4,365     7.0%      5,820     6.6%      12,240          7.5%    23,880        7.7%
Heifersforbreeding                             EEK             419     0.7%       559      0.6%       1,117          0.7%     2,235        0.7%
Veal (calves sold)                             EEK             731      1.2%     3,558     4.0%       6,341          3.9%    12.682        4.1%
Carcass Beef                                   EEK           5,128     8.2%      6,8 i8    7.8%      16,411         10.1%    32,822       10.6%
Sub-total         EEK          33,253    53.0%    64, '5    73.2%      131,310        80.8%   262,019        84.7%
Crp A Foresty
Other cereals (ind. intemal transfer)          EEK           9,070    14.5%         0      0.0%           0          0.0%        0         0.0%
Potato                                         EEK          12.800    20.4%    16,000    18.2%       15,960          9.8%    16,800        5.4%
Forestry (5 m3/hluyear: 950 EEK/ha standing)   EEK           7,600    12.1%      7,600     8.6%      15,200          9.4%    30,400        9.8%
Sub total         EEK          29,470    47.0%    23,600    26.8%       31,160        19.2%    47,200        15.3%
TOTAL SALES       EEI          62,723   100.0%    87,975   100.0%      162.420       100.0%   309.21        100.0%
ERODUCTION COSTS
Lien1octk
Animal Health                                  EEK             796      1.7%     1,262     2.7%       2,679          3.3%     5,298        3.7%
Artificial Inseminaton                          EEK            225      0.5%      450      1.0%         900          1.1%     1,800        1.2%
Bull replacement                               EEK               0     0.0%         0      0.0%       1,200          1.5%     1,200        0.8%
Barleylfeed DM at cost                         EEK           7 693    16.2%      7,099    15.1%      14,199         17.4%    30,101       20.8%
Beet/feed at cost                              EEK             417     0.9%         0      0.0%           0          0.0%        0         0.0%
Legumes/feed at cost                           EEK               0     0.0%       986      2.1%       2,762          3.4%     5,523        3.8%
Hay silage/feed (Short R.) at cost             EEK             858      1.8%        0      0.0%           0          0.0%        0         0.0%
Hay silagelfeed (Long R.) at cost.             EEK           3 646     7.7%    11,180    23.9%       22,797         27.9%    45,594       31.5%
Other Cereal Deficit, market price             EEK           6 913    14.6%      2,130     4.5%       2,468          3.0%     2,002        1.4%
Feed additives                                 EEK             304     0.6%       385      0.8%         770          0.9%     1,632        1.1%
Energy                                         EEK             646      1.4%     1,360     2.9%       2,720          3.3%     5,440        3.8%
Maintenance of buildings                        EEK          2,389      5.0%     4,332     9.2%       9,070         11.1%    17,847       12.3%
Maintenance of equipment                        EEK          6,090    12.9%      6,330    13.5%       9,800         12.0%    13,200        9.1%
Land Taxes                                     EEK             838      1.8%      838      1.8%       1,676          2.0%     3,352        2.3%
Sub-total         EEK          30,815    65.1%    36,352    77.6%       71,040        86.8%   132,990        91.8%
Cmpa
Oter cereals                                    EEK          6,981    14.7%         0      0.0%           0          0.0%         0        0.0%
Potato/vegetables                              EEK           9,277    19.6%    10,224    21.8%       10,198         12.5%    10,735        7.4%
Sub-total         EEK          16,258    34.3%    10,224    21.8%       10,198        12.5%    10,735         7.4%
Foresty
Land Taxes-Forest land                          EEK            296      0.6%      296      0.6%         592          0.7%     1.184        0.8%
TOTAL COSTS       EEK          47 36    100.0%    46 B72   100.0%       81t831       100.0%   144,909       100.0%
GROSS MARGINS (retums on land, labor & capital)                     _                                 6 9           7
Livestock                                       EEK          ,438    15.9%    28,022    68.2%       60,269         74.7%   129,030         79%      O
Crops (other cereals and potato)                EEK           _612    36.6%      5,776    14.1%       5,762          7.1%     6,065          4#  
Forestry                                        EEK           7,304    47.6%     7,304    17.8%       14,608        18.1%    29,216         18%      w.
TOTAL GROSS MARGIN                                           15.354   100.0%    41,102   100.0%       80,639       100.0%   16,1            100%
TOTAL GROSS MARGIN (exd. Foresl.)            8_050                              33.798                66.031                 135,094



ESTON A
LIVEST )CK: DAIRY FARM MODELS
RETURN ON LABOR & PRODUCT1ON COST OF KLK AND CATrLE            FAMILY FARM 25 HECTARE  || 50 HECTARE FARM   I 100            A
[expres ;ed in Constant 1994 Terms)                          I present           1 I future  |            future                 I future
BASE C AkSE
RETUS  S ON LABOR ANALYSIS                                    work days            work days              workdays                 wordays
Crop/et -d Production: Estimated Labor Requirements
Barley roduction                                                   122                 112                    224                      475
Other ( ereal production                                           102                   0                      0                        0
Legum  production                                                    0                  16                     45                       90
Foddei production (beet)                                            42                  42                     41                       44
Pasture hay production S                                             2                   0                      0                        0
Pasture hay production L                                             8                   0                      0                        0
Pastun: hay production LF                                           49                 129                    263                      525
Sub Total                                                          324                 298                    573                     1,133
ivestoi:k Management- Estimated Labor Requirement$
Feed nmilling & mixing                                               4                   5                      6                        7
Hand f:eding                                                        23                  39                     56                       83
Grazing                                                             10                  10                     12                       15
Cleaning & manure handling                                           8                  13                     19                       28
Milking & deaning                                                   45                  60                     75                      100
Milk handling & deivery                                             15                  20                     25                       25
Recording & accounting                                              20                  40                     50                       50
Sub Total                                                          124                 188                    243                      307
Total Estimated Labor Requirement (work days)                      448                  486                    816                    1,441
GROSS MARGIN PER WORK-DAY (LEK) including forestry                  34                   85                     99                      114
GROSS MARGIN PER WORK-DAY (EEK) exduding forestry                   18                   70                     81                       94
Retum to Capital Per Work-Day, assumed at     10%   1               20                   29                     34                       36
Net Retum to Labor Per Work-Day (induding Forestry)                 14                   56                     65                       78
Net Retum to Labor Per Work-day (exduding Forestry)                  (2)                 41                     47                       58
1 Value of invested capital assumed at 50% of replacement values.
MILK  RODUCTION COST ANALYSIS
Total Livestock Production Cost [cash only]              EEK    30,815               36,352                 71,040                  132,990
Labor costs, calculated at a daily wage of EEK  40       EEK    17,921               19,446                 32,647                   57,633
LESS Production cost of livestock sales [% share of sales]      32.0%                26.1%                  27.5%                    27.3%
Milk Production Cost [induding labor]                    EEK    33,137               41,258                 75,174                  138,518
Quantity of Milk Produced for Sale                       liter   16,150              34,000                 68,000                  136,000
Eroducdion Cost of Milk per Liter [including labor cost]  EEK/lit  2.05                121                     1 '                     lQZ
Milk Production Cost [cash, exduding labor]              EEK    20,952               26,880                 51,504                   96,639
Production Cost of Milk per Liter [cash, exduding labor]  EEK/it   uo                   9                     1                       02 71 
Fam gate Milk Price per liter                          EEKAit      1.40                1.40                   1.40                     1.40             0c
Retums on Labor & Capital per liter of milk sold       EEK/lit    O.10                0 1.                                            am
Cattle Production Cost [cash, exduding labor]            EEK      9,475               9,157                 18,931                   35,217
Quantity of Cattle Produced for Sale liveweight]           kg     1,460               2,270                  4,884                    9,668
Cattle roduction Cost per kg lcash, excluding labor]   EEK/kg  6 A2                    4903                   am36A



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIRY FARM MODEL OF 25 HECTARES
TRANSFORMATION FROM PRESENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
Estiated Crop Prorducion and Livestock Feed Supply
r~ hZIZ                        Year of Development
I Present I     ar1            i Year2        I I Year3 I    I Year4 I        Year5
IOnwards
FARM SEE & LAND USE                                                                                (hal    ha    (ha)   (ha)   (ha)   (ha)        (ha)
Arable Land                                                           11             11             11             11             11                11
Natural grassland                                                      3              3              3              3              3                 3
Forests                                                                8              8              8              8              8                 8
Other                                                                  3              3              3              3              3                 3
Total area                                                            25             25             25             25             25                25
CROP PATTERN                                                           ha l    %      ha    9%       ha      _       ha              a               ha
Barley                                                      27.1      3.8   28.5    4.0   28.0    3.9   25.0    3.5   25.0    3.5   25.0           3.5
Other cereals                                               22.9      3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Legumes                                                        0       0     3.6    0.5    3.6    0.5    3.6    0.5    3.6    0.5    3.6           0.5
Potato/Veg                                                   5.7      0.8    5.7    0.8    5.7    0.8    5.7    0.8    5.7    0.8    5.7           0.8
Beet                                                         0.7     0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0            0.0
Pasture for hay S.                                           4.3      0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Pasture for hay L.                                          25.0      3.5   25.0    3.5   47.9    6.7   59.3    8.3   54.7    7.7   54.7           7.7
Pasture establishment                                         0        0    22.9    3.2   11.4    1.6    6.4    0.9    11    1.5   11.0            1.5       H
Pasture for Grazing                                         14.3     2.0   14.3    2.0    2.9    0.4    0.0    0.0    7.0    1.0    0.0            0.0
Total                                                      100.0    14.0  100.0   14.0    100       14    100      14    107      14    100         14
CROP PRODUCTION                                              Yield  Product   Yield Product   Yield Iroduct   Yield Product   Yield Product   Yield   Product
ton/ha    ton  tontha     tn  ton/ha    ton  ton/ha    ton  ton/ha   Itn  ton/ha       Ito
Barley                                                       1.6     6.1    2.2    8.8    2.2    8.6    2.2    7.7    2.2    7.7    2.2            7.7
Other cereals                                                2.4      7.7    2.4    0.0    2.4    0.0    2.4    0.0    2.4    0.0    2.4           0.0
Legumes                                                      0.0      0.0    2.5    1.3    2.5    1.3    2.5    1.3    2.5    1.3    2.5           1.3
PotatoNeg                                                   16.0    12.8   20.0   16.0   20.0   16.0   20.0   16.0   20.0   16.0   20.0           16.0
Beet                                                        30.0      3.0   30.0    0.0   30.0    0.0   30.0    0.0   30.0    0.0   30.0           0.0
Pasture for hay (S)                                          4.0      1.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Pasture for hay (L)                                          6.0    16.8    8.0   19.6    9.0   42.2   10.0   58.1   10.0   53.6   10.0           53.6
Pasture. first year                                          2.0      0.0    2.0    6.4       3    4.8       4     3.6      4     6.2      4       6.2
Pasture for grazing                                          2.0    11.0    0.0    8.4    0.0    8.4    0.0    8.4    0.0    8.4    0.0            8.4
Straw                                                                13.8           10.0            7.1            9.0            9.0              9.0
LIVESTOCK FEFE  SUPPLY                         Dr4    not ton DM Used DM  ton DMUsed DM  ton DMUsed DM  ton DMUsed DM  ton DMUsed DM  ton DM  Used DM
Matter'   used
Barley grain                                 90%    10%      5.8      5.5    7.9    7.1    7.8    7.0    6.9    6.2    6.9    6.2    6.9           6.2
Beet                                         11%    10%      0.3      0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0
Legumes                                      90%    10%      0.0      0.0    1.1    1.0    1.1    1.0    1.1    1.0    1.1    1.0    1.1           1.0
Hay or silage (S)                            90%    10%      1.7      1.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0   P
Hay orsilage(L)                              90%    10%    15.1    13.6   17.6   15.9   38.0   34.2   52.3   47.1   48.2   43.4   48.2            43.4  JQ
Pasture, first year                          90%    10%        0       0     5.8    5.2    4.3    3.9    3.2    2.9    5.5    5.0    5.5           5.0
Grazing                                     100%    30%      8.7      6.1    8.4    5.9    8.4    5.9    8.4    5.9    8.4    5.9    8.4           5.9   07
Straw                                        90%    50%    12.4       6.2    9.0    4.5    6.4    3.2    8.1    4.0    8.1    4.0    8.1           4.0   o
Total DM                                                    44.0    33.2   49.9   39.6   66.0   55.2   80.1   67.1   78.3   65.6   78.3           65.6   '



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIRY FARM MODEL OF 25 HECTARES
TRANSFORMATION FROM PRESENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
Prices & Costs Used in Model
[expressed in Constant 1994 Terms]
Year of Development
Present I      I Year1i    I      Year2         Year3        L j Year4 j       Year5
Onwards
PRODUCE FARMGATE PRICES
Milk                                                       EEK/lit      1.4            1.4             1.4            1.4             1.4               1.4
Cow Beef                                                   EEK/kg        6               6              6               6               6                6
Heifers in calf                                            EEKlhd    2,000           2,000           2,000          2,000           2,000             2,000
Veal                                                       EEK/kg         8              8              8               8               8                8
Beef                                                       EEK/kg        8               8              8               8               8                8
Barley                                                     EEK/ton     965             965            965             965            965               965
Other cereals                                              EEK/ton    1,181          1,181           1,181          1,181           1.181             1,181
Potato                                                     EEK/ton    1,000          1,000           1,000          1,000           1,000             1.000
CROP AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION INPUT COSTS
Barley production                                          EEK/ton    1,199            922            922             922            922               922
Other Cereals production (average)                         EEK/ton     909             909            909             909            909               909
Beet producion                                             EEK/ton     139             139            139             139            139               139
Potato production                                          EEK/ton     725             639            639             639            639               639
Legumes production                                         EEK/ton     789             789            789             789            789               789
Short Rotation Pasture Hay (S)                             EEK/ton     447             447            447             447            447               447
Long Rotation Pasture Hay (L)                              EEK/ton     217             217            217             217            217               217
Long Rotation Pasture Hay (LF)                             EEKIton     185             185            185             165            185               185
Pasture establishment                                      EEK/ha    2,014           2,014           2.014          2,014           2,014            2,014
Barley production cost DM                                  EEK/ton    1,332          1,024           1,024          1,024           1,024             1,024
Beet production cost  DM                                   EEK/ton    1,275          1,275           1,275          1,275           1,275             1,275
Legume production cost DM                                  EEK/ton     877             877            877             877            877               877
Hay/silage production (S) DM                               EEK/ton     497             497            497             497            497               497
Hay/silage production (L) DM                               EEK/ton     241             241            241             241            241               241
Haylsilage production (LF) DM                              EEK/ton     206             206            206             206            206               206
Other Cereals (avg) cost DM                                EEK/ton    1,010          1,010           1,010          1,010           1,010             1,010
Feed additives                                             EEK/ton    1,000          1,000           1,000          1,000           1,000             1,000
Animal health                                              EEKJhd       60              60             60              60             60                60
Artifidal insemination                                     EEK/cow      45              45             45              45             45                45
Bull (service)                                             EEK/hd    6,000           6,000           6,000          6.000           6,000             6.000
Cow/Heifer in/calf                                         EEKlhd    4,000           4,000           4,000          4,000           4,000             4,000
Energy (per ton milk sold)                                 EEKAton      40              40             40              40             40                40
Maintenance of buildings %                                     2%    2,389           2,619           3,448          4,152           4,152             4,152
Maintenance of equipment %                                    10%    6,090           6,210           6,210          6,210           6,210             6.210
Land Taxes-at 1% of assessed land value
- Arable Land                                              EEKlha      68              68             68              68             68                68     P
- Grassland & other on-fain                                EEK/ha       15             15             15              15             15                15    so
- Forest                                                   EEK/ha      37              37             37              37             37                37
0 



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIRY FARM MODEL OF 25 HECTARES
TRANSFORMATION FROM PRESENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
Performance, Inventory, Feed Requirements and Outputs
Year of Development
| rsn             Year1 I       I Year2 I      I Year3 I       I Year4              Year5
LIE K PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS                                                                                                                       Onwards
Adult Females (of herd)                                    %             40             43              48             51              52                55
Age, first parturibon                                      mth           30             30              30             30              30                30
Natality                                                   %             85             85              85             85              85                85
Mortality Adut                                             %              3              3               3              3               3                 3
Mortality Immature                                         %              5              5               5              5               5                 5
Male, sale age 0-12 m                                      %            25              50              40             65              75                75
Male, sale age 24 m                                                     100            100             100            100             100              100
Female, sale age 0 - 12 m                                  %             10             25              30             40              40               40
Female, sale age 24m                                       %              0              0               0              0               0                 0
Cow culling                                                %             30             10              20             20              20                20
Milk yield                                                lit         3,800          4.000           4,000          4,200           4.400             4,400
Sale weigl,t calves                                        kg           120            120             120            120             120              120
Sale weigt.t, adult                                        kg           500            500             500            S              500               500
Sale weight, males                                         kg          450             450             450            450            450               450
HERD INVENTORY
Breedhng Cows                                              hd             5              6               8             10              10                10       H
Females 2 - 3 yr                                           hd           1.7             1.7            1.7            1.7             2.1               2.3
Females 1 -2 yr                                            hd           1.8             1.8            1.8            2.2             2.3               2.3
Females  - 1 yr                                            hd           1.8             1.8            2.3            2.4             2.4               2.4
Calves born                                                hd           4.3            5.1             6.8             8.5            8.5               8.5      oo
Males 0-I yr                                               hd           1.5             1.2            1.9             1.4            1.0               1.0
Males 1 - 2yr                                              hd           1.5             1.5            1.2             1.9            1.4               1.0
Males, service                                             hd             0              0               0              0               0                0
Herd Total                                                 hd          13.3           14.0            16.8            19.6           19.3              19.0
Cowfl-leifei in/calf purchased                             hd                            0               2              2               0                 0
HERD FEE  REOUIREMENTS                                        parhd  ton DM          ion DM         ton DM          ton DM         ton DM             ton DM
Milking Cc Hs                                                    5     25.0            30.0           40.0            50.0           50.0              50.0
Male/Fem ile 2-3 yr                                            3.5      6.0             6.0            6.0             6.0            7.4               8.0
Male/Fem ile 1-2 yr                                              2      6.5             6.5            5.9             8.1            7.4               6.7
Calves                                                         0.7      2.3             2.1            2.9             2.7            2.4               2.4
Additives                                                               0.3             0.4            0.4             0.4            0.4               0.4
Total requirement                                                      40.1            45.0           55.2            67.3           67.7              67.5
Deficit to ti ansfer In.                                                6.9             5.4            0.1             0.1            2.1               1.9
HERD OUTPUT
Milk                                                      llt        16,150          20,400         27,200          35,700         37,400            37,400    .
Cull Cows                                                  kg         727.5           291.0          776.0           970.0          970.0             970.0   ,
Heifers for breeding                                       No           0.2             0.1            0.1             0.1            0.3               0.3  
Calves < 1 yr                                              kg          91.3           224.6          331.2           536.2          565.9             565.9  
Males 2 yr                                                 kg         641.1           641.1          641.1           820.6          598.3             427.4   00
Cull bulls                                                 kg           0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0               0.0        'r
_   -                                                    w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-4w



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIRY FARM MODEL OF 25 HECTARES
TRANSFORMATION FROM PRESENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
Estimatd Budgets an'1 Profitability
[expressed in Constant 1994 Terms]
Year of Devebment
Prer nt                        I Year1  IYear2  VYear3l         Year4 J            e
SALES
I rvtock
Milk Sales                                                   EEK       22,610          28,560          38,080          49,980          52,360            52,360
Cull Cows & Bulls                                            EEK        4,365           1,746           4,658           5,820           5.820             5.820
Healrs for breeding                                          EEK         419              219            219             255             559                559
Veal (catves sold)                                           EEK          731           1,797           2,649           4,290           4.527             4,527
Carcass Beef                                                 EEK        5,128           5,128           5,128           6,564           4,787             3,419
Sub-total            EEK        33t253          37.450          50,733         66.909          68.052             66.685
Crop & Eorestr
Other cereals (induding internal transfer)                   EEK        9,070               0               0               0              0                  0
Potato                                                       EEK       12,800          15,960          15.960          15,960          15,960            15.960
Forestry (5m3/halyear 950 EEK/ha standing)                   EEK         7,600           7,600          7,600           7,600           7,600              7.600
Sub-total            EEK        29,470         23.560          23,560          23,560          23.560             23,560
TOTAL SALES          EEK        62.723          61.010         74.293          90.469          91.612             90.245
PRODUCTION COSTS
kroc
Animal Health                                                EEK          796             838           1,011           1,177           1,157             1.142
Artificial Insemination                                      EEK          225            270             360             450             450               450           H
Bull replacement                                             EEK            0              0               0               0               0                  0
Barley/feed DM at cost                                       EEK        7,695           8,093           7,951           7,099           7,099             7,099
Beet/feed at cost                                            EEK         417               0               0               0               0                 0
Legumes/feed at cost                                        EEK             0            994             994             994             994               994
Hay slage/feed (Short R.) at cost                            EEK         858               0               0               0               0                 0
Hay silag/feed (Long R.) atcost.                            EEK         3,646           4,253           9.168          12,611          11,633            11,633
OtherCereal Deficit, marketprice                            EEK         6,913           7,094             73             142            2,819             2.489
Pasture estabtishmentrenewal                                 EEK           0            6,457           3,214           1,805           3,102             3.102
Feed additives                                               EEK         304             439             439             439             439               439
CowlHeifer purchase                                          EEK            0              0            8,000           8,000              0                  0
EnerWgy                                                      EEK         648             816            1,088           1,428           1.496             1.496
Maintenan  buildings                                         EEK        2.389           2,619           3,448           4,152           4,152             4.152
Mainten  equipment                                           EEK        6,090           6,210           6,210           6,210           6,210             6.210
Land Taxe                                                   EEK          838             838             838             838             838               838
Sub-total            EEK        30,817          38,922         42,795          45,345          40,388             40,044
Other c_as                                                   EEK        6,981              0               0               0               0                  0
Potatovegetables                                             EEK        9,280          10,198          10,198          10,198          10,198            10,198
Sub-total            EEK        16,261          10.198          10.198          10,198         10,198             10.198
Land Txns-Forest Land                                       EEK          296             296             2')6            29S             296               296
00
TOTAI COSTS          EEK        47.374         49,416          53,2. 9         55,839          50,882             50,538      Qq
GROSS LUARGINS                                                                                                                     
Livesaic                                                     EEK        2.436          ( 472)           7,9 .8         21,564          2' 664            26,641
Cmpe (otherreods and peSo)                                  EEK        5,609             762           5,7i2           5,762           .,762            5s762        0  17
Foray (EEK 915 per hae sanbg)                                EEK        7.304             304           7,3 A           7,304           7,304             7,304s
TOTAL GROSS MARGIN Returs on Labor & CapitW                             15349           j S             21.004          346M0          40n30              39707
(before F hng)



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIRY FARM MODEL 01 25 HECTARES
TRANSFORMATION FROM PRE'iENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
Estimated Costs of Farm Building.; and Equipment
[expressed in Constant 1994 Ternis]
Year of Development
Present       L Yearl          Year2        I Year3 I      I Year4 I         Year5
Onwards
Stable per cow                              10000                  50,000         60,000         80,000        100,000        100,000          100,000
Stable per hfrimale                          7500                  37,500         37,500         37,500         45,000         45,000           45,000
Stable per calf                              4150                  12,450         12,450         16,600         16,600         16,600           16,600
Milking Parlour/cow                          1600                      0              0          12,800         16,000         16,000           16,000
Feed Store                                   1500                  19,500         21,000         25,500         30,000         30,000           30,000
Sub Total                                                         119,450        1 20,950       172,400        207,600        207.600          207,600
Farm Machinery (excluding contract work)
Tractor Small                               40000                  40,000         40,000         40,000         40,000         40,000           40,000
Tractor trailer (2 wheeled)                  6000                   6,000          o,000          6,000          6,000          6.000            6,000
Feed mill                                    6000                   6,000          6,000          6,000          6,000          6,000            6.000
Milking Machine                              2400                   2,400          3,600          3,600          3,600          3,600            3,600
Milk cooling/storage                         6500                   6,500          i,500          6,500          6,500          6,500            6,500
SubTotal                                                           60,900         t ,100         62,100         62,100         62,100           62,100
Total                                                             180,350        11W 3,050       234,500        269,700        269,700          269.700
co
0C



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIRY FARM MODEL OF 25 H' CTARES
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
TRANSFORMATION FROM PRESENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
(expressed in 1994 constant termsa
flTota   Present   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Y iar   Year   Year   Year            Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Ye
1       4years    YearO  1    2       3       4       5      6       7       8      9         10     11      12      13      14     15
INCREMENTAL MAJOR INVESTMENTS a!/
- Major Buildings and Equipment b1                  90%1 80,415            11,430  37,305  31,60
- Drainage Rehabilitation on agricultural Irnd c1/  6,6   3 326    3,326                                                         16.632
-Routin drinage maintenance d/                  Li ;  4,990                1,663   1.663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1.663   1,663         1,663     1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663
-Extension Coals for pasture & livestock u..anag, ent      1,500               0       0    500   1,000   1,000
Total inemenl Investments                                 90231 _32i  13093  38J968  33843   2663   2.            3  _fi663  116632   663        3   .663   6    6    6 
RROSS MARGINS ON FARMING ONLY (returns nLabor&Capital)
- Before Tranformation                                              8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045  8.045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045   8,045
*After Transformation *-                                                   4,290  13,700  27,326  33,426  32,403  32,403  32,403  32,403  32,403    32,403  32,403  32,403  32,403  32,403  32.403
hncremental Bwndits on Returns on Labor & Capital                          (3Q755   5.55   191281  25.381  24.358  253  24 358  24.358  24 358    24-358  24 358  24.358  24 3    24 358  24 358
NET RENEFITS                                                          (3,326 (16,846 (33,313 (14,562  22,718  21,695  22,695  22,695   7.726  22.695    22,695  22,695  22,695  22,695  22,695  22,695
Financial Rate of Return IFRRl                       22.3%
a-/ Purrhases o 4 haders (2 each, in year 2 and year 3) or a total of EEK 16,000 are taken into accout eas part of opereting expenses.
b-/ As many sma/l fnrms are already overcapitalized. representative investments are estimated at 90% of the full requirements for transformation.
cV1 Fiancal coats to farmers amouri to 20% of rehabilitation costs initially, and farmers bear full financial costs of EEK 1,188iha (1994 terms) subsequently after seven years.
dl/ Asmned on average at 10% of iitial rehabilitation costs.
CD
Po)
la
I.



rAMLY DAWFrMr sEOF HEcr^M
1RANWRMAONI              ffTMRW) FU lE PRACTICEI
OEITREPAT (IAtDOTINSINA211 CAPACF ;Y
I {egmsd h,Cm_1  r 11104 TernF Puosm                                                   Yew     Yew     yew     yew    YaW    Yew    Yew    yew    Yew    yew    VW    Yew    yew    Yew    YW
_       1       a        I       A       I     1       I      I       1     JO L    i     is      if     id     if
1 46    11,9        6I       0   40,730 3, 70 7 0       ,7 WM    ,7.   ",770707  3077 30.707 0     ,707      , 0.
ISIII1lDt 1I
A OpenngS.brmallamPidl                                                           ao[w        02.1    12.0r   69.7  76.M  63,550 40.37  6765  21.01  12               0      0      0       0      0
a Efrl*. saimalmopub                                                             S    =e0    so.0    30    mn2  as50  49.057  5            S1.021  V672      0                            O      
o  PhwipdRo#Pmt                                                                  0       0             2.405   12.067  13,070  13.616  14.160  14.747  1543  672     0       0      0      0       0
D b sPem 2 I                                                     1    4.0e       0    6,6 e,6 a        6o,2    8.325  2.604   2270   1.714   1.136    at4    113     0      0       0      0      0
E Ired 9Pay                                                                      0       0       0      2      63326  2te4   2270   1.714  1.136      34    113      0      0       0      o      0
F    dlb-Aama          yaw                                                                   0            0       0      0       0      0 o            0      0      0      0       0      0      0
o                                              -piigme ie--Amaallmk.I  r 0- 0a6,71    7.6                               0       0      0      0       0                                   0      0
H EnV  3dmd-hi-Ami( r                       dI                                   0   6,75    7.t         0        0      0       0      0      o       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
I Paynw d  -_-h-_                                                                       OAnmm  0  0  0   7.63   0      a                                    o      o 0  0  0 
J biuedPayaan   -_  -kAw2/1 4.0%                                                 0      75              163           0  0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0 
L                                                                                010                                                    0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
LUnpa~idbowed on'-1.ie-b-Amsm                                                  0      71      m         0       0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0
M  TllD *4Sc                                                                     0       0       0   16,662   16202  16683  1363  1666   143  163           76       0      0       0      0      0
N  AonJralmnnwAumi dNDeAuasgIi In       d WS%   N                                        0       0   16.662  SC=   15.6   15663  16.,3  15.663  15.663  16.,3  I566  15.36  15.36  JS.M   1530
0    us.P.   -Na.dYl mmFemLamn 6A
NET ICOE AFTER CBT SERVICE                                                   18,406   11.64  21.004  20.770  24,438 23.a24 23,824 23.624  23,824 23,824 336.21  30.707 30.707  30.707  30,707 30.70?
NOIE2 TO USERS OF THl WAN SEPAV6ENY MODEL
1*'lhl l madelan i.ndebaihdn1          ad -   eu. Iu The'    .s lor iw th Uwaononsvo f1f . Alho lbrg    pebonp."daI    d -blward by atg *Vir hu t dy.*m mdl 3.
When 9g    p.dod1 aPd, h bt.clhcl &Af Ogepdabd vA be -A-lodycqiked p               IrioJrf behas d kIed-h%-Awg.
Whend14b IhaO c   eppedt   dlrTIlw bedi Op  c   wWcamAQm*nouIw                                   eedseidbtpik (le hiM.bol<o   Ko bE.C
21ITN model  lobm b eulos h he   pyde bbsden I                  t|l (   p d  eI  p*         I. ln gel    *ui min ad lme pto                  e    n l         d hyw
sppeoi. bIh. Wbeliemeb  oldhimi hileywbsip1-I" otmom Sun 12 Wns le oasdfull).hhadi  otwdyh_ abut if. essl,~mr.bemdes  mid eppud. Pu edin bv
lhme    dtli on b         1  e b_sin. adhuLwo.h&llan idLa  The _mbiu  adbo  _dmad FOa           by puasgF0ALCIh     b w ub  thne  lg U. mf  ua60 bla  e          kiohLo 
V~It.arn di Sue"4 _bp1tawihi lwegaal h     alE-d-_Ibld pemn. htted-No-Ame                 ammome OqiasPd Irdwast bt    e  b kiuid lUbg to rn pwd
UI



Esonk
Eslhilalld kipart Prity Prics of Main Ferlrs
(expresed hI 1904 constant tfrns)
1995               19"                 1997               2000                2005
Urea   TSP   KCL  Urea   TSP   KCL  Urea   TSP   KCL  Urea   TSP   KCL  Urea   TSP   KCL
(N)   (P)   (K   (N)   (PY   (K)   (N)   (P)   (K)   (N    (P)   (KI   (N)   (P)   (K)
FOB, Portof Orion 1/                      USDjAon    174   132   106   160   127   103   145   130   106   155   137   114   150   126   108
FrelghtandlnsurarcetoTalfinn              USD/ton      4    14    20       4    14    20      4    14    20       4    14    20       4    14    20
CIF TaUlinn-Estonla                       USD/Aon    178   146   126   164   141   123   149   144   126   159   151   134   154   140   128
CIF.Talilnn-Estonla(domesticvaluej2/ V   11 4   EEK/ton   2,0S5  1,669  1.440  1,875  1,612  1,406  1,703  1.646  1,440  1,617  1,726  1,532  1,760  1,600  1,463
Port handlng, storage and losses  13%1 EEKfton        61    50    43    58    48    42    51    49    43    55    52    46    53    48    44
ImportersMargin&Trarnport          L721 EEKIton    142   117   101   131   113    98   119   115   101   127   121   107   123   112   102
Wholsalb Price 3/                         EEK/lon   2.238  1,836  1,584 2,062  1.773  1,546  1,673  1,810  .564  1,999  1,899  1,685  1,938  1,760  1,609
Transport,toRetaNets(approx. Ookm)4/      EEK;ton     50    50    50    50    so    50    50    50    s0    50    50    50    50    s0    50
Storage loss andRetails Mwgin 5/   F 10%1 EEKAon    224   184   156   206   177   155   167   181   158   200   190   168   194   176   161
Farmgate Prlces ton                       EEK/lon   2.512 2,070  1,792  2.318   000  1,751  2,110  2,041  1,792 2,249  2,139  1,903 2,180  1,986  1,820
Economic Farmgate Prices /kg              EEKlg      2 5    2.1   1.8   2.3   2.0   1.8   2.1   2.0   1.8   2.2   2.1   1.9   2.2   2.0   1.8
NutrentContent                              %        46%   46%   60%   46%   46%   60%   46%   46%   60%   46%   46%   60%   46%   46%   60%
Economic Farmgate prices per Kg of Nutient  EEKIkg    5.5   4.5   3.0   5.0   4.3   2.9   4.6   4.4   3.0   4.9   4.6   3.2   4.7   4.3   3.0
1/ Urea, bagged any origin FOB, NW Europe; TSP, buk FOB, Gull Port (Florida) USA; KCL buk FOB, Vancouver.
Source: Comnnodty Markets and the Developing Counrbes, a World Bank Quarterly, May 1995.                                                                          3
2/ Exchange rate of US S1.00-EEK 11.43 for 1995 onwarwc.
3/ Wholesale price ncludes provislon of 3% of CIF TalHnn for port handing, storage and loses, and a 7% margin of CIF Talinn.
4/Average distence traveed lo retaile le assumed at 100 km; and tamsport cost In etmated at EL K 0.5/Ion -km.
5/ Petallers margin (Inwuding provision for storage los) Is estimated at 10% of whoesale priem.
U3
0 
I.&



Estonia
Import Parity Prices of Main Crops In 1994
(expressed in 1994 constant terms)
feed grain               l
| Ry a Oats  Barley   Average|
Border Prices (bulk), Tallinn Port, Estc lia 1/                USD/ton      80    107       77        88
Border Prices (bulk), Tallinn Port, Local Currency 2/    12.5   EEK/ton   1,000   1,338    963     1,100
Unloading, port charges and handling                           EEK/ton      63      63      63        63
Importer's (Distributor's) costs of commodities                EEK/ton   1,063   1,400   1,025     1,163
Distribution Costs and Margins to Wholesale 3/          10%   EEK/ton    106    140    103           116
Wholesale Market Price                                         EEK/ton   1,169   1,540   1,128      1,279
Transport, farm to wholesale (1 00km @ EEK 0.5/tonkm)          EEK/ton    (50)    (50)   (50)         (50)
Storage loss and marketing costs, from farm to wholesale 4/  10%    EEK/ton   (117)   (154)   (113)  (128)
Farmgate Prices in 1994  5/                                    EEK/ton   1,002   1,336    965       1,101
1/ Mission estimates; adjusted from CIF Rotterdam and Westem European prices in 1994.
2/ Exchange rate of US $1.00=EEK 12.5 In 1994.
3/ Calculated at 10% of cost of commodities to the distributor.
4/ Estimated at 10% of wholesale market price.
5/ The average farmgate feed grain price Is projected to followthe trend of price forecast for grain sorghum.
Forecast for grain sorghum taken from Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, a World Bank Quarterly, May 1995.
Pa



ESTONIA
FAMILY DAIR' FARM MODEL OF 25 HECTARES
ECONOMIC P STE OF RETURN
TRANSFORAW  TION FROM PRESENT TO FUTURE PRACTICES
[expressed u 994 constat trmsl
IfTotal   Present   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year            Year   Year   Year   Year   Yea    Yeaij
|4yeers    YearO       1      2       3       4       5      6       7       8       9        10     11      12      13      14     15|
INCREMENTAL MAIOR INVESTMENTS a*
-Major Buildings and Equipment b-/                  90   80415             11.430  37,305  31,680
- Drainage Rehabilitation on aeicultlural land c1B   16,632   16,632                                                             16,632
-Rouline drainagemnintenance d-I                    10%   4,990             1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663         1,663     1,663   1,663   1.663   1,663   1.663   1.663
-Extension Costs for psture & ivestock management          8,000    2,000   2.000   2,000   2,000   2,000
Total lcrementalnvestments                               110 037  1B632  15093  40968  35343   3M    163   IS    LS   16 632  1,               SS      3 L 1   i    63 i fi 3 ISO    1663
GROSS MARGINS ON FARMING ONLY freturns on Labor & Capital)
- Before Tranfonmation                                              6,847   6,847   6,647   6,847   6,847   6,847   6,847   6,847   6,847   6,847  6,847  6,847   6,847   6,847   6,847   6,847
- After Transformation as                                                   3,375  12,792  26,461  32,561  31,538  31,538  31,538  31,538  31,538    31,538  31538  31,538  31,538  31,536  31,538
kInrmental Benefts on Retwus on Labor & Capital                            (3-472   50 245  19 614  2 714  fi4 691 246    Z4 61  24691  24.621    2469 1  24 69 1 246 691  24 691  24 691  24621
NET RENEFITS                                                        (18,632 (18,565 (35,023 (15,729  22,051  23,028  23,028  2: 328   8,059  23,028    23,028  23,028  23,028  23,028  23,028  23,028
EBWrganiRaloRetnJBm fiiRR3
Net Present \v ake (NPV)
e*/ Purchiss; of 4 heier (2 each, in year 2 and year 3) for a total d EEK 16,00 are taken into accourt as pail of operatig expenses
b-I As many mall farms ar shady overcapitalized, representative investments are stimated at 90% of the fult requirements for transformation.
c-l Finhcia coas to farmrs nount to 20% of rehabilitation costs iialy: and farmers ber ful fiailw costs of EEK 1 ,1 88ha (1994 terms) stbsequt lly after seven years.
d-I Assumneo in average t 10% of initial rehabiiation mats.                                                                                                                                              H
0
it,



Table 26                                        ANNEX 3
Page 36 of 37
Esonia
Esdmatd Costs po Hectare
Drainage Rahabilitaon and Malntbnance
a..,
Unit      UnttV  Unit Cost  CastiHa
000 Ha       EEK       EEK
Ooen Drains
Repar of open nain dkains                     m        L.9O0     29.20     55.48
Repair of open field crains                   m       11,200     17.00    197.12
Special Maintonano of open main dralns b**I   m       10,600      6.90     73.14
SpechlaMaintenanreofopenfoeld calfns b*'l     m       2.400       5.80    197.12
Sub-total Open Drains
Drainace Systems
Repair of drain outet                         No.       100    628.00      62e80
Pepair ol w013                                No.         7   1020.00       7.14
Addirronal fitrs for surface water removal    No.        48    399.00       19.15
Tillage of Compacted SoU                      ha          63   2.050.00    170.15
Flushing of drains: dametbr<100cmm            m       31,500     10.14    319.41
Flushing of tdains: diametar>100 mm                    3,500     35.60    124.60
Cleaning of wells, maintenance of outets     sum          -      74.00     74.00
and other minor works
Sub-total Drainage Systems                                  [721
Esdmated Financial Costs (In mid-19 I9)                                  1,300.117
Esemated MT'aw-4t Costs/ha (19gSM-roungld d*'I
Esarnatea Financial Costsilia (1 9941-roundgd c'18
Esatd Economic Costs i1994 Canstart Termsl-rounded d''/                    1,0071
e*lJ Prices indude 18% of VAT, on a contact basls.
b**I Over and above normad requrements. due to the ladc of routine maintlnance In the pasL
c-/ defated to 1994 (weighted deflator, 80% on G-5 MLN Index & 20% on domrestc lnflton).
d--/ exclucdng txes deflated (weighted deflator 80% an G-5 MW Index & 20% on domeatc Infaton)
lb 1G4 trms.



EZUI
Aglure Project
Ecnic Analysis of Fawn Orabuge Rahabltaion and Msinteae
(expresed in conatant 1994 EEK  ranss)
aASE CASE
1m      n     am       nu     1am       Z1      2591    2592    2Z    259         29      2        2Q1L    2Q Q  2Z
~~mnftflflfrl MantanEanc MnMLm
Ernwenwag Ssvey & Desgn                                                   ha       3,500 16t,s5   25,000   15,000                                   3.500   16,500  25,000  15.000
Cvi works (40%   and 80% of me sequenced in 2 yean after design)           ha             1,400  8,700   19,900  21,000   9,000        0                0    1,400   8,700   19,900  21,000    9,000      0
Superision o Cvi ork                                                     ha              1,400  8,700   19,900  21,000   9,000        0                0    1,400   8,700  19,900  21.000    9,000       0
Annus Drain Mamnenwn tbyFamws, after rehabllon                            ha                     1,400   10,100  30,000  51,000  50,000  60,000  80,000  58,600   51.300  40,100  39.000   51,000  60,000
Cumulative Impact Aee of Cultbvated Lnd                                    ha                     1,400  10,100  30.000   51,000  60.000  60O,0O  80,000  60.000  60,000  60,000  60,00o    0,000  60,000
LWA Development                                                           No.                15     15       15      15
Exp    Croo    an loIntl          Bs      Furth
Case    Inc
Ion.la  Yiald CPtp
ont  ktert  P~
Ca-als (feed grain: rye. oats belay)   i                                  ton         0       0    227    1,636   4,860   8,262    9,720   9,720   9.720   9,720   9.720   9.720   9.720    9.720   9,720
Paestrea-&.e id (hayevanf                0.9      2.0r                    ton         0       0    737    5,318   15,795  26,852   31,590  31,590  31,590  31.590  31,590  31.590  31,590   31,590  31,590
Pota                                      4.0             5%              ton         0       0    252    1.618   5,400   9,180   10,800  10,800  10.800   10,800  10,800  10,80D   10,800   10.800   10.800
Operlng Eliency of Draag Sysuw                   90%
Inptpved Pastr Menagema Adoption Rae aI           0%
EC KI RFNFFIT ANn COST ANALYSIS
Fargs Pnoe-ereals (feed gra  average) bi/            base947           EEKrton  1 085  1,066   1,066    1,066    1.08    1,055    1.038    1,021    1,005  989     973     973      973     973      973
Famwg  Prlciy c/                                                       EEKtorC           447    447      447      447     447     447      447     447      447     447     447      447     447      447
Farisigas PwF-Potato                                                   EEKlsrY1,0DO   1,000   1,000    1.000   1,000   1.000    1,000    1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1.000    1,000    1,000    1.000
Ybied & Pnice
BNEEFITS                                      Factr
Ptnxlontnc     CofCa (feedgrains)                                      ODD1 0EEK    0      0    242    1,744   5,181    8,712   10i087   9,927    9,789   98613   9,461   9.481    9,481    9,41    9,461
Proiond i lncrease-lHay                      10%000 EEK                            0      0    329   2,377   7,060   12,003   14,121   14,121   14,121   14.121   14,121   14,121   14.121   14,121   14,121
Pni~'~onIlncraae of PotQO000 EEK                                                    0      0    252    1,618   5,400   9.180   10.800  10,800   10,800   10.80   10,800  10.800   10.800  10,800   10.800
nl1lLA R     S                                      ooD EFK      Q      g    =       fi    1z7642  29.895  35 008   34 847  34 u        4 5354  34 38   34 381  34h381  34 381  34381           3
INVESTUERNT ICOSTS d-                        Unit Cost EEK)
EngiwwngSwury&D  egn(7%of CNivWos) [ks           Cia                   0008 EEK    247  1,163   1,762    1.057      0       0       0        0     247    1,163   1,762   1.057        0       0        0        CD
Civiohk-RalhabMation                          1007                    0OO EEK       0  1,410  8,761   20,039   21.147   9,063       0        0       0    1,410   8,761  20.039  21,147    9,063        0
Superion (5% d Ciml Yoda)                       SC /lsa                000 EEK      0     70    438   1,002   1,057       453       0        0       0       70     438   1.002    1,057     453        0        t3
LWADevelopmentCosts *-/                   [87,1     WA                 000EEK       0  1.008   1,008    1,008   1,008       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
AnnuslMaiotenance of Drt  ri/               100. /ha                   OOOEEK       0      0    141    1,017   3,021    5,136   6.042   8,042   6,042   5,901    5,166   4,038   3,927   5,136    6,042
Salm     1      Xbase               000EEK    247  3,651  12,110  24,123  26.233  14,652   6,042   6,042   6,289   8,544   18,127  26,137  26,132   14,682   6,042
Inamt Appoions oFew     9          c       pastue  poto
N         550O    200      800               Ntons      0      0      11      82      244     415     488      488     488      488     488      488     488      486     488
P         40      30.01    00.0     30       P lna      0      0      12      BS      252     428     503      503     503      503     503     503      503     503      503
K         k 55.0  30.01   100.0              Ktons      0      0      14     101      299     508      598     596     598      598     598      598     598     596      598
Total incrumentlCots ofF     - Nutaent bais                           OO EEK       0      0    146   1,07T   3,248   5,627   6,544   6,470   6,397   6,324   6,252   6,252   6,252    8,252   6,252
Inacementl Costsfor lwprvedPssre h--       1   JEEK8l                  000 EEK      0      0       0       C        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0
TOTAL COSTS                                      000 EEK    247  3,651  12,256  25,19t  29,481   20,279  12,586  12,512   12,685  14,888  22,379  32,389  32,384  20,904   12294
NfizAEAIEM                                                               059FETK   4UL  13851 (11432  t1925i  U11    249 223   220021  2234   22m    US    12002   19    iS    13478  22 087
N i(nomRate for ERR m
NPV t 10  (15 fam)                   000 EEK   26,190
a"1 Furter incremental yied due to wipved pasture management long rotation grassilegune pasture having a fe of over six years. Bb re Case does not assume chanees in (no adoption of) pasture management and grassland technology.
b-V Average tarmgat hspowtpty prdce offeed grain (rye, oats. barey) of EEK 1,101 in 1994 is assumeAd to folow die projected trnd (V 8 forecast May 4.1995) for grar, sorghum.
c1I Price of hay is calculated at cost of varial iuts of production (xing  labor). Actul fwgate pces (inflation adjusted) for hay Udaed in 1994 to eary 1995, averaged EEK 450/ton, narly towariabl producthon costs.
d--lJui  1995_ I Sstes, excludig taxes, djusted to 1994 tams. Wrth the exception of LWA development owts, rhabiltation costs are apeated after 7 yaars.
* V A*ustad to 1994 tans tonm budgeted finncial cots in 1995 per LWA of S0.000 EEK for equipment nd supplies. 30,000 EEK for me bngs, conmmunications & -gal documentation, and 10.000 EEK for extson & trining.
ri Estaiaed at10% of intial rehon  costs.
g-V 30% of appictton rat" ae es_asad tube due to iwrved dr_na  condions. 
h-V See oowa  n-/. axenn  w etS for adoption estrated on avwgp at EEe 242ba, Cuttamglcombinig (EEfCK SAts); Fazeen, seads & other inputs (EEK l35ha), an advisory servIc(EEK 40Ma).
W 



I



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
ANNEX 4
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
INTRODUCTION
1.           Introduction. The proposed loan to the agricultural sector in Estonia has been developed
to support economic transformation in rural areas. The loan package includes investments in land reform,
farm drainage rehabilitation, land management studies, agricultural extension and food quality control
laboratory. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) describes the proposed project framework, objectives, and
component in detail while this annex focuses specifically on the environmental review process, mitigation
and monitoring proposed for the project. A draft overview of environmental issues in Estonia is being
prepared by the World Bank. In addition, the World Bank is preparing a "Biodiversity Strategy" which
is financed through the Global Environmental Facility (GEF).
ENVIRONMENTAL FRAMEWORK
2.           Estonian Environmental Strategy. The cornerstone of Estonian environmental policy is
sustainable development which considers the basic needs of the present and the future. Estonian
environmental policy encourages a shift from previous production based actions to use of an ecologically
based systemic approach to balance human needs with ecologically sustainable practices (Keskkond, 1993).
The proposed Agriculture Project must be consistent with Estonian enviromnental goals by including
concerns for the sustainable use of natural resources into plans for development and restructuring of the
rural sector. This environmental review is a mechanism to assure that all relevant environmental
concerns are addressed in the project plans, recommended mitigation, and the project monitoring
program.
3.           Regulatory Framework. Estonia Governmental Regulation No. 314, adopted in November
1992, describes procedures for Environmental Impact Assessment. Under the Estonian system, a project
may be categorized as a project of State Importance, Regional Importance, or one which does not require
an environmental assessment. Projects of state importance are typically larger in scale with potential
impacts crossing county borders. Environmental assessments and reviews for state importance projects
are conducted by the Ministry of the Environment. Projects of regional importance are typically smaller
in size, located within the boundaries of a particular county, and environmental reviews and assessments
are conducted at the County Environmental Departments.
4.           Environmental review is required for all World Bank loans and credits as described in
the World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment."  The purpose of the
environmental review process is:
"to ensure that development options under consideration are environmentally sound and
sustainable and that any environmental consequences are recognized early and taken into
consideration in project design."



Estonia Agriculture Project: Environmental Review                             ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
5.           The World Bank's environmental review procedures require the classification of projects
into one of three categories (A,B,C) that consider the nature, magnitude, and sensitivity of environmental
issues. Classification of a project is achieved through a screening process beginning at initial project
identification and continuing through project appraisal as more information becomes available. A detailed
Environmental Assessment (EA) document is normally required for category A projects that have
potentially diverse and significant environmental impacts. Category B projects undergo a more limited
environmental analysis since the potential environmental impacts are less severe. A project would be
classified into category C during environmental screening if it had minimal to no environmental impacts.
6.           Environmental Screening. Table 1 (to this annex) presents results of environmental
screening by the Estonian Ministry of the Environment and the World Bank for the Project. World Bank
guidelines recommend that the most stringent classification of any individual project component shall
determine the overall project classification. Both World Bank and Estonian environmental review
procedures were used to classify project components. The Farm Drainage Rehabilitation project
component has been classified as category B under the World Bank guidelines. This component will
require further screening for specific investments during the course of project implementation. Therefore,
the environmental review focuses on the proposed screening and impact analysis process.
7.           Environmental screening under the Estonian Environmental Impact guidelines classifies
the Wetlands Management Strategy Plan as of state importance. This study is considered strategically
important to Estonia and thus would benefit from public participation and full consideration of
environmental issues early in the planning process. All other project components were classified under
World Bank guidelines as category C, or under Estonian guidelines as not requiring an environmental
assessment or review. It is recognized, however that actions taken based on technical assistance, studies,
and strategies may have environmental impacts and quite often involve issues with a direct influence on
the environment.  The World Bank encourages and supports the Estonian decision to conduct
environmental assessments on technical assistance, studies, and strategies of regional or state importance.
Environmental reviews performed early in the process reduce the need for more detailed reviews further
downstream and provide a much better framework for future planning decisions.
8.           Consultation Process. The Project is being designed in collaboration with the Ministry
of Environment which is one of the implementing agencies besides the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Finance. The Environmental Assessment Division of the Ministry of the Environment is
responsible for oversight of the preparation of the environmental review activities of the Project. The
Water Department of the Ministry of Environment is responsible for all environmental regulations and
screening procedures regarding the farm drainage rehabilitation component.  A number of non-
governmental organizations have been consulted during the Project preparation process, especially
regarding the farm drainage rehabilitation and the rural finance component. Mission members met with
the Stockholm Environment Institute - Tallinn which has been contracted to prepare supplementary
information and a training course on the environmental screening criteria for commercial banks using the
World Bank Refinancing Facility. Representatives of the Estonia Fund for Nature (Westonia Project)
have provided written comments during preparation which are included in the background working
papers. In addition, mission members met with the Estonian Farmers Union, staff of the University of
Tartu, and the Estonia Academy of Sciences, Institute of Technology. Representatives of the Matsalu
State Nature Reserve have been consulted concerning the design of the environmental screening criteria
for farm drainage rehabilitation in the catchment area of the Reserve, given the ecological importance of
this area.



Estonia Agriculture Project: Environmental Review                             ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
FARM DRAINAGE REHABILITATION
9.           Farm drainage rehabilitation investments. Investments are proposed to rehabilitate and
maintain selected drainage channels and supporting infrastructure in critical farming areas to prevent
permanent damage to existing farm drainage systems. Maintenance of fann drainage infrastructure has
been neglected during the previous years due to a lack of funding resulting in clogging of subsurface
pipes and reduction in channel conveyance capacity. Investments under this loan are very limited, and
will be selected using evaluation criteria to maximize improvements to the most productive agricultural
lands and to minimize environmental damage. Land amelioration (new drainage) will be limited to
rehabilitation of existing works and will not involve investments in new drainage schemes, nor include
polders where submerged lands are now drained for agricultural purposes, or support the drainage of
"wet forests ".
10.         Proposed drainage investments during the investment period include 200 kilometers (km)
of rehabilitation and 1250 km of maintenance of the main drainage channels; 1500 km of rehabilitation
and 3400 km of maintenance of collector (secondary) drainage channels; and pipe cleanout (flushing
sediment) at approximately 15,000 outlets in both main and collector drainage channels during
rehabilitation. Drainage investments are estimated to support approximately 60,000 hectares of land.
Environmental reviews will be conducted, if necessary, following Estonian and World Bank procedures.
However, drainage investment site selection with use agreed screening criteria to minimize potential
damage to the environment. Consultations have been undertaken in preparation of the proposed
Project with representatives of the Matsalu State Nature Reserve to review their views on potential
activities in this catchment area.
11.          Environmental screening and monitoring. The Ministry of Enviromnent has devised a
two step approach to ensure that the drainage rehabilitation investments will be undertaken in a way to
ensure minimal potential damage to the environment and public concerns are'adequately addressed. The
environmental screening and monitoring procedures are based on the Water Law (adopted May 1994) that
regulates water protection matters, and the Law on Environmental Protection of Shores and Banks
(adopted in 1995) that regulates environmental protective measures for natural streams and drains. The
two step environmental screening approach consists of: (a) environmental screening during site selection
and (b) environmental guidelines for the design of drainage rehabilitation schemes:
12.          Environmental screening during the site selection phase
Screening criteria will be used to exclude certain areas as potential project sites to
minimize environmental damage.  These have been drafted by MOE, Dept. of
Environmental Impact Assessment. This includes: (a) work will not be performed in
areas where fish and wildlife habitat is protected by Estonian environmental laws or
rules; (b) wetlands and estuaries with important wildlife or fishery values will be avoided;
(c) important native grasslands or forest lands of special significance will be avoided; (d)
national forest lands will be avoided until a forestry strategy is completed; and (e) polders
will be avoided until special site-specific environmental studies have been prepared.
Each site proposed by the Amelioration Units will be assessed by a local environmental
consultant (financed through project funds) who prepares an EIA report. This report will
be reviewed by the County Environment Department.



Estonia Agriculture Project: Environmental Review                                 ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
-      Water quality of the proposed drainage sites will be analyzed' to determine limits for
nutrient effluent in the drain water after rehabilitation.
-      The local Anelioration Bureau and the County Enviromnent Department would then
inform the public of the proposed project rehabilitation site and give the public (incl.
NGO's) a possibility to comment on the suitability of the proposed site for drainage
rehabilitation .
-      The County Environment Department then decides if the site is acceptable for drainage
rehabilitation and makes a recommendation to MOE and MOA.
-      In the case of highly sensitive areas (for example the catchment area of the Matsalu State
Nature Reserve) a final decision will be taken by MOE.
13.          Environmental screening during the design phase.
-      Environmental Guidelines for design of drainage rehabilitation works will be issued by
MOE. They cover: size of drainage units, regulations for dredging and straightening of
inlets, use of buffer areas or water protection belts, construction of sedimentation ponds,
and, in certain cases, long-term use of agricultural inputs.
-      'County Environment Departments will receive design plans for drainage rehabilitation
for approval and make recommendations on necessary mitigation measures. In critical
cases final r ecommendations will be issued by MOE.
14.          Different and stricter guidelines are proposed for all areas that are under enviromnental
protection, which includes ecologically sensitive areas like the catchment area of the Matsalu State Nature
Reserve. The screening criteria listed above are intentionally stringent to minimize investments in project
sites that require detailed environmental reviews during the early project stages.
15.          Maintenance of open drain channels will be carried out using techniques to minimize
environmental damages such as: (i) limiting excavation to design cross-sectional lines when channel
cleanouts are carried out; (ii) having equipment work from one side of the channel whenever possible;
(iii) consideration of sediment control by minimizing damage to vegetation on channel side slopes when
possible, and (iv) installing sediment traps when needed.
16.          Major Findings.  Potential environmental impacts from drainage rehabilitation and
maintenance include increased sedimentation, loss of critical wetland areas, groundwater table impacts,
loss of wildlife habitats, and downstream impacts to sensitive or protected environments. Mitigation
measures to minimize or prevent these impacts are available and shall be included in the project design.
Some areas of Estonia have large beaver populations that have historically caused damage to drainage
infrastructure. Mitigation against beaver damage may be required for proposed investments near large
beaver populations.
Laboratory equipment will be purchased by MOE using Project funds.



Estonia Agriculture Project: Environmental Review                             ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
17.          Proposed Mitigation Plan. The outlined environmental criteria for drainage rehabilitation
will ensure minimal potential damage to the environment and apply to all future drainage rehabilitation
works (above a certain minimum size). e.g., not only to the project financed rehabilitation works. MOE
plans to issue the environmental guidelines and the consultation process as a Ministerial Decree or a
Governmental Decree. Mitigation measures included in the overall project design are the use of initial
environmental screening criteria for investment site selection; and recommended environmentally sensitive
practices for implementation of drainage improvements. Site specific mitigation measures for investments
will be approved by the Ministry of the Environment county or state environmental impact assessment
staff on a case-by-case basis. Proposed technical assistance for environmental studies and drainage
research and curriculum revisions will provide a complementary infornation source for the development
and recommendation of mitigation measures. Research and studies would emphasize adaptive and applied
field methods to reduce maintenance costs, improve the sustainability of drainage systems, and promote
environmental protection.
18.          All proposed drainage investments shall be consistent with local land use management
plans. The Estonian Act on Land Cadastre passed in October, 1994 and effective January, 1995 describes
procedures for updating and establishing land use management plans. Revised land use management plans
should consider the importance of the environment, economic changes in the municipality, and desirable
social and economic projections
19.          Environmental Monitoring Plan. World Bank monitoring of the drainage investments
would be performed during regularly scheduled supervision missions. The Ministry of the Environment
would screen each proposed drainage investment plan receiving funding under this loan for environmental
impact assessment requirements. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would maintain records of each
letter from the Ministry of the Environment granting clearance of site specific investments. Proposed
investments that require an environmental assessment under the Estonian guidelines would be reviewed
by World Bank environmental staff for consistency and compliance with World Bank procedures.
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
20.          Environmental Benefits. Environmental benefits will be provided by several technical
assistance project components. A reorientation of drainage research and educational curriculum will
emphasize adaptive and field methods to reduce maintenance costs, improve sustainability of drainage
systems, and promote environmental protection. Environmental studies targeted at drainage investments
during the loan period and the future will assure that investments are made in an environmentally
sensitive manner. The agricultural training and field extension services provide an opportunity to
establish more sustainable farming practices than have been used in the past. Extension services would
also address environmental concerns related to farming practices through input provided by local county
environmental staff.
21.          The Wetlands Management Strategy Plan will provide a framework for future
management of these natural resources in a sustainable manner. The proposed Wetlands Management
Strategy Plan would complement the ongoing "Wetstonia Project" and develop a system for valuing
wetlands considering physical, hydrological, and biological criteria, as well as conservation and
development goals. The strategy will provide guidelines and a framework for rehabilitation of peat-mined
areas and wetland restoration projects.



Estonia Agriculture Project: Environmental Review                            ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
CONCLUSION
22.          Conclusion. No major significant adverse environmental impacts are anticipated from
this project. The component that was classified as category B and will require additional environmental
screening for specific investments as they are proposed during the investment period. Therefore, this
environrental review has focused on the procedures in place to ensure that investments are
environmentally sound and sustainable. The project will be regularly monitored for environmental issues
by the Ministry of Environment. The World Bank will be kept informed by MOE of any drainage
investments that require environmental assessments and will review environmental documentation by the
PIU on supervision missions.



ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING
Table 1
Project Component                      Sub-Component                             Fun. d'       World Bank          Estonia'             Implementing Agency
(WB,D,         Catelgory        (S,RI, N)
Gov.)         (A, BC)
A. Land Reform                         1. Institutional strengthening               D               C                N                Ministry of Environment
2. Improving the geo-detic base network     WB               C                N                Ministry of Environment
3. Cadastre survey                          WB               C                N                Ministry of Enviromnent
4. GPS and cadastre survey equipment        WB               C                N                Ministry of Environment
B. Farm Drainage Rehabilitation        1. Physical rehabilitation of the farm      WB                B        Spedfic inveshnen s      Ministry of Agriculture
drainage systemn                                                       Wm undergo envi-
ronmenhl creeni
wI the cocurrnace
of the Mbn. of Env.
2. Development of Land and Water            Gov.             C                N
Association
2. Reorientation of drainage research        D               C                N                 Ministry of Agriculture
and curriculum
5. Support for local cadastre centers       WB               C                N                Ministry of Environment
C. Land Use Management                 1. Strategy for wetlands management        WB/D              C                Si                Ministry of Environment
D. Agricultural Advisory Services                                                  WB               C                 N                Ministry of Agriculture
E. Food Quality and Veterinary                                                     WB               C                 N                Ministry of Agriculture
Laboratory
Standardized forms wll be provided to potena borrowers and trainb  wi be provided to partidpating banks.
too4
1. WB = World Bank, D = Bilateral Donor
2. SI = Project of State Importance
RI = Project of Regional Importance Environmental Impact Assessment required
N   Environmental Impact Assessment not required



Estonia AgricIture Proifet: Environmental Review                                                         ANNEX
Page 8 of 8
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lendiing Program
Country:                             ESTONIA                     Project ID No:                       EE-PA-8403
Project Name:                        Agriculture                 Total Project Cost:                  US $30.9m
Apprisal Date:                       June, 1995
Board Date:                          March. 1996                 Task Manager:                        Brian Berman
Managing Division:                   EC4NR                       Sector:                              Agriculture
Lending Instruments:                 SIL                         Status:                              L
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C):                 B                           Date Assigned:                       November 30, 1994
Dat Sheet Prepared/Updated           January 30,1996
(Please do not kave any ilerans blank: use 'NIA- or 'To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project components)
Rural Land Reform; Farm Drainage Rehabilitation; Land Use Management, Agricultural Advisory Services; and Food Quality
Control and Veterinary Laboratory
Major Environmental Issues; (describes rajor environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
(i) Potential impacts from drainage rehabilitation and maintenance activities such as increased sedimentation, loss of wetland areas,
groundwater table impacts, loss of wildlife habitats, and downstream impacts to sensitive environments; (ii) the Wetland
Management Strategy is of strategic importance to Estonia on a national level and therefore public participation is needed to assure
that environmental issues are g:--n approprint> -onsideration.
Other Env&tonmentaf Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
Training of extension workers will be used to promote environmentally sustainable farming practices.
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
An environmental review was prepared for the proposed project consistent with the environmental review procedures of Estonia and
the Bank. (i) Mitigation recommended for drainage investments included the use of environmental screening criteria for investment
site selection, and recormended environmentally sensitive practices for implementation of drainage improvements. Mitigation
measures for drainage maintenance investments have been recommended and will be included in the project designs. The Ministry
of Environment, Environmental Impact Assessment and Normatives Department would approve the environmental screening and
review of each proposed investnent. An Environmental Impact Assessment of a pilot site has been completed and would be used as
an example for future ElAs. The Project will not fund new drainage improvements or actions to drain 'wet forests". (ii) The
Wetlands Management Strategy will undergo an environmental review in accordance with Estonian EIA regulations.
Jusdficadon/Raonal for Environmental Category: (reasons for environnmental categury selected & explanation of any changes from initial clasification)
Representatives from the Ministry of the Environment and Bank screened individual project subcomponents for environmental review
requirements under Estonian and Bank guidelines. The Wetlands Management Strategy was classified as of State Importance under
the Estonian EIA regulations. This subcomponent was identified as strategic importance to Estonia on a national level, and involves
decision-making concerning environmental issues. An Estonian EIA would be used as a mechanism for public input and assurance
that environmental issues are given appropriate consideration. The farm drainage rehabilitation component was classified as category
'B" under Bank guidelines because implementation of this component has the potential for environmental impacts if appropriate
controls or mitigation are not included in the project design. Each drainage rehabilitation investment proposal submitted for financing
would undergo environmental screening under the Estonian EIA regulations as project proposals are received.
Sttss of CategorY A Environmental Aseessmenc (presents EA start-up date. EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Renarks: (gives status of any other environmental smdies. lists loc groups and local NGOs consited, tell whether borfower has given peraisswion to releae EA, ete)
4,  \ Project preparation has involved consultations with Estonian nongovernmental organizations (Stockholm Environmental Institute -
\     Tallinn, the Estonia Fund for Nature (Westonia Project)), and research institutions (Estonian Academy of Science and the University
of Tartu). Consultations have been conducted with specialists from the Matsalu State Nature Reserve.
Signed by:   j4gq                                                Signed by:
Gieoffrce,!oxvChief,r wNRSeth (EMTEN), Regional Er$ironment Division Chief
January 30, 1996



ANNEX5
Page 1 of 13
ANNEX 5
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Project Management
Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee
A.   Objective.
The Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) is established under the auspices
of the Project to meet regularly on a monthly basis to ensure that all project components
and sub-components are implemented in accordance with the overall objectives of the
project. The day-to-day tasks of the PSC wil be executed by two Joint Project Directors
(one each from the Ministries of Agriculture and Environment respectively).
B.   Tasks
The key tasks of the PSC would inclide the following:
(a)   Facilitate inter-agency national and country level coordination on project related
issues. As an example, the proposed sites for the drainage rehabilitation program
and LWA development will: (i) be included among the priorities of the ENLB's
country Land Board's efforts in speeding up cadastral land surveys and
registration.; (ii) receive timely attention from the MOE for environmental
screening at the county level, and final approval at the national level; (iii) become
specific targets for agricultural extension activities as demand arises out of the
establishment of the LWAs; and (iv) receive complementary investments in rural
infrastructure such as electricity, telephones, roads improvement and others as
appropriate in the context of Government's Public Investment Program.
(b)   Facilitate coordination, in the context of the project, with bilateral donors, EU
Phare, the World Bank and the Government, and assure that financial resources
required from these sources are made available to the implementing agencies in
a timely manner.
(c)   Specifically, assure that budgetary resources from the Government's Public
Investment Program provide adequate levels of funding for the various project
components.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 13
(d)   Regularly review project expenditures and costs to ensure that they are consistent
with the objectives of the project, and within justifiable limits.
(e)   Periodically review the overall status of project implementation, and provide
guidance to resolve major issues that impede the progress of the project.
(f)   Review the compliance of the project with the requirements of the Project
Financiers, including those of the World Bank that cover procurement, accounting
and audit, disbursement, and other covenants of the loan agreement.
(g)   Regularly review the work of the Project Implementation Unit, and as necessary,
recommend ways for improving its efficiency and effectiveness.
(h)   Serve as a forum for cross-fertilization of innovative ideas with the aim of
improving project delivery and targeting, and on certain issues for consulting with
a broader constituency within the Government.
(i)   Ensure that all implementing agencies and key stakeholders are informed of each
other's activities and concerns, and organize follow-up discussion to focus on
major issues affecting the project.
(j)   Ensure that the PIU and the associated departments and boards in the Ministries
adequately meet the requirements of reporting to the World Bank.
B.   Membership
The Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee will be chaired by the Chancellor of
the Ministry of Agriculture:
Chairperson:       *     Chancellor of the Ministry of Agriculture
Members:           *     Joint Directors from MOA and MOE
*     Vice Chancellor for Budget, Ministry of Finance
*     Head of International Relations Department, Ministry of
Finance
*     Director General of the Estonia National Land Board
Associate
Members:          Associate members meet with the PSC once every three months,
including representatives from
*     Ministry of Justice (Land Title)
*     Ministry of Regional Development
*     Ministry of Economy
*     Parliament (Agriculture Committee)
*     Farmers' Union



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 13
*     Producers' Union
*     Stockholm Environmental Institute
Consultative
Group Advisor:    To meet with PSC as required
*     Project Director, Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment
Project (World Bank funded)
2.    Project ImDlementation Unit
A.   Duties
Reporing to the Joint Project Directors of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Environment, and under the overall responsibility of the PIU Project Manager, the tasks
of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) include:
(a)   On behalf of the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Environment (MOE),
coordinate relations with the line implementing agencies, the World Bank, the EU
Phare Project Management Unit (which coordinates all bi-lateral and EU donors
for MOA), and the Ministry of Finance.
(b)   Coordinate, delegate, monitor and supervise procurement activities of the line
implementing agencies responsible for the respective project components, and
provide administrative and operations support throughout the process as required.
On procurement issues and processes, liaise with the Ministry of Finance,
facilitate so that all relevant parties are coordinated in a timely fashion, and
ensure that procedural requirements and documentation are fulfilled satisfactorily.
Ensure that all clearances and approvals for procurement, including those from
the World Bank, are sought and obtained to avoid unnecessary delays.
(c)   Monitor project implementation and expenditures, and prepare and submit loan
disbursement applications to the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance in
accordance with prevailing procedures.
(d)   Coordinate the preparation of quarterly reports covering progress in the physical
implementation of the project and the use of project's funds, and submit these
reports to the Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC) and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The MOF will then consolidate these quarterly
reports into semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the World Bank and
co-financiers. Every six months, these quarterly progress reports will also



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 13
include an implementation plan and work program for the next six months
following the reporting period.
(e)   Facilitate World Bank supervision missions, and follow up the implementation of
recommendations of the Bank supervision reports.
(f)   Follow up all implementation aspects of the project components, taking into
consideration various criteria and conditionalities already established in the
Project Implementation Plans, including covenants of the loan agreement. With
the line implementing agencies in MOA and MOE, prepare monitoring notes
concerning problems and delays, and provide suggestions to remedy these
problems through administrative, financial, technical, institutional or other
measures.
(g)   Prepare special reports, as necessary, for submission to the Project Coordination
Committee.
(h)   Perform an overall project accounting and record keeping tasks for the line
implementing agencies in MOA and MOE, and provide administrative, operations
and logistical support to these implementing agencies.
(i)   Perform or commission other tasks as stipulated in the Loan Agreement (eg.
annual audits, mid-term reviews, monitoring and evaluation, and Project
Completion Report), including the administration, accounting and other
operational requirements, by taking the following World Bank's guidelines into
consideration: Disbursement Handbook Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995)Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981).Guidelines: Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank (March 1982).
(j)   Administer the Special Account, and ensure that reconciliations are performed
regularly on a monthly basis, and replenishment applications prepared for
submission to the World Bank on a timely basis.
B.   Staffing
The PIU, serving both the MOA and MOE, will comprise of 6 project hired persons
including: a Project Manager, a Procurement Specialist, an Accountant, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist, an Administitive Assistant and a Secretary fluent in
Estonian and English. The six persons in the PIU will work on a full-time basis.
Depending on actual requirements, based on implementation experience, the staffing of
the PIU may be reviewed consequently.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 13
Professional services, involving national and international consultants, will be contracted
to assist the PIU. These services cover: (a) procurement; (b) accounting and auditing;
(c) project management training; (d) monitoring and evaluation. These professional
services are covered under separate TORs.
C.   Office Facilities and Requirements
The PIU will be physically located in the Ministry of Agriculture. The MOA will provide
adequate office space for the operational needs of the PIU. The PIU office will be
furnished with (a) adequate office furniture including desks, chairs, filing cabinets,
shelves, storage cabinets, and a set of meeting table and chairs; (b) office equipment
including 5 desktop computers and software, a network server and an internet linkage,
laser printers, a photocopier, 2 notebook computers and software, a fax machine and
adequate telephones including cellular telephones; (c) a minivan for official use; and (d)
miscellaneous office supplies and small equipment.
3.    Professional Services: Procurement
A.   Objectives
The PIU will oversee the overall procurement aspects of the project, and ensure
compliance of the project with all procurement requirements and conditionalities of all
project components. While the PIU has a national Procurement Specialist as part of its
staff, the project wil:l seek professional services on procurement with the objectives to:
(a) provide procurement advice and on-the-job assistance to the implementing agencies
of the various components of the project; and (b) train national staff, on procurement
aspects covering applicable procedures, planning, scheduling, execution, management and
monitoring.
B.   Tasks
Reporting to the PIU Project Manager, the Procurement Specialist of the PIU will
assume the day-to-day responsibility of all procurement reltea matters of the project.
During the first two ,years of the project, the PIU Procurement Specialist will be assisted
by calling on consultant(s) to perform professional services on procurement. The
Procurement Consultant will work with and train the Procurement Specialist of the PIU,
and jointly will cover the following scope of work and responsibilities:
(a)   Work with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and the  implementing
agencies under the Ministries of Agriculture and Enviromnent of the project, and
liaise with the Procurement Advisory Service of the Ministry of Finance.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 13
(b)   Familiarize national counterparts with procurement requirements of the project,
including specific procurement requirements of World Bank funded components,
as provided under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (January, 1995), and Guidelines for Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August,
1981).
(c)   In accordance with the procurement requirements of each project components and
their methods of procurement, work directly with the relevant staff to review
detailed plans and realistic schedules, taking into consideration all of the
necessary steps.
(d)   In connection with the procurement packages of the project, provide advice and
assistance to the relevant national staff, in organizing and managing procurement
activities which apply procurement methods including: (i) International
Competitive Bidding, National Competitive Bidding, International Shopping,
National Shopping for the procurement of goods and works, and (ii) Procurement
of Consultants for technical assistance, specific studies and supervision services.
(e)   Together with the line implementing agencies, review the appropriateness of
procurement packages with respect to methods of procurement, to ensure that
procurement can be undertaken in the most efficient and cost effective manner in
accordance with the relevant guidelines applicable to the project.
(f)   Provide guidance and intensive assistance in identifying and organizing the
necessary technical support for the preparation of Bidding Documents, wh'.h may
generally include: (i) invitation to bid; (ii) instructions to bidders; (iii) form of
bid; (iv) form of contract; (v) conditions of contract including both special and
general; (vi) specifications and drawings; (vii) list of goods or bill of quantities;
(viii) delivery time or schedule of completion; and all of the necessary appendices
and formats. Bidding documents for International Competitive Bidding shall be
based on Standard Bidding Documents issued by the World Bank with minimum
changes, acceptable to the Bank, as necessary to address country and project
specific issues.
(g)   Provide advice and guidance as necessary in connection with the application of
procedures and requirements related to bid opening, evaluation and award of
contract. Particular attention may be paid to time allowance for preparation of
bids, bid opening procedures, circumstances related to clarifications or alterations
of bids, confidentiality, examination of bids, evaluation and comparison of bids,
and applicable domestic preferences.



ANNEX5
Page 7 of 13
(h)   Together with the national counterparts, establish a Procurement Monitoring
system, to allow collection and recording of procurement data by the PIU for:
(i) timely information flow, submissions and approval of TORs, shortlists, and
other review requirements; (ii) prompt reporting of contract award information
by the Borrower to the Bank; (iii) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank;
and (iv) revision of timing of procurement actions and critical paths, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts.
(i)   Specifically, develop contracting capacity at:
the Land Board's Contract Administration Office for contracting out cadastral
survey work with a competitive bidding system, and recommend the staffing and
organizational requirements for such a task, taking into consideration the
requirements of the World Bank and the relationship between the Estonia National
Land Board and its county offices; the Ameloraton Unit and its Amelioraton
Bureaux at the county level for contracting out engineering design, civil works,
and supervision of civil works.
'.ij   In relation to contracts, develop administrative and technical procedures for
review of contract performance as an integral part of the approval process for
justifying contract payments.
(k)   Together with the national counterparts, develop a contract management system
to ensure that records and data are stored systematically, and cross-referenced
with the accounts of the project. The system must allow safe keeping of
procurement documentation for easy retrieval and referencing, with adequate
paper trails in accordance with generally accepted standards. The contract
management system must also be designed to support disbursement, reporting,
and accounting requirements of the project.
(1)   Assist the Ministries in drawing up individual job descriptions for administrative
staff assigned for handling procurement related matters, identify training
requirements for the staff, and perform the necessary training through workshops
and on-the-job applications. As appropriate, provide relevant recommendations
to the Ministries in order to ensure that project procurement activities and their
management are undertaken in an efficient, cost effective and timely manner.
C.   Timing
The PIU will recruit a Procurement Specialist (national expert) for a 5-year period as
part of the PIU staff. In addition, the PIU will require professional services from a
Procurement Consultant (intematonal) for a duration of about 15 person-months over



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 13
a period of 3 years (1996-1998) of the project. Depending on the readiness of the PIU,
the Consultant's services may be mobilized in late 1995 or early of 1996, to speed up
procurement preparation. It is expected that all procurement activities would be fully
undertaken and managed by the PIU and national staff of the Ministries, without further
international consultant's assistance during the last three years of the project.
D.   Qualficatons:
The PIU Procurement Specialist (national expert) must have a university degree in
either administration, business, economics, engineering, management or related technical
fields, with at least 12 months of work experience in commerce, management and
administration. Preference would be given to persons possessing experience in
procurement of goods, works and services internationally and in Estonia.
The Procurement Consultant (international) must possess a university degree and have
at least 5 years of experience in the management and administration of procurement of
goods, works and services in the context of World Bank funded projects. The Consultant
must be familiar with procurement and commercial practices acceptable to the World
Bank, and conversant with the Bank's guidelines on procurement.
Professional Services: Accounting
A.   Objectives
While the PIU recruits a Project Accountant as part of its staff, the project will in
addition require professional services from international and local consultants to: (a) set
up the project accounts and their procedures in accordance with the requirements of the
project; and (b) work with the Project Accountant in the PIU to train relevant national
project staff of the implementing agencies in MOA and MOE, on the project accounts,
including procedures for internal auditing.
B.   Tasks
The scope of the professional services includes the following:
(a)   Based on the requirements of the project, including those outlined in the Bank's
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank (March. 1982), work with the Project Accountant (PIU) and establish
a system for project accounts to cover the accounting needs of all Bank-financed
project components. The project accounting system will take the following into
consideration:
(1)   Development of a chart of accounts, general ledgers and sub-ledgers, as



ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 13
appropriate and consistent with project budgetary and expenditure accounts
for use in the PIU and by the implementing line agencies.
(2)   Documentation  and  requirements  related  to  World  Bank  loan
disbursements, taking into account the necessary records of transactions
to be kept in support of disbursement applications made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and other disbursement procedures.
(3)   Cross-references  and  harmonization  with  contract management,
files/records under project administration.
(4)   Reconciliation of accounts and supporting documentation related to eligible
expenditures with respect to the Special Account of the project, and the
necessary requirements to support replenishment applications.
(5)   Progress and financial reporting requirements as agreed between the
Government of Estonia and the World Bank.
(6)   Relevant covenants of the loan agreement, particularly those relating to
procurement, disbursement, accounts and audit.
(b)   Based on the project accounting system, training sessions will be designed and
delivered to familiarize the accounting and administration staff of the project with
the system. On-the-job training and assistance continue until such time that the
accounting operations of the project run satisfactorily. Loan disbursement
procedures of the World Bank will be incorporated into the thuining sessions.
Mechanisms for internal auditing will be incorporated into the training program.
(c)   Integration of project accounts and budget accounting within each of the
implementing agencies responsible for project components.
Reporting to the PIU Project Manager, the primary responsibility of the Project
Accountant will include the following:
(1)   Reporting to the Project Manager of the PIU, perform  day-to-day
accounting tasks related to all aspects of the project accounts.
(2)   Ensure that all line implementing agencies under the Project conform with
the accounting and financial reporting requirements of the project.
(3)   Work with the Procurement Specialist of the PIU, including the
Procurement Consultant, to harmonize accounting requirements with both
procurement and loan disbursement requirements.



ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 13
(4)   Prepare (a) loan disbursement applications; (b) monthly reconciliation of
accounts of all project components and their expenditures; (c)
replenishment application for the Special Account; and (d) other financial
documentation as necessary. Assist and work with the line implementing
agencies in the preparation of project component budgets. Perform
financial monitoring of project activities, and present financial analysis as
required of the PIU.
C.   Timing
Part-dime professional services from international and local consultants will be required
for a period of about 6 person-months spread over the first two years of the project. It
is expected that the project staff in the Project Implementation Unit and line
implementing agencies will be able to handle the operations of the project accounts
without further assistance, commencing from the third year of the project. The Project
Accountant's position is for a duration of 5 years.
Professional Services: Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
A.   Tasks
As part of the Project Implementation Unit and reporting to the PIU Project Manager,
the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Specialist is required to:
(a)   Work with the Amelioration Unit and Amelioration Bureaux, and assist them in
site selection of drainage systems for rehabilitation, by reviewing the economic
selection criteria used for specific sites. Several factors to be considered include
the following:
the average cost of rehabilitation, including design, civil works and supervision.
Severely damaged systems and areas, requiring more than rehabilitation, must be
excluded as reconstruction costs are prohibitive and economically questionable.
The profitability of farm operations on the proposed sites, and the potential gains
that can be attributed to drainage improvement. This potential may include among
other things: (i) changes to cropping patterns and intensity; (ii) potential
introduction of new technology (such as grassland with legumes); (iii) the
possibility of early planting and delaying harvest time - lengthening growing
season by improving drainage conditions during critical periods; and (iv) crop
yield improvement and expected yields that can surpass profitable yield
thresholds.



ANNEX 5
Page 11 of 13
(b)   Work with the Land Board and the Amelioration Unit, and ensure that priorities
for cadastral land surveys and registration include the proposed drainage sites,
and that timing for these surveys is suitably planned to clarify land tenure issues
in the context of LWA development.
(c)   Work closely with the Amelioration Unit and the Task Force of the Agriculture
Advisory Services, and ensure that LWAs of the proposed drainage sites receive
adequate attention in the targeting of extension and advisory services. Demand
for advisory services among these LWAs will be assessed and responded to.
(d)   Together with the respective implementing agencies, based on the Project
Implementation Plans develop a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for
each project component, incorporating indicators for measuring project inputs,
outputs, impacts (micro and macro) and the means for verifying and measuring
these indicators.
(e)   Periodically, monitor and evaluate progress of implementation of all project
components, provide concise notes on possible measures for overcoming major
issues that constrain project implementation, for the attention of the PIU Manager
and the respective implementing agencies.
(f)   Identify bottlenecks and systemic problems in implementation, and review these
conditions jointly with the relevant agencies to come up with measures and
options for solving these problems. Alert the PIU Project Manager of major
problems that require the attention of the Inter-Ministerial Project Steering
Committee and/or the Joint Project Directors at MOA and MOE.
(g)   Assist all implementing agencies, on financial, cost and economic analyses related
to their project components; and when appropriate also involve the Procurement
Specialist and the Project Accountant of the PIU in the context of these analyses.
(h)   Develop rural income indicators, assess on and off-farm employment in project
target areas, and perform pre and post investment M&E on a sample basis.
(i)    Carry out field monitoring trips on a regular basis, in association with the
implementing agencies, and test out these M&E systems for further refinement
as necessary. Ensure that the M&E systems provide immediate feedback to allow
corrective measures to be introduced as early as possible.
(j)   Liaise with MOA and MOE policy units and develop environmental economic
impact assessment indicators for project target areas.



ANNEX 5
Page 12 of 13
(k)   Follow up on the development of land policy concerning land reform and disposal
of state lands, and monitor progress on land restitution in the project areas,
including cadastral registration and land titling.
(1)   Perform other tasks on monitoring and evaluation as assigned by the PIU Project
Manager.
B.   Timing and Qualifications
The position is for a duration of 5 years in the PIU. The selected person must possess
a university degree in either economics, agricultural economics, business management,
agriculture, engineering, or related fields, with at least 12 months experience in financial
and economic evaluation of investment programs. Experience in monitoring and
evaluation of projects is highly desirable.
Professional Services: Project Management
A.   Objectives
The objective of this consultancy is to train national project staff assigned by the
Ministries of Agriculture and Environment, on relevant aspects of project management
and administration, including monitoring and evaluation.
B.   Tasks
The tasks of the Project Management consultant include the following:
(a)   Conduct a rapid training needs assessment, based on the management and
administration requirements of the project and its components.
(b)   Design an appropriate training package, incorporating fundamental principles of
project management including topics to cover the following:
(i)   application of management principles to plan, organize, staff, control and
direct resources (including budgeting);
(ii)  techniques commonly used in operational planning, including the
application of critical path analysis and resource driven scheduling;
(iii) the use of computer software applications for project planning,
management, and administration, including spreadsheet applications;



Page 13 of 13
(iv)   planning of actions and tasks for achieving project objectives, and
organizing the necessary resources for carrying out the plan;
(v)   communications, including techniques for effective presentations, meetings
and negotiations;
(vi)  task management, including: division of tasks, organization of work
arrangements, roles and functions of work-groups, special task forces,
responsibility matrix, reporting channels, work delegation, and other
management functions and tools;
(vii)  monitoring and evaluation of physical progress of project implementation,
including use of indicators for measuring inputs, outputs, impacts,
progress milestones, and means for verifying these indicators;
(viii)  project administration  requirements, including: files and  records
management, contract management (procurement aspects covered under
a separate terms of reference), project accounts (a separate terms of
reference to set up and maintain these accounts), logistical and secretarial
tasks;
(ix)   other topics, as assessed to be necessary during training needs assessment,
to ensure the delivery of a comprehensive project management training.
(c)   Train staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and project staff of the
implementing agencies, through workshops and on-the-job applications.
C. Timing
Consultant's services will be required for a period of about 3 person-months, and the
training program is to be conducted in three stages: (a) training needs assessment; (b)
design of training sessions; and (c) delivery of training. A combination of international
and local consultants are required for the delivery of the training program. This training
program will be delivered as soon as possible after (a) all PIU staff have been hired; and
(b) accounts and procurement systems are in place.



I



ANNEX-6
Page 1 of 9
ANNEX 6
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES






Estors
AW-Ature F t                                                                                                                              Parametem (In #)
Table 1. Ltd Reform                                                                                                                        Phy.                     Expenditures by Financirs (USS 000)
Detaied Cots                                        QuantYles                   Base Coat (US$'000)   Totals IncludingContingencesa(U U'000) Cont For.  Gross        GOE                    World Bank
Unit     19S6 1997 1993 19s  2000                                  Total 1999  1997 11998 1999 2000 Total Rate Exch. Tax Rate 199 199 19  199 200 Total 19"  199 1i9 199 200 Total
t. Investme  Cosa
A. Land Survey
GPSVors                       1                                          393  393  393   -   - 1,179  439  468  494    -    - 1,401  5.0  59.4    180 176 187 198   -   -  560 264 281 296   -   -  841
Cadatral Survey Support/a   Cadt. Units  1,900 1.900 1,900 1,900 1.900 9,500  848  848  848 848 848 4,238  94? 1,008 1,065 1.122 1,180 5,324  5.0  594  18.0 379 403 426 449 472 2,129 568 805 639 673 708 3.194
Total Investment Costs                                                     1,24240 1   1,240 848 848 5,417 1,387 1,476 1,559 1,122 1,180 8,724               555 590 824 449 472 2.690 832 886 938 673 708 4.035
11. Recurrent Coats
GOECourmtrpartMaringr          myr          1    1    1    -    -    3    8    8    8   -   -   25   10   11   13    -    -   34 0.00.0                 0.0  10 11  13   -   -   34
GOETeTdvcalStaff               myr         5    5    5    -    -   15   21   21   21   --           63   24   28   32    -    -   85  0.0 0.0           00 24  28  32   -   -   85
Tot lRecurrent Costs                                                         29   29   29   -         88   34   40   45    -    -  119                        34  40  45      - 119
ToWt                                                                       1,270 1.270 1,270 848 848 5,505 1,421 1,516 1,605 1,122 1,180 6,843                589 630 669 449 472 2,809 832 886 93M 673 708 4.035
la Survey costs wndue procing and padcau   of all ncssy doornts fbr adastrr regstrabon. This volnew of work repents the anbre program of cadata survey of de ENLB.
I. 



TAilsA PMa clm     mdOs             rSbg                                                                                                                                       Py                                             Epsdr   y b,d               Ul  U
Ossletd coeb                                                          CasiO..                              ossC4ost (US 160)        T     ln brab  Cngi          IUS  60   _Codt Fr.  Gras                    BOE                          0,mM as                         FWAtte
thiN   5856   it"   lOg    1066-30-0         . -0 Te  in  a   ig      ueun   o   i          iu ieeiwe301TW    os  at T    at                             wi1ie20Toa11116    ee  ee  6    ot   6  S16--30                                   o
L' -w     a 'Cost
A. En*&egbe   gi0avSyst"& SkAdas%)   hens16,500 25.0010 15,000                    -      -56.500 137   207   124-N                488 155   271   179        -     -   606   5.0  26.3       18.0  32  54  36        -   -  1322127 217   143         - -487 . . . . .                        .
B. ChI Wuks-&SsoeRSmUitSeIs                   hSnem  1,40   6,700 19.560 21,000  9,00  60.000 161 1,000 2.237 2.414 1.035 6,097 175 1,109 2,564 2,606 1.235  7,020)  5.0  7019               10.0  30  m1 010   562 247 1,084 tOE US tE5S  1,665 741 4.7S2 35 ZW   Sig 062 247 1,064
C. &aavhilsso edCs Weks (5%) id               bodrs  1 .49   6,700 19,6000 21,000  9,000 00,000   0    02   110   125    03   306  1 0    60   177   204    95    555   0.0  19.4            16.0   21 4  35    41  1I9   III   0  56   141   163  76   444   .                             
TowMoesoheCeotb                                                                                      306 1,256 2,020 2,536 1.088 7,721 3.44 1,460 2,946 3.011 1,329  0,063                            69 290 000   002 266 1,617 240 638 1,941 1,048 617 5,083 25 2m  519 562 247 tsM
U. Reautett Cost
ProjedCowr*aUsnMwmj                             wY                        I       1      1      0   A      8      6     0     9    42  IC0    1 1    1 3    1 4    Is    64   0.0   0.0        0.0  I10  11 12    14  1 6    64      -                           -- - - - -
T*dm" SalblAwederwa th                          OWMP       2      3       2      2       2     15322    322 3 23 232110 25                     30    314   28    43  1 68U 0.0   0.0          0.0 2530 34    364 1   16...8                                                               
TsdotMSlmNAw*seiwinlssas                                  1 2     1 2    12     1 2     1 2    60063    62  63    63           3 315073    85    97 107116O    480 0.0   0.6                  0.0 73   697  107116a4800-- -                                                          
Tedwoow   bI-AmelsratDwmt,e Ha4S-t)             pq         6      6       6      6       6     30 16    16    IS6   I6    16    79 16         21    24    27    30    120 0.0  0.0            0.01I621 24    27230   120.. . . . .
CUssA*udmk     dsslrime                                                                             31    21    31   321    21107 38          43    49654    55    242 5.0   8.7              18.028 43248         4 58242.. . . . .
OFerdos:An"aiadettk&tffo                      WAWai                                                101   lot   161   101   161   607 III   114   Il8   122   126   5Wi   9.0  7418            168.0 IIIM114  1    132 120   591
U*Wsaaby Fetwar  sin Rita. ls                 hidwer           1400 10.100 30,000 01,000 02,000    .   I16   118   346   56  21,00  .7  16   138   416   731  1.301   0.0  74.6               10.0    -   324    75 12    234                                          Is Ill 341  S"  1.6
TOWa RsewasoeCeet                                                                                    242   258   388   088   832724               4   470   776 LIM2  2,667                          274 300 350   437 5251,6090                                          15 III 341 506 I,68
TOWa                                                                                                  548 1.017 2,688113,130 1.917 0.996 610 1,774 3,418 ~3,708 2.450 1I2.00                          343 00649 1.036 707 3.717 240  38 1,641 1,84  817 0.083 35 227f 630 603 81452,650
Is hspleemtetAgneaw: AwAeisaise tk*i (and Aaseuslss hOots) ef MCA&
lb Gasp s.d eo~Wbd si    (efodi  e,fl                 e     e  0. SiU   M           i .0M   i*doso   Lte g,e GO   i.ph 16:Rosoit oMdstBeW                                     amsh VAfaaeaa
Is Ceriamam In ceased at 40% alOn use In 8. ta  yew  istAig de*s. wad WA% li  yaw  she. VeB Srmitig aOt ; Proa,eeeat - NeesCoarpsSbe DWttn (NCS).
%d hdpie   e.lisnotatdS6   toalae   c.U    taiSO%Acee    et-DesGite   iLe  lesWe
'A Fume  reamed coulibdos a Opeeds  bliasis   sbnhdbWAi  heed on - aslobde vwi  of 10% atof tuiten coas.



Estonia
Agriculture Project                                                                                           Parmmeters (In %)
Table 3. Land and Waler Associations [LWAsl /a                                                                Phy.                             Expenditures by Flnancies (USS '000)
Detailed Costs                                               Base Cost (US$SI1  including ContingencIes (USS 'Cont For.  Gross               GOE                          World Bank
199 199 99 S9 00 ota 199 199 199 199 200  ota Rate Exch. Tax Rate 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Totat
I. Investment Costs
A. Establishment of LWAs (GOE Budget funded)
Equipment, supplies and software for LWAs /b             53  53 53 53 53 265  58  59  60  62  63 302  5.0  79.9          18.0  58   59   60   62   63  302    -    -    -    -    -    -
Equipment for Amelioration Unit                          35   -  -  -  - 35  38   -   -   -   - 38  5.0 100.0             0.0               -    -    - --   38
Trainhg&Extension(GOE Budgetfunded)/c                     11  11 11 11 11  55  13  15  17  18  20  83  5.0  19.4          0.0  13   15   17   18   20   83                                   -
Subtotal Establishment of LWAs (GOE Budget funded)         99  64 64 64 64 355 109  74  77  80  83 422                            71   74   77   80   83  384   38    -    -    -             38
B. Tralning
Various Worxshops (Bureau Staff) /d                       10  10  -  -  - 21  12  14   -   -   - 27  5.0  19.4            0.0  12   14              -      27
Training d LWA Facilitators & Trainers le                21  21  -  -  - 42  25  28   -   -   - 53  5.0  19.4             0.0    -    -        --   25   28    -    -    -   53
Subtotal Training                                          31  31  -  -  - 63  37  43   -   -   -80                               12   14             -      27   25   28    -    -    -   53
C. Studies M
Social Assessment of Drainage Sites                      31  31  -  -  - 63  37  43   -   -   - 80  5.0  19 4             0.0    0   -0    -    -           0   37   43    -    -    -   80
Evaluation of LWA Development Program                      -  10  -  -  -  10   -  14   -   -   -  14  5.0  19.4          0.0    -   14        -        -  14-
Role Clarifcation of Amelioration Bureau                   -  16  -  -  -  16   - 21   -   -   - 21  5.0  19.4            0.0    -  21    -    -    - 21 
Subtotal Studies                                            31  57  -  -  - 89  37  78   -   -   - 115                             0   35    -    -    - 35   37   43    -    -    -   80
Total lnvestmentCosts                                        162 153 64 64 64 507 183 194  77  80  83 617                           83  123   77   80   83  446  100   71    -    -    -  171
II. Recurrent Costs
Administration (GOE Budget funded) /9                       33  33 33 33 33 165  39  46  51  56  62 2i4  5.0   9.7         18.0  39   46   51   56   62  254                                   -
Total RecurrentCosts                                          33  33 33 33 33 165  39  46  51  56  62 254                           39   46   51   56   62  254 
Total                                                        195 186  797 97 671 222 240 128 136 145 871                            122  169  128  136  145  701  100   71    -    -    -  171
la Implementing Agency: Amelioration Unit of MOA. It is expecte I that about 60 LWAs would be established in the project area.
\b GOE budget funded. Govemment one-time assistance, estimated at EEK 50,000 (1995 cost) per LWA
vc GOE budget funded Estimated at 10.000 EEK (1995 cost) per LWA, for 60 LWAs over 5 years.
\d GOE financed; and donor assistance may be used when available.
be GOE financed; donor assistance may be used when available.
V GOE financed; donor assistance may be used when availate.
19 Estimated at 30,000 EEK (1995 cost) per LWA, for 60 LW8  in 5 years, for meetings, communications, legal, documentation etc
4 3



Estonia
Agriculture Project                                                                                                          Parameters (in %)
Table 4 Drainage Research /a                                                                                                 Phy.             Expenditures by Financiers (USS 000)
Detailed Costs                                               Base Cost (USS '000)    Totals In( luding Contingencies (USS '000) Cont. For.   Gross           GOE
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total 19% 6 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total Rate Exch. Tax Rate 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment lb
Books                                                   1    -    -    -    -    I    1    -    -    -    -    1  5.0  79.9             18.0    1    -    -    -    -    1
LaboratoryEquipment                                     5    5    -    -    -   10    5    6         -    -    -   11  5.0  79.9        18.0    5    6      -    -    -   11
Computerandsoftware                                     5    2    -    -    -    7    5    2    -    -    -    8  5.0  79.9             18.0    5    2    -    -    -    8
Field Trial Instruments & Equipment                    20   12    -    -    -   32    2   13    -    -    -   35  5.0  79.9             18.0  22   13         -        -   35
Total Investment Costs                                     31   19    -    -    -   51    4   21         -    -    -   55                           34   21     -    -    -   55
II. Recurrent Costs
Operations (transport, field monitonng etc.)              8    8    8    8    8   41    9    9    9   10   10   47   5.0  74.8             18.0    9    9    9   10   10   47
Office Administration (ind. supplies)                     5    5    5    5    5   26    6    7    8    9   10   40   5.0   9.7             18.0    6    7    8    9   10   40
Technical Staff                                          16   16   16   16   16   79    8   21   24   27   30   120  0.0   0.0             0.0   18   21   24   27   30   120
Total Recurrent Costs                                      29   29   29   29   29   145    3   38   42   46   49   208                              33   38   42   46   49   208
Total                                                       60   48   29   29   29   196   (7   59   42   46   49   263                             67   59   42   46   49  263
la Funded by GOE; Implementing agency - Institute of Water Management (Estonian Agricultural University, Tar, I). Donor technical assistai ice when available may collaborate with national experts.
\b Govemment funded.
g g



Estoris
Agriculture Project                                                                                                                       Parameterm (In %)
Table 5. Land Use Management /a                                                                                                           Phy.                            Expenditures bY Financiera (USS '000)
Detailled Costs                                                              Base Cost US$ '000)   Totals Including Contingenclesa USS'000 Cont For.  Gnoss              GOE                          Worid ank
1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total Rate Exch. Tax Rate 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total 199e 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total
I. tnvestment Costa
A Studies: Strategy tor Wetlands Management 8b B1   61                                    -        122   68   71    -    -    -  139  5.0  79.4         00    0    0                      0   68   71    -           -  139
B. EnvAronmentalStucuesforFutureDrainagelnvestments/c                    31   31    -               63   37   43             -      80  50  19.4        0.0    0   .0                     0   37   43                    80
C. EnvironmentalLaboratory EqUipmentId                                  505    -    -    -    -  505  546                    -    546  50 1000          00     -    -                     - 546                      -  546
D. Studies Envuronmental Screening ol Farmland Drainage Sies /e          26   26   26          -   78   31   35   40    -    -  106  50  194            00  -31   35   40    -    -  106
Total Investment Costs                                                    623  118   26           -768  682  149   40                871                         0    0    -    -    -    0  682  149   40                871
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Mobile Laboratory Operabons (GOE budget funded) if                     5   25   25   25   25  106    6   29   30   30   32  126  5 0  74.8          180    6   29   30   30   32  126
Total Recurrent Costa                                                       5   25   25   25   25  106    6   29   30   30   32  126                             6   29   30   30   32  126
Total                                                                     628  144   51   25   25  874  688  178   69   30   32  996                             6   29   30   30   32  126 682  149   40    -    -871
ta tmplemented by agencies in the Ministry of Environment
vb Woild Barnk inancinng 100% for Consulbtng services to undertake te study Implemenbng agency DepL ot Nature Conservation (MOE).
vc Implemenbng agency: Water Department (MOE) Vold Bank finaning at 100% for consulting services to undertake tbe study.
vt One urit f at httly eqiappod mobile laboratory, appropriate for tesbtng water and contaminaton etc. Wod Bank financin,g at 100%.
\e Implementing agency: EIA and Water Departments of MOE. World BSank finacing at 100% for consulting services lo undertake the screening.
v' Expenses for maenancei, rpairs, operang costs. materials and supplies.
'Po



Esthit
A7-k  -c*
Table6. Agniauraal Advisory Services /s                                                                                                                          ExpendIures by FInanciers 4US$ 000)
Detaialed Costs                                                   Baae Cost 4US$ 100        Totals incudIng Contlngenctes (US$000)             0 )!                             Donor                          Warld Sank
1996 1997 1991 1999 2000 Total 1IM   1997 1998 199  2000D Total 199M  1997 1538 1999 2000 Total 1It6 1997 19961 199  2000 Total 19961997 19m  1999 200   oa
L. lnwesfbneut Costs
A. Advisory ServIces
1. Prnvate Advisory Series ovepm wntFund  ft              500   700  70D  700  700 3,300  500  700  700  700  700 3,300  100  140  1 0  140  140  6000--400  560  580  560  560 2,640
2. PublIc Extension Service kuprovenien
MIsCeNwOus EqitprI1UIIk                                   1516s        -              3016  17            -              33  1617T          -             33
Extension Matenals /d                                    40    40   40  4040 202    44    45   4647  4823044  4546  47    48 230
Demonstrlbon Materialsf-t                                30    30    30   30   30   152   33    33   34   35   36   170  ----33   33   34   35   36  170
Putic Rdaons Produdcorn fl                               21   21    21       -    -   63   25    28   32        -    -   85  ----25   28   32                                                                        -    - 85
Extension Tools (Software Packages) ig10    10    10   10   10   51    1 1    1 1    1 1   1 2   1 2    57   1 i   1 1   1 1   12   1 2    57
SWafTraining lh                                           5      5     -    -    -   10    6        7     -    -    -   1 3    6    7       -    -    -   1 3
FannwrTraintng l                                         42    42    42   42   42  208   49    57   63   69   76  314   49   57   83   69   76  314
Training inPRA Techniques'fl                             51    51      -    -    -  102    56   59        -    -    -  118                                                                         56   59     -              Il-an
Subtotal Public Extesiaon ServicesImprovement             215  215   143  123  123  818  241  258   186  163  171 1,019  127  137  121  128  136  648-                   --114  121   88   35   36  371
3. Rural infonhistlon Centers
Miscafianecus OfflcEquipenwt k                             -   30    30      -    - 61        - 33   34         -    -   67      -  33   34       -    -   67
Studes:MatelalODevelopment ancOiDittibukon ..A           2 1    2 1   2 1   21   21   104   25    28    31   34   37   155    4    5    6    6    7   28-               --20   23   26   28   30   127
Trairnrng (ntscelasneous) /m                               -    5      5    -    -   10       -    7      8     -    -   1 5     -    7    8      -    -   1 5
SubtotalfRurallInformatlon Centers                          21    56   56   21   21   175   25   68    73   34   37  237    4   45   47    6    7  110-                   --20   23   26   28   30   127'
4. Task Force
VehKies In                                               45      -     - -    -        45   47      -     -     -    -   47   47      -     - -    -        47
Miscelaneow  Equipmert/a                                 15      -     -    -    - 15   16          -                - 1    18         -          -         16
Tranirng of Tase,Force members /p                         10   10   10       -    - 31    12   14   16          -    - 42   12   14   16          -    - 42
Studies: S141l Gap Analysis..Iq                            -  -       52     -    -   52         -  -     9      79     -    - 79--                           ---79                                                  -    - 79
Techrucal Assistance (Various)-EU Phare Jr              4.58     -     -     --       458  484      -     -              4-4_ -              484484                                                            - 
SubtotaltTask Force                                       529    10   63       -       602 559    14   95         -       668  7614  16             -    - 106 484    -                      484      -        79      -    - 79
TotalInvestment Costs                                       1,265  981  962  843  843 4,895 1,325 1,040 1,054  897  909 5,225  307  336  3. 1 274  283 1,524  484             -    -    -     -484  534  704  73    2    2   ,17
11. Recurrent Costa
A. Advisory ServIces
1. Incremnental Operating Costa
Pubic Extension Servce                                   30    30    30  3030  152    33    34    35  3738  17733  34  353738  177
RuratlnlrorMialon Centers                                 10   10   10   10   10   51    1 1    1 1    12   1 2   13   59   1 1   1 1   1 2   12   1 3    59
lask Force/Is                                             8     a      8    8    8   41       9    9      9   10   10   47    9    9    9   10   10   47 
Total Recurrent Costs                                           49    49    49   49   49  243    53   55    57   59   60  284   53   55   57   59   80  284-                                                                           -
Total                                                         1,313 1.030 1,011  892  892 5.138 1,378 1.095 1,111  956  969 5,509  360  391  381  333  343 108  484            -     -         -  484  534  704  730  6923  6263 3217
%s Inrvestment line items shiown as tunGded by the Goverrnwt may instead be provided by donocr(s) when avaaiabl during impleientaion.
lb World Banik Financing 80%. GOE asssts fanners by paying 90% of the individual contract values (private advisory services) for the first 3 years, 60% in year 4. and 70% in year 3. up to a limit or EEK< 2000ifarmer4year (1996).
Ic Funded by GOE. Eqiprnen for data gadwtheig analysis. presentation & mnu)itoring (suchl as computers, calculators, slide & overhead projectoms etc.)
%d Funded by GOE. Materials Indude birodirxes, mianuals, video production etc.
tIs WVorl Banik financinig. National and Intenational shopping (as applicable) for smlatllniscellanaous toots and equipment.
V WorddBank financing at 100%. Proaurement of consulting services.
Ig Funded by GOE, indutirg fann management software packages.
th Funded by GOE. Tainnin in participatory assessment andi conyxunicaton.
Id Funded by GOE. Trainin in produolion techiqAss. busine sskatlls (costs inidude rent of facilities for field days and workshops)
yWorld Banik funxkg at 100% for consultng services to delive trairrng on Participatory Rural Appraisal tacdlnques.
1k G0E boKded.
9J World Baik financing at 1OD% for onsutinbrg servces.
Ini Funded by GOE
%n Funded by GOE.
In Funded by GOE. 3 note book computer, color prniner, overhead "cl:or, mid office equipment.
IpPFunded byCOGE.
'a) World Bare financting 100%; procuernwn of wnaiitng servics (6 p-weeks foreign eNd 2 p-rnontfia fcal) to udrKteke fth sbidy.
V Funded by EU Phare: Long-temn. (14 nvn extension general): tit'ang & mnsnwtcatOn (3mim): Agribusines Plarnning (2mm); end Agribusinss Mnagmesnwt (3mmn).
I ncludIng travel and eornmodation cosats of 50 parson-dya per yeaw.



Extonie
AErle Prqe                                                                                                                       Parameters (n %)
Tabh 7. Food Qualty Control and Votanry Laboatory                                                                                Phy.                            Expardiburs by Financiers (US$ 000
Detabild Costs                                                      Base Cost (US$ 1100     Tota l$  luding Contingna (USS t00) ConL For.  Gross                GOE                          World Bank
1M  19S7 1S916 1019 2000 ToW  101 M       1008 1M  I     2000 ToLl Rate Exch. Tax Rate 1016 1007 1SSS 1M  2000 TotWl 1S06 1097 1"0  11m  200 Total
L Lhwmtmat Cosb
A. Food Ously & Vetway Laboatoay Development
1.T          in193    -    -                                                         -  193  214    -    -    -    -  214  5.0  79.4         0.0                                  214                        214
2. FoodOm*t&Vu nyCora            Etn1h                      1,10    -    -           -010    1,093    -         -    - 1,093  5.0 100.0      0.0                                                            1, 1t093
Tota lwhsvlma Costs                                             t0            -          - 1, 1,3 307                               -    -    - 307                                  1,307                      1,307
IL Rcurrena Coasb
A. Food  ut uay & V* tay  Facels
TSchrSi SW                                                    42   42   42   42   42  210   49   57 65   72   79  320  0.0   0.0             0.0  49   57   65   72   79  320
Op@aIonsu d Muimabr                                           51   51   51   51   51  253   55   57   59   81   63  296  5.0  74 8          18.0  55   57   59   61   63  296
Aiwation                                                      10   10   10   10   10   52   13   14   16  18   20   81   0    9.7           18.0  13   14   16   18   20   81
Total RACM     Comb                                              103  103  103  103  103  518  116  129  140  150  161  697                           116  129  140  150  161  697 
TOdW                                                            1,307  103  103  103  103 1,719 1,423  129  140  180  161 2.004                       116  129  140  150  181  697 1.307    -    -    -         1.307
ta Vbd lI n Fhhitg at 100%. Frnxumt  d        e n io s. boa~tr kn*i pdag.
b Vbnd Ben kl ngx   a 100% D m.xPMM A M edon kltelon. J C_omtpuBe       g(CB)
00



Estonba
AgrkbKjle Protect                                                                                                    Pa ametes (in %)
Table 8. ProJed Implementation Unit                                                                                   Phy.            Expenditures by Financlers (US$ 000)
Detaled Costs                                          Base Cost (USS '000J    Totals including Contngenche (USS '000) ConL For.  Gross              GOE
1996 1997 1993 1999 2000 Total 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total Rats Exch. Tax Rat 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Total
1. Investnst Costs
A. Pmnssional Services
Procuemsnt la                                    61   61   61      -    -  183   64   68   71       -    -204  0.0  79.4          0.0  64   68   71    -    -  204
ProJc Mwngemen lb                                25           -    -    -   25   27    -    *            -   27  0.0  79.4        0.0  27    -                -   27
Accwuntingic                                     31   31      -         -   61   32   34    -    -    -   66  0.0  79.4           0.0  .32   34    -    -    -   B6
AudiilgofPrrJjeAccounts/d                        25   25   25   25   25  127   27   28   30   31   32  148  0.0  79.4             0.0  27   28   30   31   32  148
Proped Manager of PIU                            16   16   16   16   '6   79   18   21   24   27   30  120  0.0   0.0             0.0  18   21   24   27   30  120
Prcurmnt Spedaist PIU                            13   13   13   13   i3   63   15   17   19   21   24   96  0.0   0.0             0.0  15   17   19   21   24    96
AccountantPIU                                    11   11   11   11   11   53   12   14   16   18   20   80  0.0   0.0             0.0  12   14   16   18   20   80
Monitonng& Evaluation Specialisti IU             11   11   11   11   11   53   12   14   16   18   20   80  0.0   0.0             0.0  12   14   16   18   20   80
AdministrativeAssistant                           6    6    6    6    6   32    7    9   10   11   12   48  0.0   0.0             0.0    7    9   10 11   12   48
BHingualSecretary                                 6    6    6    6    6   32    7    9   10   11   12   48  0.0   0.0             0.0    7    9   10 11   12   48
Subtotal Profssional Services                     204  179  148   87   87  707  222  214  196  137  149  917                             222  214  196  137  149  917
B. Office Equlpment /e                             51    -    -    -    -   51   55    -    -    -    -   55  5.0 100.0             0.0  55    -    -    -    -   55
C. Vehicle: 1 Minivan /f                           20    -    -    -    -   20   22    -    -    -    -   22  5.0 100.0             0.0  22    -    -    -    -   22
Totl lnveslmnt Costs                                 275  179  148   87   87  777  299  214  196  137  149  994                            299  214  196  137  149  994
11. Recurrent Costs
Administration                                      21   21   21   21   21  105   25   29   33   36   39  161  5.0   9.7           18.0  25   29   33   36   39  161
operations                                          15   15   15   15   15   76   17   17   18   18   19   89  5.0  74.8           18.0  17   17   18   18   19   89
TotblRcumntCosts                                      36 3 36   3 3         6  181   42   46   50   54   58  250                            42   46   50   54   58  250
Total                                                311  215  185  124  124  958  340  260  246  191  207 1,244                           340  260  246  191  207 1,244
\a World Bank financing at 100% for cons ifling sery es for up to 15 person-months over 3 years.
vb World Bank financing at 100%.
vc Wodd Bank financWig at 100% for cons ilting services.
W GOE finning at 100%; to meet audit i equirements of the project.
%e Wod Bank fkancing at 100%. iintemational and national shopping.
V GOE fancinw at 100%.
II
Ay 
Not



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 7
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
SU1MMARY OF MAJOR PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
I



I



ANNIEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Consolidated Procurement Plan for aUl Equipment (ICB) Packages and all Consultant Services Contracts
estimated above US$100,000
Category              Component                   Package Description              Estimated
Amount
Equipment         Land Use Management         Environmental Laboratory Equipment            $540,000
Food Quality & Veterinary    Laboratory Equipment                      $1,100,000
Laboratory
Consultant        Farm Drainage               Drainage Design Studies                       $610,000
Services (Design,   Rehabilitation
Studies &                                     Drainage Supervision: Phase 2                 $150,0
Professional
Services)                                     Drainage Supervision: Phase 3                 $230,000
Drainage Supervision: Phase 4                $140,000
Land Use Management        Strategy for wetlands management              $140,000
study
Environmental screening for drainage         $110,000
sites
Project Implementation     Procurement                                   $204,000
Auditing of Project Accounts                 $148,000
Project Manager of PIU *                     $120,000
** to be divided into packages of approximately $50,000 each for the 12 regional amelioration bureaus
possible that EU (Phare) will finunce these assignments under their procurement arrangements






ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ANNEXES - VOLUME II
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLANS 1 - 4
January 18, 1996
*    Implementation Plan Summary
*    Supervision Schedule
*    Project Organization and Management Chart
*    PIP 1. Land Reform
*    PIP 2. Farm Drainage Rehabilitation and Land Use Management
*    PIP 3. Advisory Services
*    PIP 4. Food Quality Control






ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Implementation PFan Summary
Timebound Schedule for Key Events
Years
1996                1997                1998                1999                2000
A Land Reform
- State Land Disposal Study
- National Geodetic Network                                                  % 1i__
gwei point
- Cadastre Surveys                                          _                               r
properties in ha registered in codastre
- Institutional Strengthening                            .                  -
B   Farm Dranage Rehabtatlon
- Physical Rehabilitation of the Drainage System
- Design              _                            Ag_ _ 
-Construction                                 ~                                    A$~.
Arn in hecares of drainge aites (design phle stifted in 1995.
Development of Land and Water Associations                      M
Cumulative number of efblished LWAs
- Drainage Research                                         __                                       _                 .. _.. 



C Land Use lMangmwt
- Wetlands Management Strategy Study                _
- Environmental Monitoring of Drainage Rehab.
Number of sites to be screened (e.g. more than rehabilitated)
- Environmental Laboratory Equipment
- Environmental Study for future drainage invest.
D Advisory Services
- Private Advisory Services                                                                              ........... . _
contracts between farmers and extension agent
- Public.Extension.Ssrvices..........................................................
- Extension Demonstration Material                                  _
E Food Oualty Control
- Laboratory Equipment
- Training on Equipment



Supervision Schedule for Estonia Agriculture Project
Year                  Mission                Specialist                    Staffweeks
FY96                  Project Launch         * Procurement                      1
* Disbursement/Accounting         1
* Management                      2
* Task Manager                    1
Total - 5
FY97                  Supervision            * Extension                        4
(two missions)        * Social Assessment                3
* Food Quality                    2
* Drainage                        4
* Environment                     2
* Task Manager                    3
* Procurement                     2
Total - 20
FY98                  Supervision and        * Extension                        4
mid-term review       * Drainage                         5
* Food Quality                    2
* Environment                     1
* Task Manager                    6
Total - 18
FY99                  Supervision            * Extension                       4
(two missions)        * Drainage                         5
* Food Quality                    2
* Environment                     1
* Task Manager                    6
Total - 18
FY2000                Supervision            * Extension                        4
(two missions)        * Drainage                         5
* Food Quality                    2
* Environment                     1
* Task Manager                    6
Total - 18



ESTONIA
Agriculture Project
Project Organization & Management
hIPw-MInlIaI\
Projecl Sewing Conmmb
Join Projed Dirodeor
Projed knpl m allon  ndt
Forein Rebd" epsO artmei                  E U Phar-
Minlsary of Environmertl   |                                           of AWicuro e
Esloriis nb tiormd               Water Department                      AmeNoradon Unit            Agricultwr Advisory Services
Lend Board               Depe.tmeriedarPraet                      U ........ Ue CeUPtojed Ca r m        Task Force
Task Force Head
Nalue Conservation Departnmrt      Insilitte of                             Veterinary Board
County Land Boards                                          Waler Managemert                             Food Policy Board
A__ ___ur___ _Ny_   I                         Food  Board
Environment Impact
Assessment                       AmPleratlon BLwreaLa
National Level          .... ...-'Cowtry level
Ernvironment
Impact
Assessment                          Land and Water
County Level                     Usors Association



Estonia Agriculture Project
Project Implementation Plan
Land Reform Component
I. The Project
A. Component Objectives
1.    The broad objective of the land reform component of the project is to assist Estonia in
the development of the land market, which would facilitate: (a) the land reform (restitution and
privatization of the land); (b) the use of land as collateral to obtain long tern credit, and
subsequent farm restructuring; and (c) exit and entry into farming. The establishment of such a
market requires developing the legal framework, as well as the technical and institutional capacity.
The immediate and main objective of the project component is to speed up land survey and land
registration in the land cadastre.
B. Component Scope
2.     Land Reform. The total area of agricultural and forest lands to be eventually privatized
is estimated at 2.3 million hectares (including natural grasslands, arable land, orchards and
forests). The reform of land ownership, farm organization and property rights is a central element
of Estonia's economic reform. The actual process of formal transfer of ownership to the newly
established private farms has been slower than desirable. Despite the importance attached by GOE
to land reform and privatization, only 13% of this area has been divested to private control to date
(including restituted land and land under the Farn Law Act of 1989). The slow progress of land
reform can be attributed variously to the difficulties in the development of the legal frmework,
insufficient institutional arrangements, and limited financial resources to complete the land
surveys. The approach chosen for the land reform - physical restitution based on pre-1940
boundaries - seems to be the most significant factor in slowing down land privatization, and
creating uncertainties as to the rights of the farmers. Even if restitution were proceed faster, it
is unclear that it would improve land use and expedite the development of an active land market.
Many land owners have chosen alternative lands or non-land compensation in place of accepting
their "ancestral lands." Consequently, a significant amount of the arable and forest lands remains
under state ownership after the end of the first stage of land reform.
3.     Up to December 1995, 23,529 units (approx. 223,000 ha) have been registered in the
cadastre and 11,000 parcels (approx. 180,000 ha) in the title book. Estimated registration in 1995
was 15,000 units (approx. 130,000 ha). The National Land Board (NLB) plans to register over
1,500 cadastral units (13,000 ha) per month in 1996.
4.     The implementation of land reform in Estonia requires well-defined prerequisites and
priorities, as well as better sequencing of reform elements, so that a well-functioning land market
can emerge. The most important part of the land reform is to continue, and finalize the restitution
of the properties. An important task for GOE is to work out a state land disposal policy for state-
owned lands in rural areas. The project also aims to accelerate the reform process on areas where
it has been slow.



PIP I
Page 2 of 9
5.     SimRlifving cadastral and title book registration. Titling is not an end in itself, but a
means to achieve security of tenure, and to provide information to facilitate land transactions
through an accurate and up-to-date registration system. Estonia adopted a land registration system
that is close to the German Real Property System and requires registration based on exact land
survey. The titling procedure was already simplified by the "Law of Amending the Legal Acts
Relating to the Implementation Law of Real Property Law", (August 12, 1994). However, the
Title Book Offices still need three months to register the title, which prolongs the procedure.
6.     The Government is working on simplifying regulations and devising appropriate measures
to limit the cost and time spent per unit restituted or privatized. The Governmental Decree "The
order for restitution of the properties on the base of existing maps" was passed in early 1995. This
order allows restitution of lands to the previous owners without completing an exact land survey.
The property borders would be registered based on existing maps prepared during the Soviet era.
However, only 20% of all properties could be registered this way. Another option being explored
would include the issuance of a "provisional" title with regard to the estimated boundaries.
Boundaries would only be demarcated in the field and simply indicated to owners. Boundaries
would also be registered on the cadastral maps. Further clarification of boundaries can be done
later, if deemed necessary by appropriate parties, prior to market transactions (buyers, sellers,
banks, etc.). Despite the above options, experience in East Gernany shows that transitional
measures cannot fully compensate for exact surveys, and that there is no alternative to carrying
out land surveys. Regardless of the legal framework, owners need to know what precisely they
own, and where their borders are, especially when it comes to land transactions and cultivation.
7.     Physical restitution versus voucher compensation. The vouchers will be replaced with
special privatization banking accounts. It is possible to use the privatization bank accounts to pay
for privatized lands and other properties. The compensation for lands and other properties is
deposited in a privatization bank account, and can be used for privatization of apartments, lands,
shares of companies, etc. In some rural areas, it seems likely that owners would more readily
accept compensation than restitution. In Tallinn, for instance, almost every property will be
restituted, but many owners opt for compensation for their agricultural lands in rural areas.
However the compensation value for rural lands is small. Owners are not willing to opt for
compensation immediately, and are postponing their decisions, although every owner was
supposed to have decided by April 1995 whether to opt for restitution or compensation. The new
Govermment has decided to compensate only the lands that could not be restituted.
8.     Reorganization of Est-survey. In a market economy, there is little need for parcel
surveying to be carried out by a public agency. To expedite parcel surveys, Est-survey, the state-
owned land survey company, which has already lost more than half of it's surveyors to the private
sector, needs to be privatized. Reorganization of the National Land Board (NLB) has started by
re-integrating the Department of the Cadastre of Est-survey into NLB. The cadastral Center of
NLB was established. The County Land Cadastre Offices have been established in ten of the
counties and the rest (five) will be established before the end of May, 1996. A special Decree
passed by the Government (Decree 9, January, 1995) regulates the re-organization of the National
Land Board. The Decree specifies that:
(a) The NLB would be an effective organization responsible for Land Cadastre,
Geodesy and Mapping;



PIP I
Page 3 of 9
(b) The activities of NLB would be coordinated with other involved institutions; and
(c) The NLB should not compete with the private sector on an equal basis for
specific land survey activities.
9. The Governmental Decree further stipulates that:
(a) The Department of the Cadastre of Est-survey, the Department of Informatics,
and the Archive shall be re-integrated into NLB.
(b) The Mapping Center shall be re-integrated into the NLB.
(c) The County Est-Survey Offices will be privatized or terninated.
10    Privatization of the county land survey offices was planned for the beginning of 1996.
NLB hopes that the tender for privatizing the first five County Offices of Est-survey can be
published by May, 1996 and that the bidding process can take place before June, 1996.
11.   Role of private sector At the present moment, there are 125 licensed private surveying
companies, and 48 individual surveyors in Estonia that are involved in land surveying, which is
a necessary part of the process of restitution, replacement, selling and purchase of land, as well
as of the contractual use of land. In addition, 138 licenses for geodetic and cartographic work
have been given out. A study has shown that approximately 95% of the companies are now
actively operating. There are still an additional 39 private companies and surveyors that have
applied for a license. In the near future, a new status of surveyor will be given out to some of
the license owners. In addition to the surveying work, the owner of the new license could also
perform juridical operations regarding cadastre works. According to estimations, the above-
mentioned companies would continue the work in the future, but their activities would be
supervised and they would be provided with up-to-date geodetic network information and existing
map information in order to guarantee a coordinated functioning of the whole cadastral system.
This task would be performed by the NLB.
12.    Prioritization and sequencing of survey works and cadastre registration. Even after all the
above measures are taken, the costs of titling, and the time it takes, are likely to be substantial.
Systematic titling should be sequenced and prioritized. The following criteria to prioritize the
survey work location, in order of importance are:
(a) Drainage rehabilitation sites: The project supports the rehabilitation of drainage
systems and these lands should be surveyed as a first priority. A large number of the
properties surveyed under this project can be selected on the basis of drainage rehabilitation
areas.
(b) Regional Policy Sites: These are areas where land reform has been slow in the
past and where demand for restitution is limited, but develop of local infrastructure and
farming is important.



PIP 1
Page 4 of 9
(c) Higher potential market value: These are areas with desirable land use/quality
attributes, or location attributes, such as better soil quality, better access to the urban
markets, etc.
(d) Lower potential cost for adjudication: These are areas where potential owners are
easily identifiable and whose claims are least likely to be contested by others in the process
of titling. Land covered by the present farming law, in which the private farmers have
perpetual use rights but no rights to sell or mortgage land, can fit into this criteria.
13. Adiustment in land confiauration and easements: The restructuring of large enterprise
farms offers the opportunity for adjusting the shapes and sizes of the subdivided parcels
within these farms. This is especially a problem where restituted owners have fragmented
pieces of land within a large farm, or where such pieces have no access to roads or
services.
ONGOING AND REQUESTED PROJECTS
14.   Under separate arrangements, donor-funded parallel projects provide technical assistance
and training for strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of the NLB and related
agencies.
(a) Land Registry Management Advice (96-98) will be carried out by SwedSurvey
and financed by Sweden as part of larger program which has been agreed in principle for
1996. Continuation of this sub-component is agreed with SwedSurvey for longer term.
(b) Land Assessment Methodology Development (95-96) has been agreed with the
Finnish Government and the project is running. The land assessment methodology so far
has been created in close cooperation with Finnish experts and the changes into the system
will be worked out together.
(c) Land and Real Estate Legal Advice (96-98) has been intensively investigated and
two possible donors have been identified: Sweden and Austria.
(d) Training of Surveyors (95-97) contains three different projects: Continuation of
LIMPE-project (EU-PHARE); the training for trainers in surveying; and later courses on
the equipment and software purchased in the LIMPE-project previous phase.
(e) Training of Cadastral Specialists (96-97). This Sub-Component is planned inside
the same PHARE-programn, and part of it will be covered by Sweden and Germany. It is
planned to introduce to the local cadastral specialists the goals of the modern cadastral
system and the different ways to achieve them.
(f) Support for development and implementation of the cadastral system in county
offices and central cadastral office. The main elements for the county (decentralized)
system are the interface to IPIS (alphanumeric cadastre) and data exchange between



PIP I
Page 5 of 9
counties, the central system and surveyors. The main elements for the central system are:
design of dataflow (basic map, cadastral map, ground control points); interface to other
registers; data exchange; and service for the public and private sector.
(g) Mapping and cartography. Project plans cover the period from 1995 to 1999. The
main activities are aerial photography, production of digital line maps, and orthophotos
corresponding to the national map-production plans. Total budget is approximately
8,000,000 SEK. Financed by Sweden.
(h) Photogrammetric and surveying equipment. This request includes 5 analytical
Photogrammetric instruments, digitizers, plotters and printers, workstations for map editing,
server, etc. to be delivered in 1996 and 1997. Total budget is approximately CHF
2.500.000. Financed by Switzerland.
D. Component Description
15.   The land reform component provides financing for land survey works, and for creating
and densifying the National Geodetic Network.
16.   The National Geodetic Network (NGN) will need reconstruction, and until the work on
re-measurement of the NGN is finalized, the kinematic GPS receivers can be used for
establishment of lower order networks, to coordinate the boundaries in one unified coordinate
system. This work will allow the definition of the boundaries to the cadastral map to be of higher
accuracy and will enable the surveying of the boundaries of large territories quickly and with high
accuracy. The program is planned for four years, because in 1999, the measurements on the NGN
will be completed or the network would be in the position that the majority of boundaries can be
tied to the NGN. Within four years, 3,000 points will be measured, with the points measured
using GPS technology available for future measurements. The estimated price for measurement
of one point is US$470, and the total price of the component is US$1,410,000 (60% with World
Bank financing for US$846,000). The most important idea of the component is not to re-
coordinate the boundaries, but to get exact information in one unified system. All the work will
be contracted out through local competitive bidding.
17.   Cadastral Survey. The lack of adequate budgetary allocations, as well as fixed-price
contracts to private surveyors (at one half of the market price), has contributed to a considerable
slow down of restitution irelated to cadastral registration. Est-Survey, the state agency which had
traditionally carried out parcel surveying, has been losing it's surveyors to the private sector.
Indeed, there is no justification for parcel surveying still to be carried out by the public sector.
A major component of the project - US$5,260,000 (60% World Bank financing for US$3,154,000)
- therefore, is budgetary support for procuring parcel surveying using Local Competitive Bidding
procedures. The contracts should be prepared in a way that the survey area is divided into
attractive sized packages at the district level, with a cost amounting US$250,000 per contract.
The choice and sequencing of areas should follow criteria identified above. According to the
proposals and estimations in the frame of this project, approximately 7,800 rural properties (total
area approx. 151,000 ha will be surveyed at cost of approximately US$35/ha.



PIP I
Page 6 of 9
E. Financing Plan
18.   The total cost of the land survey component is US$6.7 million, of which US$4 million
will be financed by the World Bank.
Component Costs (US$)
GOE                        WB
NGN                       564,000                     846,000
Cadastral Surveys         2,106,000                  3,154,000
rOTAL                     2,670,000                  4,000,000
II. Implementation Armngements
A. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
19.   National Land Board. The NLB will be responsible for: development of cadastral
registration and cadastral mapping in Estonia; overseeing the decentralization of cadastral work
to the county level; speeding up and simplifying the surveying and registration process; and
ensuring coordination with the Title Book Offices. NLB will be will be responsible for
contracting out all the survey contracts (World Bank and budgetary financed survey works)
through national competitive bidding procedures, and to supervise the contracts. NLB would
appoint staff required for the coordination of the land reform component.
20    The Government of Estonia. The Ministry of Environment, and the Land Reform
Commission will coordinate the activities in connection with this component in order to improve
the legal/policy environment of the land reform process. According to the Land Reform Law the
Government of Estonia and local municipalities are responsible for implementation of land reform.
The Land Reform Commission is mandated to coordinate land policy for GOE and legislators. The
Commission consists of representatives of the Ministries of Justice, Agriculture, and Environment,
The National Land Board, and members of Parliament and Local Authorities.
21.   The Contract Administration Unit (CAU) will be established in NLB to organize and
supervise of the land survey works. The CAU would consist of a project coordinator and 4-5 staff
to recruit surveyors through a competitive process. The CAU will organize this competitive
bidding and perform relevant accounting functions. The project coordinator of the CAU would
coordinate with the local municipalities, the relevant ministries, and other authorities to be
involved. Survey contracts will be prepared together with the local municipalities which would
decide where to carry out the surveys. The areas will be selected according to defined priorities.



PIP I
Page 7 of 9
B. Implementation Agreement
22.   NLB would establish the Contract Administration Unit and appoint staff required for
coordination of the land reform project component.
C. Role of World Bank During Supervision
23.   The component will be supervised by the Bank personnel (or designated consultants) in
accordance with the proposed supervision plan.
III. Implementation Plan
A. Time Bound Schedule
24.   As survey works are involved in the project component, the implementing agency would
start with procurement preparation prior to the start of the project. Area selection, according to
priorities, can be done in parallel with the preparation of bidding documents.
25.   The GPS measurements would be started in October 1996 and finished in December 1999,
and approximately 3,000 points will be measured. The Cadastral Surveys would start in October
1996 and be finished in December 1999. Preparation of bidding documents can start after
negotiations with the Bank, and bidding can take place from July-September 1996.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
26.   For all items funded through the loan proceeds, The Borrower agrees that: (a) it would
apply procurement procedures which are consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995 ).
Table I summarizes the major procurement packages of this component and their schedules.
Procurement for Bank-financed activities would be undertaken as described below:
27.   Technical Services (US$ 6.7 million). Technical Services:  This would consist of
surveying contracts in individual packages at an individual cost of US $250,000, each hired
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, following a pre-
qualification. Standardized bidding documents and pre-qualification criteria would be developed
following Bank procurement guidelines. Preference for local private surveyors is justified
considering the following reasons: (a) parcel surveying at the local level is labor intensive,
requiring knowledge of the area, local real estate and cadastre laws, local regulations and mobility;
(b) parcel surveying by local firms will build local capacity in the private sector, and help build
the foundation for competitive real estate brokerage services in the future; and (c) a large number
of local companies are available to carry out these works.



PI-P I
Page 8 of 9
IV. Monitorin. and Evaluation
A. Actions to Monitor Development Objectives
28.   Project monitoring indicators will be used to track progress on the land reform component
throughout the Project cycle. These indicators will produce the necessary information for the mid-
term review.
29.   Annual targets, stated in terms of the project indicators, will be set by the PIU, reported
to the Bank at the beginning of each year, and utilized to monitor progress.
B. Project Indicators
30.   The following indicators are used to monitor and evaluate progress during the
implementation of the land reform component of the Project:
a.    Institutional Indicators
i.  Privatization or termination of the Est-survey surveying authorities
(County Land Survey Bureaus).
ii. Establishment of new organization of the NLB, and complete
decentralization of 15 cadastre offices.
b.    Legal Reform Indicators
i.    Simplifying of the land reform procedures and titling.
ii. Regulations concerning Land Disposal Policy for rural and urban areas.
c.    Omerational Indicators
i. Minimum 1,900 properties surveyed per year needs to be contracted out
under this project by Local Competitive Bidding.
ii.    Number of properties registered in the cadastre and title book.



PIP I
Page 9 of 9
Table 1
Land Reform Component
Summary of Major Procurement Packages and Schedules
Est.  Preparation   Tender    Bid          Contrac  Contract
Cost   of bidding    Docs.   Submitte     t     Completi
US$      Docs.      Issued      d      Signed  on mth/yr
M     Month/year   mth/yr             mth/yr
NGN Surveys   0.564  Mar-Apr 96  July 96   Sept 96   Oct 96   Jan 98
phase 1
NGN Surveys   0.846   Jan-Feb 97   Apr 97   June 98   Aug 97   Dec 99
phase 2
Cadastral    1T70   Mar-Apr 96  J         Sept 96    ct 9       an 9
Surveys
phaser1      1.795  Oct- Nov 96  Jan 97   Mar 97   Apr 97   Aug 98
Surveys
phase 2
Cadastral    1.795  Feb-Mar 98  May 98  July- 98   Aug 98   Dee 399
Surveys
phase 3
Ttal       6. 7       _






PIP 2
Page 1 of 18
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
DRAINAGE REHABILITATION AND LAND MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
I. The Component
A. Objectives
1.    The objective of the component is to assist in the restructuring and revitalization of Estonian
agriculture. In line with this objective, the drainage rehabilitation and maintenance component focuses
on action required to address critical needs resulting from neglect of drainage infrastructure during the
transition period, and, after a one time rehabilitation, aims at handing over future operations and
maintenance of the drainage system to the beneficiaries. Not all of the lands drained in the past should
be rehabilitated due to both environmental and economic concerns. Hence, the project will focus on:
(a)   limited physical rehabilitation and maintenance of drainage systems on lands with high
agricultural values and production potentials;
(b)    promotion and establishment of Land and Water Associations (LWAs) to take over
ownership, management and financial responsibility for all on-farm systems (once
rehabilitated) above the large main drains; and
(c)   reorientation of drainage research and training, emphasizing practical field application for
cost effective maintenance.
B. Component Description
2.    The drainage rehabilitation component will consist of: (a) physical works on 60,000 ha over five
years (less than 10% of drained farmland in Estonia), covering main drain rehabilitation and
maintenance, rehabilitation and maintenance of collector drains, flushing and repair of subsurface pipe
outlets entering collector drains, and selective tillage of compacted soils in the context of drainage
improvement; (b) establishment of about 60 LWAs within the project area as formation of farmer groups
to assume ownership of on-farm drainage systems and bear full responsibility for future operations and
maintenance of the systems once rehabilitated; and (c) development of an adaptive research progmm to
test innovative techniques for reducing and controlling maintenance costs. This project component also
includes related training and studies. The drainage systems targeted for rehabilitation would be selected
on the basis of social, technical, economic and environmental criteria.
3.    The land management component consists of studies of, and equipment for, environmentally
sensitive areas.
Physical Rehabilitation of the Drainage Systems
4.    The drainage systems in Estonia are extensive and critical to the future productivity of agricultural
systems. Natural conditions for agriculture are far from optimal, primarily due to the short growing season



PIP 2
Page 2 of 18
and the generally poor soil conditions. Although precipitation is fairly uniform between 570 and 720
mm/year, 65% of this rainfall occurs during a 5-month period from May to September with distinctive
and critical peaks during short periods. On areas where natural drainage is inadequate during peak
rainfalls, improved drainage through artificial means can extend the growing season for about a month
by ensuring that groundwater table can be maintained at least 40 cm below surface. Drainage regulates
moisture content and the depth of the groundwater table in the soils. Well drained lands can be planted
earlier and harvested later, as waterlogging during rainfall peaks can be avoided and fields are dry enough
for farm machinery to operate. In the context of the project, drainage rehabilitation will not be carried
out on polders where submerged lands are drained for agricultural purposes. Drainage improvement
will be primarily aimed at regulating the depth (below surface) of the groundwater table and moisture of
the soils during critical periods, and thereby lengthening the growing season and increasing crop and
pasture yields.
5.     Transitional adjustments of the economy have resulted in a lack of funding for the maintenance
of the drainage systems since 1988. Subsurface pipe systems will require selective flushing of lines to
remove sediments and improve their proper performance, but rehabilitation work is important for restoring
the capacity and depth of many open main and field drains. The cleaning of open drainage canals allows
the free flow of subsurface pipes, thus maintaining their flow capacity. This work has to be done
selectively, applying a set of criteria for prioritizing rehabilitation work and limiting the physical works
to lands where environmental damage will be minimal and agricultural productivity can be profitable and
sustainable. When maintenance is deferred too long up to a point, these drainage systems can no longer
be maintained or rehabilitated, and reconstruction would be prohibitive in costs and economically
questionable. Rehabilitation costs on lands targeted by the project are estimated to be about EEK 1,500/ha
in 1995 financial terms, a small fraction (7.5%) of the full reconstruction costs of about EEK 20,000/ha.
Selection Criteria for Drainage Rehabilitation Sites'
6.     Selection of Areas. Drainage rehabilitation works will be undertaken on a total 60,000 ha, less
than 10% of the existing agricultural lands that have already been drained. Drainage investments will be
limited to rehabilitation works and will not involve investments in new drainage schemes. Sites where
drainage rehabilitation would not be allowed include:
*    areas where fish and wildlife habitat is protected by Estonian environmental laws or rules;
a    poldered areas;
*    wetlands and estuaries with important wildlife or fishery values;
*    important native grasslands, buffer zones, and forest lands of special significance;
*    forest lands, until the forest strategy study is completed;
7.     Potential sites would be screened individually and thoroughly, following a selection process to
ensure that technical, economic, social and environmental criteria are fulfilled. Each of the following
selection criteria shall be fulfilled before commencement of the drainage rehabilitation works:
(a)    Environmental Screening. Each drainage site shall be screened and cleared for
The selection criteria have been specified in a supplemental letter to the loan agreement.



PIP2
Page 3 of 18
rehabilitation by the Ministry of Environment or the respective District Environment
Protection Department according to official regulations on the environmental screening
criteria. The environmental screening process of the drainage rehabilitation program is
elaborated in Annex 4: Environmental Aspects;
(b)    Soil Fertility. Each drainage rehabilitation site shall have an average soil fertility of no
less than 40 points out of a scale of 100 based on the Estonian Soils Classification
System. Soils with less than 40 points can only be included up to no more than 10% of
each site area only when this substandard area must be included because of hydraulic
design requirements. This condition aims for the best 25% of the drained farmlands, and
practically excludes 75% of the existing drained farmlands;
(c)    Land use intensity. More than 70% of the agricultural land shall currently be utilized for
agricultural purposes;
(d)    Conditions of the Drainage Systems. Each drainage site shall be assessed and approved
for rehabilitation by the local amelioration bureau based on technical and engineering
feasibility;
(e)    Development Costs. Rehabilitation costs of the drainage system, including civil works,
designs, and supervision, shall not exceed EEK 1,500/ha in constant 1995 prices. This
limit will exclude areas that require excessive and complex rehabilitation works;
(h)    Farmers' Participation. Farmers would have fonned LWAs in accordance with the Land
Amelioration Law. The LWAs would:
(i)    make an application for the rehabilitation works;
(ii)   jointly approve the program of works together with the Amelioration
Bureaux in the county;
(iii)   undertake maintenance of the system after it is rehabilitated, and ensure
that on-farm drainage systems are effectively maintained;
(iv)   contribute 20 per cent of the physical rehabilitation costs through cash or
labor prior to commencement of designs and civil works; and
(v)    meet the administrative and operational costs (such as expenses for
meetings and book keeping) of the Association.
(f)    Land Tenure. Before commencement of the drainage rehabilitation works, no more than
5% of the agricultural land in any specific drainage site to benefit from drainage
rehabilitation would remain state -owned or not leased to the private sector, with the
exception of educational establishments. All lease contracts for state-owned agricultural
land should be for a period of not less than 10 years. The extent to which land has been
privatized and/or restituted will be considered2. This includes lands actually used by
farmers, lands leased to farmers, and lands for which the owners opted for compensation.
Further, all state-owned agricultural lands in a specific drainage site would be available
2      Cadastral surveys of drainage sites would be prioritized by the Land Board, and all lands benefiting from drainage would
be registered in the cadastre prior to commencement of the drainage works at any specific site.



PIP 2
Page 4 of 18
for sale or lease prior to the beginning of the drainage rehabilitation works on that site.
The number of unresolved land disputes in each proposed site will also be used as a
criteria for selection or non-selection, and will be evaluated through the proposed social
assessments; and
8.    In addition to the selection criteria, the rehabilitation and maintenance of open drains will be
carried out using techniques to minimize environmental damages. These implementation criteria will
include the following:
*     limiting excavation to design cross-sectional lines when channel cleanouts are carried out;
having equipment work from one side of the channel wherever possible;
*     in view of-the need for sediment control, minimize damage to vegetation on channel side
slopes; and
*     install instream sediment traps where needed.
9.    Phasing of Development. Applying the physical criteria for area selection, the 12 Amelioration
Bureaux (ABs) throughout the country (under the coordination of the Amelioration Unit in the Ministry
of Agriculture) have preliminarily selected 42,000 ha of drainage sites located in 13 counties. To date,
no areas have been preselected in Walga and Hiiumaa counties. These potential areas of 42,000 ha have
been preselected primarily on the basis of their physical characteristics and potential, based on surveys
conducted by ABs in 1994 and early 1995. Further preselection continues in order to identify more areas
for inclusion into a pool of potential areas which will then go through a more rigorous selection process.
It is planned that design work for the 60,000 ha development program will take place over 4 years
covering: 3,500 ha in 1995; 16,500 ha in 1996; 25,000 ha in 1997 and the remaining 15,000 ha in 1998.
Physical rehabilitation works for each site will be undertaken over a period of two years once design is
completed. It is anticipated that 40% of the physical works will be done in the first year after design is
completed, and the remaining 60% completed in the second year. Initially physical works will concentrate
on main canals and collector drains, and subsequently on repairs of subsurface field drains. Design
planning, LWA development and strengthening and physical works will take place over a period of 3
years for each site. With this time framework, the aggregate plan for physical works will be spread over
a period of 5 years: commencing in the summer of 1996 with 1,400 ha; 8,700 ha in 1997; 19,900 ha in
1998; 21,000 ha in 1999 and the rest of 9,000 ha in year 2000.
10.   Pilot sites. In the preselection process, the Amelioration Unit (AU) of MOA has identified two
pilot sites for detailed assessment and environmental screening in 1995. These sites, namely Vigala (2,300
ha drained area) of Rapla county and Rannu (1,660 ha drained area) of Tartu county (should they meet
the full requirements of the project, including the social preparation and LWA development aspects) would
be thoroughly designed in 1995 using existing budget sources, followed by physical works in 1996 and
1997 under the project. It is anticipated that the total areas of these 2 pilot sites for rehabilitation would
not exceed 3,500 ha.
11.   Cost Recovery. The GOE plans to privatize the ownership, operations and maintenance of all
farm drainage systems by handing over these systems to established LWAs. The Amelioration Law of May
1994 requires the formation of LWAs to take over the systems. Under the same law, ABs can levy cost
recovery fees from users. LWA Membership is compulsory for every beneficiary of the specific drainage
basin. GOE has determined that each LWA must agree to contribute (in cash or in kind) 20% of the cost
of the one-round of selective rehabilitation works, while GOE pays for the rest of the upfront costs for



PIP 2
Page 5 of 18
upgrading the systems to conditions that can normally be maintained. In return, the GOE would no longer
be financially responsible for these on-farm drainage systems, and each LWA will have full ownership
of its area-specific drainage system and bear full costs of the O&M responsibility. GOE is therefore
effectively privatizing the drainage systems. However, the ABs will continue to be responsible for
operations and maintenance of rivers and main canals outside the drainage areas, as the main canals often
serve other users such as industries and municipalities. Cost recovery options for the maintenance of
rivers and main canals are being considered by the AU, including: (a) the possibility of transferring the
financial responsibility of this maintenance to the respective municipalities which can then recover these
costs from beneficiaries through local municipal taxes, and; (b) direct levies to LWAs, and other users.
Development of Land and Water Associations
12.   The Government through the Amelioration Law of 1994 intends to privatize the ownership of
existing drainage systems and transfer the responsibility of operations and maintenance of the systems to
the farmers organized in Land and Water Associations (LWAs). The desirable direction for the
management of the drainage system is to promote increasing farmer participation in system management
and maintenance, with the Amelioration Bureaux (ABs) of the Government eventually playing a limited
but important regulatory and oversight role. However, the realities of the current conditions warrant a
transition arrangement until: (a) the ABs can effectively perform planning, regulatory, and emergency
management functions; and (b) the LWAs can take over most of the system management functions at the
local level above the main drainage channels. At present, there are four LWAs registered under the old
Law of Associations predating the present Amelioration Law. Five to ten LWAs are anticipated to be
registered in 1995. In the present context of Estonian agriculture, formation of such associations under
the new law (which specifies financial and management responsibilities of farmers) will be progressive
and will need a strong program of action for reasons given below.
13.   Given the uncertainties surrounding land ownership and use, unstable input and output prices, and
weak access to market intelligence, it does not appear easy for farmers to take over immediate
responsibility for the drainage system. The assumption of management and financial responsibilities for
the drainage system by the LWAs must be planned and developed in a sequential, participatory and
evolutionary manner. A blueprint approach is clearly not desirable. Under these circumstances, it is
planned that the Government will extend financial assistance to the LWAs for one round of selective
rehabilitation of system, especially collector drains and related drainage systems, to prevent their further
deterioration during the transition. Once rehabilitated to conditions where these systems would require
normal and routine maintenance, the LWAs would assume full responsibility for subsequent operations,
maintenance and periodic rehabilitation in the future.
14.   Size and Functions of LWAs. The size of the Association would depend on the hydraulic area
to be served, taking into account the size of each catchment area. It is expected that each Association
would eventually cover about 1,000 ha and the Associations in the proposed project area for Bank support
will likely number about 60. The primary responsibilities of the Association would be: (a) involvement
in the planning, acceptance and implementation of rehabilitation works; (b) system maintenance of on-
farm main drains, collector drains, and drain outlets; and (c) protection of the system against theft and
destruction. To this end, the associations would be legally empowered to enter into contracts with repair
and maintenance companies and borrow funds where necessary. In addition, the LWAs would provide
an organized forum for farmers and external agencies for discussions and action on business planning, land
improvement, and agricultural development issues including needs for advisory services or extension. The



PIP 2
Page 6 of 18
LWAs would also, over time, organize training programs for their members in technical and financial
management and investment planning. Relevant laws regulating the functions of the LWAs include: Land
Amelioration Law (1994); Law on Associations (1992); Business Law (1995); and the Water Law (1994).
15.   Internal Organization and Management of LWAs. While each LWA is responsible for establishing
each own management, the Land Amelioration Law stipulates that each association must comply with the
Law of Associations (1992). In general, a Chairperson is elected for a maximum period of 5 years, either
directly by members (a case when the size of the LWA is less than 10 members) or through the LWA
Board. Main responsibilities of the Chairperson include the overall functioning of the LWA, chairing the
LWA Board, and chairing the annual meetings of the LWA. The LWA Board, in cases needed for larger
LWAs, is elected by members. Annually, a third of the board members are to be replaced through an
election. Jointly, the Chairperson and the Board are responsible for: (a) day-to-day activities, including
supervision of farmers' contribution to the maintenance of the drainage system; (b) maintaining contacts
with the Amelioration Bureau, the Municipality, the county office of the Land Board, the Farmers' Union,
and other LWAs in the vicinity; (c) representing the LWA in meetings with third parties; and (d)
organizing annual meetings where decisions are made on budget, administrative and operational matters.
Voting is based on simple majority: one vote for each member (regardless of the size of the individual
member's farm), unless otherwise specified in the constitution document of the association. The LWA,
depending on size, will also have an Executive Secretariat consisting of technical staff who can deal with
specific matters related to (for example) operations and maintenance, machinery, technical calculations
and budgeting, preliminary designs and internal approval of works. The LWA may also employ
administrative and accounting personnel on a full or part-time basis. Should the LWAs be larger than
30 members, an internal auditing committee is formed.
16.   Procedure for LWA Formation. Once an initiative is taken to form an association by a group of
farmers, most commonly a Task Force is formed for the preparation of a constitutional meeting and its
subsequent series of discussions and consultations for the preparation of the Constitution Document of the
association. This Task Force may consist of a few farmers, a representative from the Amelioration
Bureau, and a representative from the Municipality. The LWA becomes a legal entity once registered
at the county level. The registration process may take one week to a few months in cases where legal
complication arises. Preparation for the Constitution Document requires active participation from farmers
so that intemal rules and regulations of the association can be formulated satisfactorily. The Constitution
Document must necessarily cover basic issues relating to: (a) level of membership entrance and annual
fees; (b) definition of shared responsibilities and costs; (c) procedures for calculating and allocating shared
costs; (d) collection procedures for shared costs; (e) description of the use of revenues and fees; (f)
regulations to deal with non-payment of shared costs; (g) methods to deal with inflation; and (h) other
administrative, financial, operational, management and organizational aspects of the association.
17.   Training and Government Assistance for LWA Development. The formation of effective LWAs
will require a major effort on the part of the Amelioration Bureaux. The experience of the present AB
staff is largely technical, and until recently has not involved extensive participatory interaction with
farmers. In some cases, the farmers too are new to the agricultural scene. It is important that the ABs
participate actively in the formation of Associations because they would have to enter into several rounds
of discussions and negotiations with members of the Association to come up with an agreement on and
joint approval of the scope of rehabilitation works and responsibilities, prior to the commencement of
physical works on each site. A systematic program of communication and training will be necessary to
induce ABs to participate actively in strengthening the LWAs in using enabling legislation. To this end,



PIP 2
Page 7 of 18
the staff of the ABs will need training and advisory assistance on the legal, organizational and financial
aspects of farmers' organization. The GOE is committed to provide funding through its budget sources
to: (a) train the staff of the ABs: and (b) recruit and train local consultants to serve as facilitators in the
context of the LWA development and to assist in the formulation of various agreements between the
Government and LWAs on the scope of rehabilitation works and shared responsibilities for each site.
Training of the AB staff and LWA development facilitators is planned to commence in 1996 and continue
intermittently until 1997.
18.   In direct connection with LWA development, the Government provides assistance in three forms:
(a) one-time assistance in the form of office equipment, software and supplies; (b) training and extension
related to skill development of the LWA leaders and members for organizing and managing their day-to-
day tasks (administration, accounting, technical operations and maintenance etc.); and (c) provision for
start-up costs associated with formation of the LWAs including consultations, communications, legal paper
work, right up to registration at the county level. The costs associated with these three forms of direct
assistance to the LWA are estimated on average at EEK 90,000 in year 1995 financial terms per LWA.
The GOE will provide the MOA with adequate budget allocations to cover these expenses.
19.    Social Assessment. Studies and Technical Assistance. During the course of the project, the
Amelioration Unit will commission three studies, namely: (a) a series of social assessment of target
drainage areas; (b) clarification of the future role of the Amelioration Bureaux; and (c) a mid-term review
of the LWA development program. These studies would be undertaken and phased appropriately to
support the overall development of the LWAs and the targeting of project's initiatives and activities.
Social assessment of target sites will be carried out early in 1996, and development of local skills to
undertake this social assessment has started in the last quarter of 1995 (post appraisal, prior to project start
date) with training provided through bilateral sources and World Bank's own resources (Fund for
Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development-FIAHS). While the criteria for area selection
include the establishment of the LWAs and agreement by the associations to pay for part of the
rehabilitation costs, there are a number of factors that can influence the achievement of this requirement:
*      Farmers' willingness to invest in drainage rehabilitation within a specific site may not be
homogeneous; some farmers may be of pensionable age with a strong self-sufficient
attitude to survival, while others are young and learning-by-doing people who are
exchanging labor and machinery with their neighbors;
*      The level of experience among targeted farmers varies in light of new ownerships and
categories of farmers. This factor influences adaptability to an emerging market system
and ultimately farm restructuring;
*      The lengthy land restitution and privatization process underway has resulted in a mosaic
of interim and recognized rights to land ownership and use, and this condition to some
extent can inhibit long-term investments by farmers;
*      There is a need to tailor a package of assistance to farmers in order to support local
initiatives; and local capacity for designing and delivering this package is essential for the
sustainability of the investment strategy.
20.   Considering the above factors, the MOA will undertake social assessments of households, with
the objective of constructing social maps of the areas preliminarily selected for drainage rehabilitation and
using these maps as inputs for the final area selection in accordance with technical, social, economic and
environmental criteria. The preparation for this social assessment will focus on training local experts in



PIP 2
Page 8 of 18
the methodologv of rapid assessment techniques (both qualitative and quantitative). Once this training
is completed by the end of 1995 or early 1996, the Amelioration Unit will then engage these local experts
to conduct social assessments of the preselected areas in stages over two years.
21.    Technical Standards. Prior to project launch, and during the post-appraisal period, the MOA plans
to receive technical assistance from Finland3 for: (a) development of standards on designs, materials and
work quality for drainage rehabilitation, and environmental aspects arising thereof; and (b) training on
these standards for the technical staff of the Amelioration Unit, Amelioration Bureaux and drainage
construction companies in Estonia. It is anticipated that the output of this assistance will be used
subsequently as inputs for the preparation of standard bidding documents.
Drainage Research
22.    The existing drainage research program would be reoriented to address issues of reduction in
maintenance costs, sustainability of systems, and environmental protection. The research needs are
primarily of an adaptive type to improve subsurface drain life and reduce open drain maintenance costs,
and environmental aspects arising thereof. Results of this research are expected to be available in 1998,
and practical information packages will be prepared for dissemination to LWAs in 1999. The Institute
of Water Management of the Agriculture University (Tartu) will be responsible for conducting this
research. The GOE will provide adequate funding for this research program, estimated at about US
$200,000 (base costs) including the costs of field instruments and equipment (US $50,000) and US
$150,000 for operations and staff time over a period of 5 years.
Land Use Management Studies
23.    Related to the environmental aspects of drained lands and wetlands, the project through its Land
Use Management4 component covers the following:
(a)    Wetlands Management Stratezv Study. The main objective of the strategy would be to
develop a -national strategy for wetlands in Estonia. A key component would be to
recommend a classification and identification system to establish the value of wetlands
in Estonia. This is a complementary strategy exercise, covering wetlands in forest and
agriculture areas: drained lands no longer under cultivation, or to be abandoned to natural
regrowth; peat-mined areas for restoration; and the management of polders no longer
under active operation. This activity would be coordinated with the "Wetstonia" initiative
of the World Wildlife Fund for Nature/Estonian Fund for Nature and the actions to be
supported under the Bank financed Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project. The
Wetlands Management Strategy Study would commence on June 1, 1996 and is scheduled
to be completed after one year.
3      Based on Estonian-Finnish cooperation agreement dated May 18, 1995, consisting of 6 person-months of Finnish experts,
travel expenses and logistical support at an estimated cost of FIM 200,000.
4      Detailed cost table presented in Table 5 of Annex 6.



PIP 2
Page 9 of 18
(b)    Environmental Monitoring of Drainage Rehabilitation. MOE is responsible to monitor
the drainage rehabilitation works and to develop appropriate environmental screening
criteria and procedures to ensure safe environmental standards of the works. The project
would support MOE by financing laboratory equipment to analyze and monitor water
samples from the proposed drainage sites, and local consultants to conduct environmental
screening of each of the proposed sites. The laboratory equipment would be installed in
the Estonian Environmental Research Laboratory.
(c)    Environmental Studies for Future Drainage Investments. The project also supports a
sectoral environmental drainage study which will analyze future options for drained lands,
and measures needed to convert drained land from its present use to other uses such as
forest land, parks, wildlife protection areas or wetlands. This study will be commissioned
by the Ministry of Environment, funded by the project and undertaken by consultants.
Three MOE's departments will be involved in the study: Departments of Water (main
responsibility), Nature Conservation, and Environmental Impact Analysis and Normative.
The study would commence on January 1, 1997 and is scheduled to be completed after
two years.
C. Financing Plan'
24.   The financing plan for this project component is as shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
Financing Plan6
US $ '000
Expenditure Accounts              Govemnment  World Bank'  Farners          Total
Civil Works                        1,584        4,752a         1,584c        7,920
Design                              233           931b                       1,164
Equipment                           357                                       357
Training                            162                                        162
Total Investment Cost             2,336         5,683          1,584         9,603
Inc. Recurrent Costs               1,667                       1,066d        2,733
TOTAL                             4,003         5,683         2,650          12,366
5     Detailed costs are presented in Tables 2,3 and 4 of Annex 7.
6      This financing plan excludes the Land Use Management component of the Ministry of Environment.



PIP 2
Page 10 of 18
^ Bank financing at 60%/o of the total cost of civil works.
b Bank financing at 800/e of the costs of drainage designs and supervision of construction works.
c Farmers' contribution calculated at 20% of the total cost of physical rehabilitation works.
d Operations and maintenance costs paid for by farmers, once systems are handed over and rehabilitated.
Loan disbursement is described in Section 11 (G) of the Staff Appraisal Report.
II. Implementation Arrangements
A. Organizations Responsible for the Component7
25.    Under the supervision and coordination of the Amelioration Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Amelioration Bureaux will be responsible for the implementation of the physical rehabilitation of the
drainage systems in their own county. As there are 12 ABs throughout the country, three counties will be
covered by ABs located in nearby counties. The drainage rehabilitation works will be spread throughout
the country, and each AB is expected to be responsible for not more than 5 construction works at any
given time. This work will be done through contracts with private contractors and construction
companies. MOA will support a reoriented drainage research program to address concerns related to
system maintenance and sustainability. This research will be undertaken by the Institute of Water
Management of the Agricultural University in Tartu. LWAs will be fully responsible for future
maintenance and rehabilitation of on-farm systems.
26.    Environmental screening of drainage sites will be the responsibility of the County Environmental
Offices and under the overall supervision of the MOE. The overall coordination of MOE's involvement
in this screening process will be under the responsibility of the Water Department. The Amelioration Unit
of the MOA will liaise closely with the MOE so that timing and areas to be covered for environmental
screening fit with the overall implementation phases of the project.
7       The role and functions of an Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee (PSC), and its composition, are described in
Annex 5. On day-to-day tasks, this PSC is assisted by two Joint Project Directors, respectively appointed from the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment.



PIP 2
Page 11 of 18
27.   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will assist the Amelioration Unit, the Amelioration
Bureaux, and the departments in MOE, in aspects related to procurement, loan disbursement, accounting,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as administrative support.
28.   GOE will provide a contingency fund to the PIU of about $400,000 equivalent, for the use by the
PIU in drainage site areas, to ensure that prior to commencement of rehabilitation works, all lands to
benefit from these works have been surveyed, registered in the cadastre, and that ownership has been
clarified and registered in the title book.
B. Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
29.   Agreements related to this component to be reached at negotiations between the Borrower and
Implementing agencies are as follows:
(a)    The MOA will work with the Ministry of Environment on assessments, evaluations, and
implementation required for the drainage rehabilitation and maintenance program to
ensure that only strategic drainage work will be undertaken in accordance with agreed
environmental considerations.
(b)    The Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture will have reached agreement
on the environmental screening criteria and procedures for the drainage rehabilitation
component.
(c)    The MOA will undertake rehabilitation works only if all the criteria for area selection
are met, including that the obligations of the LWAs are fulfilled by the LWAs.
(d)    GOE will ensure that for the priority drainage rehabilitation sites the necessary rural
infrastructure upgrading,9 currently planned under the Public Investment Plan in general
terms, will be provided at the locations of the participating LWAs as a complement to
their improved drainage systems.
(e)    The GOE will provide sufficient funding allocations to MOA for the establishment and
promotion of LWAs, including the associated training and studies as determined under the
project. In addition, GOE will also provide funding to the Institute of Water Management
for the planned research program under the project, including provision of adequate
funding for operations and staff time required for the research.
(f)    MOE will commence the Wetlands Management Strategy Study and the Environmental
Study for Future Drainage Investments with the timing as shown in this PIP, or as
otherwise agreed during the implementation.
8     Terms of reference of the PIU are presented in Annex 5. This PIU reports to the Inter-Ministerial Project Steering
Committee.
9     Rural roads, water supplies, teleconmunications, and electricity.



PIP 2
Page 12 of 18
(g)    The Borrower shall use the standard bidding documents for NCB contracts issued by the
ECA Region.
(h)    The Borrower will establish, in the PIU, the contingency fund for land survey and
registration of the lands in each drainage rehabilitation site.
(i)    That the Borrower will prior to commencement of rehabilitation works, dispose of all
State-owned land in the chosen Project drainage sites either by sale or lease.
C. Role of the Bank During Supervision
30.   The drainage component will be supervised by Bank personnel (or designated consultants) in
accordance with the proposed supervision plan summarized in Chapter III (F) of the Staff Appraisal
Report.
m. Implementation Plan
A. Timebound Schedule
31.   The broad implementation plan for the drainage rehabilitation and maintenance component is
shown in Appendix I of this Annex. Timelines shown are for a cycle, from site selection and design to
rehabilitation works, including interactive and parallel development of the Land and Water Associations.
Appendix 1, as an example, shows the timing for Phase II (after a small pilot phase involving 3,500 ha)
16,500 ha. Critical and key steps for Phase III and Phase IV implementation schedules are similar, to
commence a year and two years later respectively from Phase II start-up date.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
32.     Table 2 lists the major procurement packages and their schedules of this project component.
Table 3 provides the procurement packages of the Land Use Management component. For all items funded
under the loan proceeds, GOE agrees that: (a) it would apply procurement procedures which are
consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January,
1995), and Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August, 1981) for procurement of Bank-financed goods and consultant's services, and
(b) that progress reports prepared by Government would include monitoring of the procurement process
of the various aggregate amounts and ceilings. Procurement methods for items funded under the loan
proceeds are as follows:
(a) Civil Works (US $7.9 million). All civil works items would be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). NCB items for civil works are for drainage rehabilitation and
maintenance. The number of contracts is expected to be about 60. NCB is justifiable because:
(a) Estonia's open competitive economy generates works at prices below the intemational market,



PIP 2
Page 13 of 18
and (b) Estonia's laws do not prevent international contractors from participating in NCB. NCB
is appropriate given that: (a) the average values of works per site are small (less than US
$150,000 and will not exceed $300,000); (b) locations are scattered geographically (and thus not
permitting "packaging" of a number of site contrcts) and catchment areas cover non-contiguous
drainage systems of 100 to 150 hectares in size; (c) implementation requires continuous
consultations with, and participation and contribution from local farmers; (d) ownership of the
drainage rehabilitation is linked with intensive participatory preparation of establishing Land and
Water Associations; and (e) small contracts to local contractors reduce mobilization and
organization costs. Domestic bidders will not receive preferences, and contracts must be awarded
to the lowest evaluated bid in sequence. At negotiations, agreements would be sought that the
Borrower shall use standard bidding documents for NCB contracts issued by the ECA Region



PE2
Page 14 of 18
Table 2
Drainage Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
Summary of Major Procurement Packages and Schedules
Component               Est.    Proc.      Preparation of     Tender      Bid         Contract   Contrac
Cost    Method    Bidding Docs.      Docs        Submitted    Signed    Compleion
USS               month/year         Issued      mth/yr       mth/yr    mtL/yr
M                                    mtb/yr
Drainage Design Studies   0.16   Cons.     Oct-95 - Nov-95    Jan-96      Feb-96      Mar-96    Dec-96
( 18 sites-16,500 ha)          Services
Drainage Design Studies   0.27   Cons.     Oct-96 - Nov-96    Jan-97      Feb-97      Mar-97    Dec-97
( 25 sites-25,000 ha)          Services
Drainage Design Studies   0.18   Cons.     Oct-97 - Nov-97    Jan-98      Feb-98      Mar-98    Dec-98
(15 sites- 15,000 ha)          Services
Drainage - Civil Works    0.44    NCB      Dec-95 - Jan-96    Feb-96      Mar-96      Apr-96    Oct-97
Phase 1: 2 sites
Drainage - Civil Works    2.13   NCB       Dec-96 - Jan-97    Feb-97      Mar-97      Apr-97    Oct-98
Phase 2: 18 sites
Drainage - Civil Works    3.31   NCB       Dec-97 - Jan-98    Feb-98      Mar-98      Apr-98    Oct-99
Phase 3: 25 sites
Drainage - Civil Works    2.03   NCB       Dec-98 - Jan-99    Feb-99      Mar-99      Apr-99    Oct-00
Phase 4: 15 sites
Drainage                0.03     Cons.     Dec.95 - Jan-96    Feb-96      Mar-96       Apr-96    Oct-97
Supervision: Phase I             Services
Drainage                0.15     Cons.     Dec-96 - Jan-97    Feb-97      Mar-97      Apr-97    Oct-98
Supervision: Phase 2             Services
Drainage                0.23     Cons.     Dec-97 - Jan-98    Feb-98      Mar-98       Apr-98    Oct-99
Supervision: Phase 3             Services
Drainage                0.14     Cons.     Dec-98 - Jan-99    Feb-99      Mar-99       Apr-99    Oct-00
Supervision: Phase 4             Services
Equipment & Software    0.30    N.B.F      n.a.               n.a.        n.a.         na.       nLa. yearly
for LWAs                                   yearly             yearly      yearly       yearly    over 5 yrs
Social Assessments   _ 0.08    N.B.F.    Nov-95 - Dec-95    Jan-96        Feb-96      Mar-96    Dec-97
Drainage sites
Evaluation - LWA        0.01     N.B.F    July-97             Aug-97      Sept-97      Sept-97    Dec-97
Program
Role Clarification of   0.02     N.B.F    July-97             Aug-97      Sept-97      Sept-97    Dec-97
Amelioration Bureaux
Equipment for Drainage    0.05    N.B.F    Jan-96             Feb-96      Mar-96      Apr-96    Mar-97
Research
TOTAL                   9.53



PIP 2
Page 15 of 18
Table 3
Land Use Management Component
Summary of Major Procurement Packages' and Schedules
Component            Est.   Proc.    Preparation of   Tender    Bid        Contract  Contract
Cost   Method   Bidding Docs.   Docs       Submitted   Signed    Completion
USS             month/year      Issued     mth/yr    mth/yr    mth/yr
M                               mth/yr
Strategy for Wetlands    0.14    Cons.   Jan-96       Mar-96    Apr-96     May-96   Dec-97
Management Study            Services
Environmental Studies    0.08    Cons.   Jan-96       Mar-96    Apr-96     May-96   Dec-97
for Future Drainage         Services
Environmental Screening  0.11    Cons.   Sept-95 - Nov-95   Dec-95    Feb-96  Feb-96    Dec-98
for Drainage Sites          Services
Environmental        0.54   ICB      Jan-96 - Mar-96    April-96   June-96    July-96   Dec-96
Laboratory Equipment
Total                0.87
(b)    Designs (US $1.1 million). The Project would introduce standardized contracts for engineering
design and civil works supervision for drainage rehabilitation works. Each Amelioration Bureau
(AB) would select a consulting company, through a competitive process, to provide all engineering
design and civil works supervision for all drainage rehabilitation sites within the responsibility of
the AB. The contracts would be grouped into packages of approximately US $50,000 each and
administered by the 12 ABs.
(c)    Studies (US $0.3 million).  The Project would finance studies on land use management.
(d)    Environmental Laboratory Equipment (US $0.5 million). The Ministry of Environment (the
Water Department) will procure this equipment in accordance with the International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures of the World Bank. The Borrower would use Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents as applicable. The application of domestic preferences would be in accordance with
the requirements under Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines: for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (January 1995), and expressed clearly in the bidding documents for goods.
33.    Items which are not included for Bank financing consist of: (a) studies (US $115,000) for
social assessments of drainage sites, clarification of the future role of the Amelioration Bureaux, and a
mid-term review of the LWA development program; (b) equipment and software for the LWAs (US
$302,000) and drainage research (US $55,000); and (c) training of the ABs and LWA development
facilitators (US $162,000). All of these items, amounting to a total of US $634,000, will be wholly
financed by the Govemment and procured in accordance with the prevailing Government procedures.
10     World Bank financing at 100%; and subject to Bank's procurement rules and guidelines.



PIP 2
Page 16 of 18
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation"
A. Key Development Indicators12
34.    Key development indicators include the following:
*      Increases in crop and pasture yields per ha to threshold yields specified in economic
analysis
*      Overall increases in agricultural production from drainage rehabilitation area
*      Number of farns with positive income (compare to farm  models in financial analysis)
B. Key Progress Indicators'3
35.    Physical:
*      Length of main canals/drains rehabilitated
*      Length of collector drains rehabilitated
*       QNumber of subsurface drain outlets repaired and flushed
*      Number and hectarage of drainage sites designed, and rehabilitated
36.    Planning:
*      Completion of screening procedures to select area for drainage rehabilitation
*       Stages and status of preselection of areas, and selection of areas to be rehabilitated
*      Number of Environmental Screening and Environmental Impact Assessments completed
Completion of drainage research and follow-up dissemination actions taken
37.    Institutional:
*      Number of LWAs formally registered
*       QNumber of LWAs that have agreed to drainage rehabilitation and submitted formal
applications to the MOA for the works required
*       QNumber of LWAs carrying out regular maintenance
*      Extent of maintenance (physical, financial) by respective LWAs
11     The monitoring and evaluation specialist of the PIU will be responsible for developing a more comprehensive M&E plan
and design, and expanding and/or refining the scope of the broad indicators outlined here.
12     Indicators for measuring progress in reaching project development objectives.
13     Indicators for monitoring delivery of project inputs and achievements of project outputs.



Drainage Rehabilitatlon Component
Critical and Key Steps and Time Schedules
(Example shown on Phase 2: 16,500 ha, Phases 3 & 4 are similarly sequenced later, a year apart from previous phase)
1995                  1996                 1997                  199S
ID   Task Namne                                           Duration      Start    Qtrl Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4j Ql  QTr | Qlr3 Qtr4 Qtr IQr2 jQ r 3 1tr4 Qtr I |tr2 Qtr3 Qtr 4
1   SITE SELECTION                                            230d    Mar 20 h9C
2        Sile Identilication - Drainage Conditions            1 20d    Mar 20 '95
3        Screening for Best Soil Conritions                   1 20d    Mar 20 '95
4        County Environmental Screening                        80d      Sep 4 '95
6        Assessment - odher criteria           6Dd                     Apr 17 '95
6        Screening for Potential LWAs                          80d     Apr 17'95
7        Clearances with Various Authorities                   1Sd     Dec 25 '95
a        Final SelectIon ot Sites lbr Rehabllatlon             1 5d    Jan 15 '96
9    ENGINEERING DESIGN PREPARATION                           335d      Oct 2 '95            .          -
10       Standard Bidding Document Preparation                 50d       Oct 2 '95
11       Preparalion of Terms of Reference [ TOR 1             15d       Oct 2'95
12       Submit TOR & Standard Bidding DoCs. to World Bank      5d     Dec 1I1 '95
13       RevisiosnClearance of TOR & SBD by World Bank         20d     Decr18  '95
14       General Advertisement & Responses of Interests        20d      Oct 23 '95
16       Prequalfed LIs of Elgible Designers /Surveyors        1Dd     Nov 20'95
16       Short LLst & Criterb used - WB Approval               10d      Dee 495
17       Bid Invitation & Response Deadline                    20d      Feb 5196
1i       Bid Opening& Evaluation                               1Dd      Mar 4'96
19       Negotiation                                            Sd     Mar 18 a I6
20       Contract Awrd                                          5d      Mar 25'96
21       Notice to Proceed                                      5d       Apr 1 S96
22       kIplwmnentaon ot Design Studies                      190d       Apr 8A696
23       Acceptanb  of Desgns by Aultho  le& LWAs              lOd     Dec 30'96
24   CNIL WORKS IMPLEMENTATION I NCB                          8 90Cd    Oct 30 165
25       Adverti                                               20d      Apr 26 16
26       Shodt Lis of Prequaifled ConstrucUon companies         15d    May 24 '96
27       Clearance o Short Usl by Word Bank                     15d     Jun 14'96
28       Preparation of Stard Biddin Docs.                     60d      Oct 30 95
ools



Drainage Rehabltation Cowponent
Critical and Key Steps and Time Schedules
(Example shown on Phase 2:16,500 ha. Phases 3 & 4 are skTiarly sequenced later, a year apart from previous phase)
_                                                            _      1~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~996  |_ 1996  |1997  |199B
ID   Task Nae                                            Duraion       Start     tr  Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4   I I rOtr2 1 Qtr 3 1 Otr4 1 tr1 Qtr 2 1 Qtr 31 Qtr4 Qtr  Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr 4
29       Subnit SBD to World Bank                              Sd      Jan 22'96
30       Revsin & Carance of SBD by Worid Bank                20d      Jan 29 S96
31       Bid Invitation & Response Deadline                   25d      Jan 13 '9
32       Bid Opening & Evaluation                             20d      Feb 17 '97
33       Notice of Award                                       Sd     Mar 17S97
34       Submisson of Performance Bond                        1Od     Mar 24 '97
35       Contract Award                                        5d       Apr 7 '97
36       Notice to Proceed                                     Sd      Apr 14'97
37       Civil Works Impementlatlon (over two years)         390d      Apr 21 '97
38       Acceptances of Construction Works (also by LWAs)     30d      Oct 19 '98
39   FORMATION OF LAND& WATER ASSOCIATIONS                   200d     Apr 17'95       .
40       Ralsing Awareness of Aims of LWA among Farrners      90d      Apr 17 '95
41       Identiricatlon of Community Problems at Specific Sites  iO0d    May 22 '95
42       Negotition and Mediation at Community Level          100d     Jun 26 '95
43       Consensus Bulding                                    1W0d     Jul 31 '95
44       Forma/lzadon & Fonmadon of LWAs                      1Wd      Sep 4 95
46   Farmers' PartIcipation & LWA Strengthening              j60d      Apr 8 '96
46       ConsultatIonsNegotiations during Design              190d      Apr 8 '96
47       Farmers' Participation durng Construction           390d      Apr 21 '97           .
;00



PIP 3
Page I of 18
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ADVISORY SERVICES COMPONENT
L. The Component
A. Objectives
1.    The uncertainties pertaining to production, transformation, marketing and land ownership have
created a large demand for agricultural extension advisory services. The objective of agricultural advisory
services in Estonia is to induce voluntary change among rural people by:
(a)   transferring technology to and from farmers for sustainable agricultural production,
processing, and marketing;
(b)    mobilizing and organizing farmers, rural groups and communities; and
(c)    educating farmers, building human resources and enhancing local capacity to generate,
transfer and use information relevant to entrepreneurial and employment opportunities,
technologies, and markets.
B. Component Description
Background
2.    Pre-independence, agricultural technology and advice moved rapidly between the technical staff
of research stations, state and collective farms, and the university. These highly specialized staff
exchanged information regularly, each of them dealing with a narrow field of activity. Because markets
and prices were predetermined and inputs provided at subsidized prices, questions on profitability,
sustainability and competition did not arise.
3.    As large farms have been dismantled, and small family farms as well as joint stock farms have
emerged, the new farmers need advice and skills that respond to the needs of a market economy. Several
extension systems used in European countries are being introduced and tested with bilateral assistance
(Denmark, Germany, Netherlands).
4.    There are about 700 people employed in Estonia who provide farmers with advice, nearly all on
a part-time basis. Agricultural advisors are employed in the following manner:
(a)   the private sector (e.g. veterinarians, advisors from the processing industries, private
consultants, input suppliers);
(b)   the public sector (e.g. staff from universities, research institutes, county staff of MOA);



PIP 3
Page 2 of 18
(c)   the media (mostly specialized print, and to a lesser extent radio and television); and
(d)   the farmers themselves (e.g. Farmers' Union with a staff of about 150, including 60 full-
time advisors in the field, serving the family farms; or the Producers' Union mainly
serving larger joint stock farms.)
Present levels of public support for extension are low, representing about 0.05% of the agricultural GDP
whereas many countries invest about 1 - 2% of the agricultural GDP in extension.
5.     Who are the Estonian farmers. and what do they need? Roughly speaking, there are three types
of farmers operating in Estonia: (i) viable farmers and farm managers; (ii) farms that need improvements
to become viable; and (iii) the farms of questionable viability, including many part-time farms.
Distinctions between the categories are blurred, but each category has different needs, that should be
addressed --and paid for-- differently. The Project supports all three types of farmers.
(a)    The most viable farmers, including about 2,500 family farms and 1,200 joint stock farm
managers need advice on production techniques, business skills including marketing and
organization, and tactical advice, for instance to expand a herd, or switch crops. Given
a proper introduction, many of them would be willing and able to pay for advice that
benefits their individual enterprise (business development plans, soil tests, or loan
application advice). The project foresees strengthening Private Advisory Services by
supporting a Private Advisory Services Development Fund (PSADF) to provide these
farmers with advice of their choosing. The fund has the dual purpose of providing
eligible farmers with temporary and partial funding to buy advice so they get to appreciate
the value of advisory services in increasing their income, while creating competition and
enhancing quality among private agricultural advisors.
(b)    The middle categorv of farms, including about 10,000 family farms and 1,000 joint stock
farms, mainly need technical and economic advice to make their current operation more
profitable. Very often, those needs can be efficiently met through educational programs
on milk quality improvement, general business skills, or pasture management, for instance.
Such advice covers more public domain information and will continue to be carried out
by the publicly funded extension services. The Project foresees strengthening publicly
funded extension through: (i) more efficient delivery of advice; (ii) improved county
inventories of current farming systems, problems and opportunities; and (iii) increased
farner participation in priority setting.
(c)    Marginal and inviable farms. There are also an estimated number of 5,000 family farms
and 1,500 joint stock farms that must leave farning or at least supplement their income
from non-farming activities. These farmers need information on altemative employment,
on legal matters pertaining to farm closure and land rights upon liquidation, and small and
medium enterprise skills. The govemment is supporting rural information centers that aim
at the most dynamic and risk taking segment of the rural population. The Project will
support expansion of selected, rural information centers to include information on
altemative rural employment, legal matters, and other information that specifically aims
to ease the transition out of farming.



PIP 3
Page 3 of 18
6.    Critical success factors. The success of advisory services depends on: (a) quality advice that
responds to the needs of the farmers; (b) early, strong and continued government support, including
sufficient implementation capacity in a national task force on agricultural extension; and (c) effective
public relations to inform farmers and the public at large of what to expect and what not to expect from
extension. Long term success of extension will also depend on improvements in the curriculum of higher
agricultural education in Estonia to ensure that the new private and public advisors have a stronger
economic grounding, more practical and stronger communication skills and a broader general training; and
on improvements in Estonian agricultural research to make it more responsive to farmers that operate in
a competitive market. Farmers contribute to their advisory services. Most importantly, they help set the
agenda, ensuring that the advice is relevant and the advisors held accountable. Second, the farmers are
expected to pay for an increasing share of the PASDF and the operation and maintenance of the rural
information centers.
7.    Implications on govemment spending and farmers' contribution. Proposed support for Estonian
advisory services is important, but limited, both in time and in scope. The Private Advisory Services
Development Fund requires only an initial investment, because the farmers are expected to take over those
programs over time. The Rural Information Centers will be partially self-financing over time, and only
minimal public spending will be needed. The public extension service will remain a government
investment in human resources, resulting in increased income and increased rural welfare. Chances to
sustainably fund the public extension services are high, because of the important reduction in county-level
field staff (from 6-7 per county to about 3-4).
The Private Advisory Services Development Fund (PASDF)
8.    This fund has the dual purpose of creating and developing demand for advisory services among
the most viable farmers who are willing and able to pay for services; and creating competition among
advisors to enhance their responsiveness to clients' needs. The program will be introduced in stages: a
simple, limited pilot phase to start with, and a mainstreamed, more elaborated phase later on. It is
estimated that about 3,000 farmers will need "private" advice, put it to effective use, and be willing and
able to pay for it. It is planned that each eligible farmer would receive a grant from the PASDF of 2,000
EEK in 1996, which would cover a comprehensive business plan and ten to twenty visits a year. The
Government would decrease the level of the annual grant and phase out the grant payment over 8 years.
Assuming that one private advisor would have about 30 clients, his or her gross income from this scheme
would be about 66,000 EEK, including the 200 EEK contribution of each farmer (in 1996). Such income
would allow for a monthly income of 2,500 EEK and an annual operational budget that would include
transport and communications of about 30,000 EEK. Over the 5-year Project period the mission estimates
that the services of about 100 to 170 full-time equivalent advisors would be funded by PASDF.
9.    In the pilot phase (1995-1996), funds from the budget, managed by the MOA, will be transferred
from the MOA to the counties, based on shares of arable land. A county level steering committee will:
(a)   set criteria for fanner eligibility. Many counties will apply one or two simple criteria
for eligibility, like 10 hectares of land, or 15 milking cows, for instance
(b)   inform farmers. Using direct mailing, public meetings and mass media carnpaigns, the
county extension service will make the farmers in the county aware of the program, and
of the exact procedures for them to follow in order to benefit from the program. In



PIP 3
Page 4 of 18
particular, the county office, overseen by the steering committee, will: (i) inform the
public at large of the program; (ii) invite eligible farmers to apply; (iii) register applicants;
(iv) provide the applicants with a draft contract between the farmer(s) and the advisor(s)
(c)     oversee payment of advisors upon satisfactory completion of advisory services, as agreed
in the contract between farmer(s) and advisor(s).
The county-level steering committee would have one representative from the Farmers' Union, one from
the Producers' Union, and one from the county extension service, and when formed, the heads of the
LWAs in that county.
Table 1: Proposed Phase Out of Government Contribution to Private Agricultural Advisor Service Cost
Average Annual
Year      Advisory        Farmer's self-paynent        PASDF Grant         Bank's Contribution to
Contract per     FirslfpyinPA     GitPASDF Grant
Fanner
(EEK)           (EEK)         (%)           (EEK)    (%)         (EEK)        (%)
1         2,200             220          10           1,980      90        1,584         80
2         2,200             330          15           1,870      85         1,496        80
3         2,200             440          20            1,760     80        1,408         80
4         2,200             550          25            1,650     75         1,320        80
5         2,200             660          30            1,540     70        1,232         80
6         2,200             880          40            1,320     60                       0
7         2,200            1,210         55             990      45                       0
8         2,200           1,650          75             550      25                       0
9         2,200           2,200         100               0       0                       0
10.    The farmers' responsibilities would be spelled out clearly during the public awareness carnpaign,
and include:
(a)     formulate demand for advice
(b)     apply for PASDF to the county
(c)     choose advisor(s)
(d)     sign contract with advisor, including a mutually agreed plan of action and
payment details
(e)     pay 10 % of advisor's fee in 1996, 15%  in 1997, 25%  in 1998, 25%  in 1999,
30% in 2000, 40% in 2001, and a higher share thereafter.
(d)     sign contract again, for delivery of advisory services
11.    The private advisors' responsibilities would be to:
(a)     advertize his or her availability, skills, particular interests



PIP 3
Page 5 of 18
(b)    sign contract with farner(s) that clearly spells out the type of advice to be given,
and the expected results of adopted advice
(c)    deliver advice as agreed
(d)    present contract, with farmers' signature for completion of advisory services to
county extension office
(e)   receive payment
12.   After the initial pilot phase in 1995-1996, a number of refinements will be made, depending on
experiences gained. They includes:
(a)    an increase in the amount to be distributed, to enable in a one-year period, a
business development plan to be developed, and a minimum of ten to twenty
farmn visits to be made;
(b)    a gradual decrease in public funding, to reach zero in 8 years' time, when farmers
are expected to pay for "private" information themselves (see Table 1);
(c)    a distribution of funds among counties, based on actual demand, rather than
simple hectarage;
(d)    a more elaborate set of eligibility criteria, based on a transparent system of
economic viability of the individual farm, using a simple points system that gives
weighted values for the major farm assets, under the prevailing market conditions;
(e)    a form of registration and quality control of the individual advisors, based on
farmer opinion and industry initiatives: associations of advisors of proven quality
would be provided with incentives that would be channeled through, and
controlled by, the farmers;
(f)   the training needs of the advisors will be assessed upon completion of the pilot
phase. A comprehensive training program among private advisors, possibly
combined with a government certification procedure, will be started on the basis
of skillgap analysis. Both the skillgap analysis and the advisor training will be
supported by the Project;
(g)    a more representative, elected steering committee.
13.   The National Agricultural Extension Task Force has a major role to play in operationalizing the
PASDF. The NAETF, through the staff of the MOA, will:
(a)   train the county extension staff;
(b)    oversee and encourage the development of extension tools, including simple
computer software to assist farmers' cost/benefit analyses;
(c)    assist in the election of the steering committee;
(d)   train the county steering committees, including PASDF procedures, registration
of private advisors, examples of successes of extension, Public Relations and
public awareness campaigning.
Public Extension Improvement
14.   Publicly funded extension is ongoing in Estonia, but needs to be more demand driven, held more
accountable by the farmers, make better use of the potential of existing resources and media, and work
towards clearly defined and monitorable goals. The project aims to support the public extension through:



PIP 3
Page 6 of 18
(a)    simple, practical country extension inventories, providing minimum information who the
farmers are: in terms of farming systems, trends in crop and animal yields, numbers and
types of farmers, gender, part- or full-time, alternative income, age distribution. This
information is presently fragmented or unavailable. The Project would provide training
for staff to draft a simple, 1 -2 page questionnaire, and incremental operational funds for
2 staff in each county (one from the county office, one from the Farmers' Union) to
carry out the inventory during 2 -3 weeks, and update it twice during the life of the
project, during 1 week each. Office supplies have also foreseen, to present the findings,
including simple maps of farming systems, in an attractive manner.
(b)   the use of rapid, participatory assessment (PRA) techniques to build consensus among
farmers, researchers and extension staff on priorities for extension programs. The Project
would provide training of staff in PRA techniques, incremental operation funds to carry
out one assessment in each of the 15 counties by 6 persons (representing county office,
Farmers' Union, Producers' Union, research, agri-business) during 3-4 weeks, to be
repeated once after two years. In addition, the Project foresees 2 staff months of Technical
Assistance to train selected staff in the use of PRA techniques, optimizing present
techniques to build consensus among all major stakeholders. The expected output of the
assessments would be a plan of action for the advisory services. Fanner needs would not
be limited to production techniques, but also include needs for business skills, tactical
advice and organizational aspects of farmer associations or commodity groups.
(c)    more coordinated production of extension materials, reducing present overlapping
initiatives, while improving the quality and uptake by farmers. The project would support
development and production of extension materials, training of staff and farmers, the
development of extension tools, including simple farm management software packages.
In addition, the MOA in the context of the Project would support incremental operational
funding.
(d)    more efficient diffusion, through the training of extension advisors, and the use of the
electronic and printed media. The Project foresees support for printing, diffusion on radio
and television of relevant programs, training of trainers, study tours, and incremental
operational funding.
(e)    more effective impact monitoring, through the use of agreed upon performance
indicators. The Project would support training and incremental operational funds to
collect, analyze, present and put to practical use, the findings, based on the performance
indicators. For a comprehensive list of indicators, see Section IV of this project
implementation plan.
The Rural Information Centers
15.   The government is supporting rural business centers that aim at the most dynamic and risk taking
segment of the rural population. The Government aims to expand the scope of these business centers to
include information on alternative employment and other legal and economic advice, that specifically aims
to ease the transition out of fanning. The concept for the centers was inspired by the Scandinavian



PIP 3
Page 7 of 18
telecottage model. The first telecottage opened in 1985 in Sweden. The following basic services are
provided:
(a)    information services: access to regional, national and international databases;
(b)    data-processing services: access to computers with a selection of programs;
(c)    IT consultancies: the telecottage management is undertaken by an "IT caretaker", who
also assists local businesses and organizations;
(d)    distance working: providing workstations for distance working;
(e)    education: open university type and online tutorials;
(f)    telecommunications: fax, e-mail, etc.;
(g)    village hall facilities: rooms and facilities for meetings, information.
The project would support modest funding to provide equipment and support the development of training
material. This initiative would require complementary technical assistance to assist in organizing these
centers as joint-stock companies, initially with the local municipality as the major shareholder and
progressively increasing the share of private ownership in subsequent years. The EU Phare program has
been planned to include this type of technical assistance for a duration of at least a year. Also, GOE
foresees expansion of the present advisory services with information on alternative rural employment, legal
matters, and other information that specifically aims to ease the transition out of farming.
Support to the National Agricultural Extension Task Force (NAETF)
16.    The NAETF plays a crucial role in the development of the Estonian advisory services. In
particular, the NAETF will:
(a)    coordinate and facilitate the development of the private advisory services through training
of staff, setting of criteria of farmer eligibility, preparing model and standardized
contracts, for instance;
(b)    contract selected extension products, like brochures, training programs, media productions,
through assistance in writing technical specifications, selection, negotiations, setting
indicators for performance;
(c)    inform policy makers on effects of policies at farm level, and of farmer appreciation of
public extension services;
(d)    facilitate linkages between extension and research; and
(e)    promote extension through improved public relations.
17.    Under the project, the NAETF's capacity to contract specific extension tasks, including writing
TORs, negotiating contracts and monitoring performance, will be strengthened through vehicles
redeployment, equipment, training, and technical assistance. The NAETF would benefit from substantial
assistance from an EU (Phare) supported program for at least one year. Currently, the NAETF receives
technical assistance (EU (Phare)) to develop the operation of the Private Advisory Services Development
Fund. This includes the preparation of pre-qualification criteria for agricultural advisors and the
preparation of standardized contracts for advisors and farmers. The County Extension officers will be



PIP 3
Page 8 of 18
trained in management and operation of the payments to advisors, and evaluation of advisory services.
C. Financing Plan'
18.    The financing plan for this project component is as shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2
Advisory Services Component
Financing Plan
US $ '000
Expenditure Accounts               Govemmente   Donor    Farmers             World       Total
Bank
Studies                              28                                        291b        319
Technical Assistance                               484c                                    484
Equipment (including                451                                        170'        621
materials)
Training                            385                                         46'        431
Advisory Services (PASDF)           660'                          1,109      2,640f    4,409
Total Investment Cost              1,524           484            1,109       3,147      6,264
Inc. Recurrent Costs5               284                                                    284
TOTAL                              1,808           484            1,109       3,147      6,548
2Staff training for public extension service, and rural information centers.
bMaterials (various) development and skill gap analysis
'EU Phare technical assistance program.
dDemonstration materials including small tools for public extension service.
eTraining in Rapid Rural Appraisal techniques.
f PASDF's 5-year funding, amounting to US $3.3 million, to which the Bank and MOA contribute.
gto cover operational expenses, including travel per diems, vehicle operating costs, logistics etc.
hGove.mment funds may be substituted with donor funds when available during implementation.
19.    PASDF will reimburse farmers for each annual agricultural advisory contract up to a limit of EEK
2000. The Bank will disburse 80% of the payments by PASDF for advisory services to fanners and the
Government will contribute the remaining 20%. Farners will pay at least 10% of the total contract value
in 1996 (estimated at EEK 2200) and over time, as the farmer's contribution to the advisory costs
increases, the proportion of grants paid per contract decreases.
I       Detailed costs are presented in Table I of Annex 7, and disbursement aspects described in Section 11 (G) of the Staff
Appraisal Report.



PIP 3
Page 9 of 18
II. Implementation Arrangements
A. Organizations Responsible for the Component
20.   MOA has decided not to do extension, but to get it done; and it should not favor any one advisory
service, but provide a level, competitive platform. The MOA has created a NAETF to manage the
development of advisory services and to redefine the Ministry's own role in extension. The NAETF is
responsible to an advisory council, with a maioritY representation of farmers, and in which research, the
University and colleges, the processors, input suppliers, commercial banks and the media are represented.
The advisory council would meet about twice a year and sets policy guidelines for the NAETF. This
NAETF will be expanded under the Project by relocating underutilized county staff, to become a group
of extension specialists, temporarily housed in the MOA, pending the privatization of the NAETF. Such
privatization of the NAETF would: (a) stimulate more farner participation, commitment and ownership
in design, implementation and monitoring of extension; (b) better integrate research, education and
extension; and (c) develop funding mechanisms for extension from alternative sources, including levies
on produce, farmer subscriptions and fees, and land taxes to cover part of the public extension
expenditures.
21.   MOA, through the NAETF, will establish and supervise the PASDF and appoint a manager. The
NAETF would prepare and finalize the operating policies of PASDF, prepare a standardized contract
format for contracts between advisors and farmers, and the selection criteria for the agricultural advisors.
For these purposes, MOA is receiving Technical Assistance from EU (Phare).
22.   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)2 will assist the NAETF in implementation aspects related
to procurement, loan disbursement, accounting, monitoring and evaluation, as well as administrative
support.
B. Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
23.   Agreements relevant to this component to be reached at negotiations between the Borrower and
the implementing agencies under the MOA are as follows:
(a)    The GOE will provide sufficient funding to the MOA, including its NAETF, to cover
incremental operating costs associated with this project component. These costs cover
expenses for field trips, meetings and planning workshops, accommodation and per diems,
administration, logistics and other operational requirements to support the implementation
of the advisory services project component.
(b)    That by effectiveness, MOA will have appointed all the staff and members of the NAETF
to ensure adequate participation and consultation and establish county-level steering
committees, all with TORs, and to the satisfaction of the Bank.
(c)    As a condition of disbursement, the Borrower will present to the Bank a standardized
contract format for agricultural advisory services, and the selection criteria for
2     Terms of reference of the PIU are-presented in Annex 5. This PIU reports to the Inter-Ministerial Project Steering
Committee.



PIP 3
Page 10 of 18
agricultural advisors to be eligible for PASDF, both satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)    By March 30, 1996, MOA would establish the PASDF and appoint the manager of
PASDF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Role of the Bank During Supervision
24.   The advisory services component will be supervised by Bank personnel (or designated consultants)
in accordance with the proposed supervision plan summarized in Section III (F) of the Staff Appraisal
Report.
m. Implementation Plan
A. Timebound Schedules
25.   Key timing for major and key activities of this component are as indicated in the procurement
plan, as shown in Table 3. The NAETF, once fully in place, will prepare a detailed operational plan
annually, indicating detailed steps and processes involved, including the various consultations required for
coordinating and implementing the overall activities.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
26.   For all items funded through the loan proceeds, GOE agrees that: (a) it would apply procurement
procedures which are consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January, 1995), and Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August, 1981) for procurement of Bank-financed goods and consultant's
services. Procurement of technical assistance, equipment, and consultants for various studies under parallel
co-financing arrangements would be carried out through tied procurement in accordance with procurement
regulations of the respective donor countries and the European Union. Table 2 summarizes the major
procurement packages of this component and their schedules. Procurement for Bank-financed activities
would be undertaken in the manner as described below:
(a)    Equipment-including materials (US $0.17 million). Procedures for International
Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (?NS) would be used for procurement of contracts
valued below US $300,000 and US $50,000 respectively. For IS, at least three quotations
would have to be obtained from two countries. NS procedures would be used for
procurement of office equipment and furniture. Contracts awarded under NS procedures
would be based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers.
(b)    Training (US $0.04 million). Consultants would be contracted to deliver training in
Participatory Rural Appraisal techniques. Hiring of these consultants would be in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August, 1981).
(c)    Studies (US $0.32 million). The Project would finance studies for agricultural advisory
services. Contracts are estimated to be small in size, for both extension material
development and distribution, and studies related to skill gap analysis.



PIP 3
Page 11 of 18
(d)     Agricultural Advisory Services (US $3.3 million).3  The Bank would partly finance the
employment of consultants (local and possibly some foreign experts) in connection with
the provision of private advisory services for priority programs on agricultural extension.
The beneficiaries of the agricultural advisory services would directly procure their own
private advisors using a standardized contract acceptable to the Bank. It is estimated that
about 2,800 annual advisory contracts would be submitted for reimbursement.
Table 3
Advisory Services Component
Summary of Major Procurement Packages and Schedules
Component                Est.     Proc.     Preparation of      Tender    Bid           Contract    Contract
Cost    Method    Bidding Docs.        Docs.      Submitted   Signed       Completion
USS                Month/year          Issued     mth/yr      mth/yr       mth/yr
M                                      mth/yr
Private Advisory         3.30     Cons.     Standardized        n.a.       n.a.         year        as per each
Services Development     a**/    Services   contract docs to                           round        conract
Fund (PASDF)                      (Direct)   be designed                                            less than 12
Nov-95 - Jan96                                         months
Extension tools          0.06     Cons.     yearly; over five    Jan.      Feb.         Mar.        Sept.
development (including            Services   years              each       each year   each year   each year
software packages)                                              year                                (latest)
Extension Materials      0.15     Cons.     yearly; over five    Jan.      Feb.         Mar.        Sept.
Development                       Services   years              each       each year   each year   each year
& Distribution                                                  year                                (latest)
Skill Gap Analysis       0.08     Cons.     Sept-97 - Oct-97    Oct-97    Nov-97        Dec-97      Mar-98
Services
Technical Assistance     0.48     N.B.F     May-95-June95       July-95    Aug-95      Nov-95       Dec-96
EU Phare
Demonstration Materials  0.17     LS &      yearly; over five    Jan.      Feb.         Mar.        various
(inc. small equipment)            NS        years               each       each year   each year   delivery
year                                dates
Misc. equipment &        0.45     N.B.F     over five years     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
materials
PRA techniques training   0.04    Cons.      Dec-95 &           Jan-96&    Feb-96&      Mar-96&     May-96&
(twice)                           services   Dec-96             Jan-97     Feb-97       Mar-97      May-97
Misc. Staff and Farmer    0.38    N.B.F     over five years     n.a        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Training
TOTAL                    5.11
a**/ Consisting of small contracts of about EEK 2,200 each.
3 Bank to Government contribution to PASDF, of which Bank would finance 800/o.



PIP 3
Page 12 of 18
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation
27.   A hierarchy of extension indicators will be used under the Project:
Input indicators
*     Inputs: Materials bought, equipment installed
Output indicators
Activities: Number of visits, meetings, demonstrations
Involvement: Farmers in contact with extension
Number of contracts financed through PASDF
Impact indicators
Opinion: Farmers giving opinion on extension's usefulness
IKnowledge Change: Changes in knowledge, attitudes and skills
Practice Change: Farmers adopting improved agricultural practices
Results: Changes in the standard of living of farmers
System Maintenance: Sustainability of advisory services
28.   The specific indicators will be developed by the NAETF with the assistance of the PIU's M&E
specialist. The NAETF would be responsible for the collection and analysis of M&E data.
Prerequisites
29.   To make indicators work, by making continuous and meaningful adjustments in content and
method of the advisory services, three prerequisites must be considered. First, the different categories
of farmers, with their farming systems, their constraints and their opportunities, must be known and
understood well. This requires the detailed assessment, described above. Second, on the basis of this
needs assessment, objectives need to be formulated in a participatory manner. Objectives should be
formulated in terms of changed behavior of different target groups, by the different target groups. Third,
extension managers must have the necessary technical and methodological knowledge and skills to make
it work.



PIP 3
Page 13 of 18
PROJECT INPUTS
Objective           Indicators                        Whose              How to find   How to present
responsibility    out            findings
Inputs       provide means to     - vehicles distributed            - NAETF,           - direct      - monthly staff reports
advisory services to   - equipment .tald  d           - extension . ff    observation   - physical, financial
transfer technology,   operational                    - PAU              time/abo       staudits
mobilize, and                                                            time/labor     -taudits
educate farmers     - technical assistance contracted                    films
- staff trained
PROJECT OUTPUTS
Objective      Indicators            Whose                How to find      How to present findings
responsibility      out
Activities      establish       - number of male and   - extension staff   - participant   - monthly, quarterly and annual
contact with    female farmers                             observation     reports
individuals,   contacted, visited,                                         - use of non-paper
groups and     trained               - farmers' union                      documentation, such as videos,
masses among   - number and type of   -       .  .                         slides
target         demonstrations given,  - traing istitutes                   - farmers' presentations of
audiences      attended                                                    extension activities at field days,
- mass media                                               study tours
produced, diffused,
viewed



PIP 3
Page 14 of 18
Involvement    develop multi-   - frequency,           - farmers' union      - semi-          - seasonal overviews of
directional     attendance of face-to-                      structured        attendance and background of
communication  face meetings           - producers' union    interviews       contacted farmers
with                                   - local authorities                    - trends in representativity of
representative    - rate of change,    - lo  authriier-casual                contacted farmers to whole of
numbers of all  attrition  among       - extension staff    observation       rural population to be presented
major                                  - NAETF                                in terms of income, farm size,
stakeholders    - trends in social                                            gender, and information poverty
status, leadership of
contacted farmers



PIP 3
Page 15 of 18
PROJECT IMPACT
Objective     Indicators                              Whose              How to find       How to present
l __________   ___________   ________________________________        responsibility      out              findings
Farmer         provide       - what is liked, not liked about content    - the farmers  - providing       - ongoing and
Opinion       farmers with  and methods, applied by different       themselves          farmers with     regular, covering all
advice that   advisors, with examples of advice       - monitoring unit   "voice"          seasons
resvonds to   actually being used profitably          - subcontracted    - participatory   - support for farmer-
their needs    - number, quality of contracts between  outsiders         monitoring        controlled media,
male and female farners and advisors,                      - participatory    reporting on their
ensure       including minimum background of those                       rural             appreciation of
accountabili  farmers (age, gender, farm size, farming                   assessments -     extension, but
v of          type, income) and advisors (generalists                    long term case    mindful of danger of
advisory      or specialist, languages used,                             studies           parochial interests
services to    demonstrations carried out,                               - beneficiary     among government
the farmers   communication skills, education level)                     assessments       agencies and large,
they serve    - number, type and income of farmers                                         "modern" farmers
who contributed to the costs of extension
- farmer evaluation of extension staff,
including proposals for promotions,
sanctions
Knowledge    assist          - extent and scope of changes in        - farmer and       - time-series     - reports on long-
Change        farmers in    knowledge and understanding of           producer           polls            term trends in
develo ins    biological, social, economic practice.  organizations      - long term case  knowledge, skills,
their         - changes in farmer attitudes, for      - monitoring units  studies          attitudes
knowledge,   instance towards sustainable cropping,   - specialized                        - university reports
skills,       animal treatment, or farming as a       NGOs                                 on human capacity
attitudes     competitive business                    - institutes for                     development for
- changes in farmer skills, including   social, educational                  agriculture
crop, livestock and range management    research                             - labor market
skills, and community organization                                           predictions for nrral
skills.                                                                      development



PIP 3
Page 16 of 18
Practice      assist        - adoption rates, including rationales for   - emerging   - direct         - long-term, annual
Change        farmers to    adoption and non-adoption              commodity          observation      reporting
use their    - categorization of adopters and non-  organizations      - retrospective    - import and export
improved     adopters                               - farmer and       reports by       statistics
knowledge,   - absence or presence of essential inputs,  producers' unions  farmers on  - auction reports
skills, and    markets                              - marketing        extension advice  - research station
attitudes to    - what practices did farmers change  boards            - time series    evaluations of
farm more   recently, as a result of extension, and  - monitoring units  covering       technologies
profitable   what did it do for them in terms of    - social           selected farm    available, know, and
and          productivity, risk, yield, costs, income or  marketeers   practices,       used
sustainable   welfare                               - polling          community         - NGO reports,
- replicability: the community's capacity  companies      dynamics         including media
to continue, expand extension services;                                    productions, on
and the extent of transfer of extension                                    rationales of adoption
tasks and responsibilities to private and                                  and non-adoption by
farming sectors, in particular of PASDF                                    particular farmer
and rural information centers.                                             categories
Results       alleviate     changes in:                            - farmer and       - income,        - advocacy reports
rural                                               producer           activities        -mdacmagso
perural      - access, affordability, relevance and use   organizations  surveys         - medlia carpagns on
po20l        of informnation                                                             nual life, urban
- profitability of selected farming    - rural advocacy    - focus group   migration, costs of
activities and of different types of farms   groups      interviews        food, etc.
as a whole                             - monitoring units                  - public relations
- income, poverty among different types   - taxation                       campaigns
of farmers                            information
- time use among male and female
farmers
- perceived and measured risks
- sustainability, particularly in relation to
water and land use
- quality of life among farmers and their
families, communities



PIP 3
Page 17 of 18
System mgt   create and    - a level playing field for different   - farmer           - direct         - extension
maintain     advisory services to operate           organizations      observation      roundtable
viable,      competitively, as evidenced by the     -                    . .            conferences
dynamic      quality and scope of competitive priority   - extension staff    - joint
institutions   program contracting, use and local   - MOF              seminars         reports
contributions to rual information
centers, or private advisory services  - WB staff         - use of
being totally self-financing.                             normative
- incentives and training of staff based                 assessments
on some formal skillgap analysis, in
which farmers have had a say; and
- a sustainable public contribution to
extension as evidenced for instance by:
allocating sufficient funds for public
extension (around 1% of AGDP);
providing sufficient operational funds (at
least 30 % of total expenditure, with no
more than 70 % for fixed expenditures,
including salaries); timely transfers of
funds (delays of more than 100/ are
disruptive); low staff attrition (less than
4% annually); or small differences
between budget and actual expenditure
(less than 10/o)



PIP 3
Page 18 of 18
RISK AND ENABLING FACTORS
Factor                Measure or source
Farmer Participation   - who participated: individual stakeholders, community organizations, or a new user group, to be formed under
the project;
- how did they participate, indicating mechanisms such as information sharing, consultation, joint assessments or
shared decision making, collaboration, or empowernent.
- did men and women participate to the same extent?
Clear, agreed upon    - objectives formulated in terms of expected results, as seen by different stake holders
objectives
- extent to which objectives are related to sectoral priorities
- extent to which objectives are related to local problems and opportunities
- extent to which objectives are based on a logical framework
- extent to which objectives give a sense of priorities: non-controversial things to do now, versus controversial
or ambiguous things to do later
Sufficient            - an extension task force of 5-6 full-time men and women, adequately trained, equipped and mobile.
implementation
capacity



PIP 4
Page 1 of 8
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
FOOD QUALITY CONTROL AND VETERINARY LABORATORY COMPONENT
1. The Component
A. Objectives
1.    The objective of the project component is to improve food quality and livestock quality standards
to protect consumers and increase exports of food and livestock products. The project would support: (a)
improvement of the National Veterinary Control Laboratory to control the quality livestock products and
foodstuffs of animal origin for domestic and export markets; and (b) training for the operations of the food
quality and veterinary control facility. The project would therefore provide Bank financing for the
purchase of modem laboratory equipment and instruments and the necessary training for the State
Veterinary Department in connection with the acquisition of this equipment, with specific objectives to:
(a)   set up a national program for the monitoring of contaminants and harmful residues in
animal products and foodstuffs of animal origin;
(b)   improve veterinary control of infectious diseases, and ultimately the health safety features
of foodstuffs of animal origin, in order to penetrate export markets and protect the health
of foreign and domestic consumers.
2.    This component are complemented by donor-funded parallel projects (partly ongoing) which
provide technical assistance and training programs for developing food legislation, and institutional
strengthening for the establishment and operations of modem food quality control facilities.
B. Component Description
Background
3.    Currently, GOE plans to ensure rapid establishment of internationally accepted food quality control
and standards in Estonia to meet both intemational and EU standards. At present, existing facilities are
inadequately equipped. The State Veterinary Department depends on foreign laboratories for certain tests
on residues and contamination. Since these tests must be taken at regular and frequent intervals, and
results made available quickly for regular monitoring, the present situation is a constraint to the
development of the local meat and food industry. Although Estonia has received export quotas and
preferential tariff reductions on a number of food and animal products, because of the lack of
internationally required food testing capability, export markets to EU countries remain inaccessible.
4.    Legal Aspects. The State Veterinary Department is an independent unit under the administration
of the Ministry of Agriculture. While the organization of the veterinary service and veterinary control is



PIP 4
Page 2 of 8
prescribed in the Law on Veterinary Service, the Food Law specifies that the control of the quality of
foodstuffs is conducted by several agencies including the National Grain Board, the State Veterinary
Department, the National Health Board, the National Board on Standards, and National Customs. In
accordance with the present rules prescribed under the Law on Veterinary Service, veterinary control
covers aspects related to the quality of meat, meat products, milk, milk products, eggs, fish, honey and
bee products, raw hides, wool and feather. Given the importance of the livestock sub-sector, this mandate
represents a critical support to the overall development of the sub-sector.
5.    Organization and Functions. The existing network of veterinary control consists of 15 County
Laboratories and the National Veterinary Control Laboratory. County Laboratories are mandated to carry
out basic biochemical, microbiological and serological tests to diagnose diseases, primarily of livestock,
fowl and fish. These laboratories also establish the quality of animal products and foodstuffs of animal
origin by means of chemical and microbiological analyses. Furthermore, the Veterinary Control
Laboratory is mandated with the following main functions:
(a)   full diagnostic examinations of animal, poultry, fish and bee diseases;
(b)    chemical, physical, microbiological, organoleptic and toxicological analyses of animal
products and foodstuffs of animal origin, feed and feed components, including evaluation
of their quality on the basis of these analyses;
(c)    methodological guidance on diagnostics and procurement of relevant diagnostics supplies
for County Laboratories;
(d)    examination and analysis of epizootological situation.
6.    Present Constraints.  To date, the present quality of animal products and foodstuffs of animal
origin is assessed to a large extent on the methods prescribed under the GOST system of the former Soviet
Union. Chemical and biological quality standards have been introduced in recent years in Estonia for
milk, milk products and meat products. However, in a transition economy and as Estonia pursues an open
market system, present standards need to be aligned with internationally accepted standards, including
methods for establishing and monitoring compliance of these standards. For example, in the context of
the trade agreement between Estonia and the European Union, EU standards require that for Estonian
exports of animal products and foodstuffs into the EU, the content of various contaminants and potentially
harmful residues must be ascertained. In addition, a program for monitoring and evaluation of these
contaminants must be established and institutionalized in Estonia. Present facilities and their personnel
are not equipped and trained to meet these international requirements. A number of guidelines will need
to be established, especially those concerning: (a) the use of veterinary medicines; (b) instructions for
testing animal products and foodstuffs of animal origin; (c) a system for sampling and transportation of
samples; (d) a list of contaminants, their descriptions and methods for establishing their occurrence; and
(e) instructions for dealing with cases where established limits for contaminants are exceeded.
7.    Inaccessible Markets. As a result of the present inadequacy of the State Veterinary Department
to meet the food quality testing requirements of the EU, potential export markets for certain products
covered under the trade agreement cannot be realized. Although, the food quality of certain products
would meet the EU standards, Estonia lacks the means of verifying this claim to serve as legal proof of



PIP 4
Page 3 of 8
evidence. Potential market opportunities include 60% tariff reductions on agricultural products shown in
Table 1.
Table 1
Trade Agreement between Estonia and The European Union
Food Items with 60% Reduction on Tariffs
(metric tons)
ITEMS                                  1995       1996       1997      TOTAL
Bacon                                    800       900       1,000     2,700
Chicken meat                             400       450        500       1,350
Skimmed milk powder                    1,000      1,250      1,500     3,750
Butter                                   700       750        300       1,750
Cheese                                   700       750        300       1,750
Sausages and similar products            400       450        500       1,350
Food Quality and Veterinary Laboratory Equipment
8.    The project provides funding for the acquisition of modern laboratory equipment for the
improvement and development of the National Veterinary Control Laboratory, to support the main
functions of this laboratory, particularly in the area of testing and control of contaminants and residues,
as well as the diagnosis of diseases. This acquisition would be packaged to include major items as shown
indicatively below:
(i)    Atomic absorption spectrometer
(ii)   Gas chromatograph
(iii)   Microwave for sample preparation
(iv)   Somatic sample counters
(v)    Colony counters
(vi)   Multi-purpose centrifuge
(vii)  Analytical balances
(viii)  Cryoscope
(ix)   Automatic Viscubator
(x)   Incubators
(xi)   Sterilization equipment
(xii)  Water filters



PIP 4
Page 4 of 8
(xiii) Microscopes
(xiv)  Computers and software
(xv)   UV detector
(xvi)  and many more small equipment.
9.    A complete list of equipment will be compiled by the end of 1995, and their specifications
prepared. Although an indicative list of equipment has been prepared, this list will require some updating
to fit with actual requirements, taking into consideration the inventory of availability and condition of
some of this equipment.
Training
10.   In the context of the planned acquisition of new and modem equipment, the project will provide
funding for training the staff, technicians and scientists of the National Veterinary Control Laboratory for
the operations and maintenance of the equipment. Training on modem methods for detecting and
measuring contaminants and residues are planned for about 6 persons for a duration of up to 3 months
each. It is anticipated that the overall training program will be spread out over a year, and scheduled
appropriately in line with the schedule of deliveries of the new equipment.
Technical Assistance
11.   Parallel projects already committed and funded separately by bilateral sources include: (a)
assistance from Denmark (Danish Ministry of Agriculture) for developing the legislative framework for
the quality of animal products; and (b) assistance from Finland for the development of monitoring and
evaluation procedures related to food quality control and testing.



PIP 4
Page 5 of 8
C. Financing Plan'
12.    The financing plan for this project component is as shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2
Food Quality Control and Veterinary Laboratory Component
Financing Plan
US $ '000
Expenditure Accounts                         Government   World Bank   Total
Laboratory Equipment                                        1,092          1,092
Training                                                      192            192
Recurrent Costs                               697                            697
TOTAL                                         697           1,284           1,981
II. Implementation Arrangements
A. Organizations Responsible for the Component
13.    The agency responsible for the overall implementation of this project component is the State
Veterinary Department. However, day-to-day operational and technical aspects are delegated to the
National Veterinary Control Laboratory which will receive all equipment financed under the project.
14.    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)2 will assist in aspects related to procurement, loan
disbursement, accounting, monitoring and evaluation, as well as administrative support.
Detailed cost presented in Table 7 of Annex 6. Disbursement aspects are described in Section 11 (G) of the Staff
Appraisal Report.
2   Terms of reference of the PII are presented in Annex 5. This PIU reports to the Inter-Ministerial Project Steering
Committee.



PIP 4
Page 6 of 8
B. Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
15.   Agreements to be reached at negotiations between the Borrower and the implementing agencies
are as follows:
(a)    The GOE will provide sufficient funding to the State Veterinary Department and the
National Veterinary Laboratory to cover incremental operating costs associated with this
project component. These costs include expenses for administration, operations and
maintenance, and adequate staffing.
C. Role of the Bank During Supervision
16.   The food quality control and veterinary laboratory component will be supervised by Bank
personnel (or designated consultants) in accordance with the proposed supervision plan summarized in
Section III (F) of the Staff Appraisal Report.
III. Implementation Plan
A. Timebound Schedules
17.   This project component, consisting of equipment acquisition and related training, is intended to
be completed under the loan within a period of one year, and no later than 18 months from the project
start-up date. Schedules of events under parallel donor activities are determined separately by individual
donors. Basically, timelines to be monitored, are those relating to procurement packages described below,
with timing shown in Table 2.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
18.   For all items funded through the loan proceeds, GOE agrees that: (a) it would apply procurement
procedures which are consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January, 1995), and Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as ExecutingAgency (August, 1981) for procurement of Bank-financed goods and consultant's
services, and (b) that progress reports prepared by Government would include monitoring of the
procurement process of the various aggregate amounts and ceilings. Procurement of technical assistance,
equipment, and consultants for various studies under parallel co-financing arrangements would be carried
out through tied procurement in accordance with procurement regulations of the respective donor
countries. Table 2 summarizes the major procurement packages of this component and their schedules.
Procurement for Bank-financed activities would be undertaken in the manner as described below:
(a)   Equipment (US $1.1 million). Laboratory equipment would be procured in two or three
packages in accordance with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures of the
World Bank. When appropriate, the entire equipment would be grouped into a package
to save administrative costs and gain benefits from economy of scale. The Borrower



PIP 4
Page 7 of 8
would use Bank's Standard Bidding Documents as applicable. The application of domestic
preferences would be in accordance with the requirements under Appendix 2 of the
Bank's Guidelines. for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995),
and expressed clearly in the bidding documents for goods.
(b)     Training (US $0.2 million). Consultants would be contracted to carry out the training
program as identified under the project. Hiring of consultants would be in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August, 1981).
Table 2
Food Quality Control and Veterinary Laboratory Component
Summary of Major Procurement Packages and Schedules
Component             Est.    Proc.     Preparation of    Tender    Bid         Contract    Contract
Cost    Method   Bidding Docs.      Docs.    Submitted   Signed      Completion
US$               Month/year        Issued    mth/yr     mth/yr      mth/yr
M                                   mth/yr
Laboratory Equipment   1.1    ICB3      Oct-95 - Dec 95    Feb-96    Apr-96     July-96    Dec-96
Training b            0.2     Cons.    Mar-96 - Apr-96    June-96   Aug-96      Oct-96     Aug-97
Services
TOTAL                 1.3
a in two or three packages of related equipment
b depending on the speed of deliveries and installation of equipment. the training program may start a few months earlier.



PIP 4
Page 8 of 8
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Key Development Indicators
19.   Key development indicators include the following:
Food quality and diagnostic tests conducted in accordance with international standards
Monitoring is in place, and reports on contaminants and residues regularly compiled and
sent to appropriate authorities including those of the European Union
B. Key Progress Indicators
20.   Physical:
*     Equipment procured according to planned schedules
Equipment delivered, and installed
Staff, technicians and scientists are trained timely
Equipment utilization once installed and personnel trained
21.   Institutional:
*     Operations and maintenance procedures in place
-     Monitoring program for livestock diseases in operation
-     Annual reports on food and livestock quality accepted by EU
22.   Economic Imgact:
Export trends under EU trade agreement for food items with 60% reduction in tariffs.



IBRD 27129
22 23-                                                           N5 25>                                                           25                               or                               2r
No,,,C,,,,   A_2AI,        ,                         ..                                                                 t
ESTONIA
AGRICULTURE PROJECT                                                                TALLINN                                           hta-
-'t    ~~~~~~~~ x ~~~~                Rakv ere 
o Selected Towns                   Ma,n Roods                                                            HA '
0    County Headquarters           Railroads                                                                                                                                                     IDA-
*    National Capitol               County Boundaries                                                                                                  V/RU
Urban Areas        --      -  International Boundaries
National Porks                                                               /                                                      r
sP Kardla                          ILAANE                                                 7. ,J
0
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Paide /                                                          ./
HIUMAAA                                                            RAPLA 
5i6geva
N                                               DU
Seal              7-                                       k1~J                                   ~         ,    /       l                  O    E/ X/. 
J \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARNU 0,, jV  "\1> 
Suorenroot                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VILJANDJ   >e
.TARTU
SAARE- -                                                            I. i                          VTd.                            .       Tartu
P&nu ~~~~~~~iiand                                                        K 
Pdrn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.
FKuressaare                                                     -,
POLVA\
so.                                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~'V\\.~~~~~~~~~7 ~~VALGAPla
Elesations in Meters:
51 - 150 
151 -250                                                                                                                               _ ir
S  > 250                                 A-        l       *   SI '  rLoOts ra0  0    20   30   50   50
LATVIA
LATVIA                                              .                                                                                           '-'-
77-                               2r                                 21.                                752                                                   6U             O                                  2r
08/01/1995    lm       IP213p41Cbn      u j35_____









IMAGING
Report No:     14954 EE
Type: SAR



