                                   Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                    ReportNo.: 29561




               PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                             REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA

                            AGRICULTURE PROJECT
                                   (LOAN 3983)


                                   June 28,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Estonian Kroon (EEK)

1996                      US$l.OO               12.034 EEK
1997                      US$l.OO               13.882 EEK
1998                      US$1.oo               14.074 EEK
1999                      US$l.OO               14.678 EEK
2000                      US$l.OO               16.969 EEK
2001                      US$l.OO               17.478 EEK
2002                      US$1.oo               16.612 EEK


Abbreviations and Acronyms

AICC              Agriculture Information Coordination Centre
ARAE              Association o f Rural Advisors inEstonia
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
C A U             Contract Administration Unit
ECA               Europe and Central Asia Region
ERC               Estonia Environmental ResearchCenter
ERR              Economic Rate o f Return
ES               Evaluation Summary
EU               European Union
EU-PHARE EU's Assistance Program to Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
GOE               Government o f Estonia
ICR              ImplementationCompletion Report
L W A            Land and Water Association
M O A            Estonia Ministryo f Agriculture
MOE              Estonia Ministry o f Environment
MOF              Estonia Ministry o f Finance
NAETF            NationalAgriculture ExtensionTask Force
NLB              EstoniaNational LandBoard
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PASDF            Private Advisory Services Development Fund
PIU              Project ImplementationUnit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PSC              Project Steering Committee
RIC              Rural Information Center
SAR              StaffAppraisal Report

Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1-December 31


Director-General, OperationsEvaluation                 : Mr. GregoryK.Ingram
Director, OperationsEvaluationDepartment               : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager,OEDST                                          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr. ChristopherD.Gerrard

                                                                 1


I       OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independence in evaluation.                    I
  About this Report
         The Operations Evaluation Departmentassesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
  first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
  expected results, and second, to help develop improveddirections,policies, and proceduresthroughthe disseminationof
  lessons drawn from experience.As partof this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof the Bank's lending
  operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are innovative,large, or complex;
  those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank
  management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate importantlessons.The projects,topics,
  and analytical approachesselected for assessment support larger evaluationstudies.
         A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
  (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
  examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
  onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
  information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
         Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
  PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
 to the borrower for review: the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
  Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
        The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
 approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
 and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
        Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
 development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
 (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
 Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
        Susfainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
        lnsfifufional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
 make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
 definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
 alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
 arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
 ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
        Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
 implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
 operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
 quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
 development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         ...
                                                                        111



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ...............................................................................................................       v

Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................      v..
Preface   ..............................................................................................................................        v11

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1 Backgroundand OverallOutcome
 .                                                              ............................................................................      1

         Background.............................................................................................................. 1
         Summary Assessment of the Overall Outcome ........................................................                                       2
2 ProjectComponents
 .                                     ....................................................................................................       3

3 ProjectImplementation
 .                                           ..............................................................................................       5

4.  Ratings:OverallOutcome                        ..........................................................................................      7

         Relevance: Were theproject's objectives right in the light of currentpriorities?..7
         Efjcacy: Did theproject achieve its stated objectives? ..........................................                                        9
                    LandReform.................................................................................................                   9
                    FarmDrainageRehabilitation                          ...................................................................      10
                    LandUse Management                      ..............................................................................       11
                    Agricultural Advisory Services.................................................................                              11
                    FoodQuality Control andVeterinary Laboratory                                         ..................................... 13
                    Achievement of OverallProject Objectives                                   ..............................................    13
         Eficiency: Was theproject cost-effective? ............................................................                                 17
5 Ratings:InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact and Sustainability
 .                                                                                                                 ............................ 19

         Institutional Development Impact .........................................................................                             19
         Sustainability..........................................................................................................               21

                    Sustainability with Respectto the FiveProject Components                                                 ...................-21
                    Sustainability with Respectto the Overall Objectives                                         .............................. 22
6 Ratings:Bankand Borrower Performance
 .                                                                             ............................................................     23

         Bank Performance .................................................................................................                     23
         Borrower Performance .......................................................................................... 24



This reportwas preparedby Terry Scott and HartleyFurtan(Consultants) under the supervision ofChristopher
D.Gerrard(Task Manager). who assessedthe projectin September2003 The reportwas edited by William
Hurlbut. and Rose Gachinaprovidedadministrativesupport                         .                   .

                                                                  iv


7. Lessons...................................................................................... ..................................25
Annex A. BasicData Sheet            ..............................................................................................  27

                                                              V



PrincipalRatings
                                            ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR

0utcome                           Highly Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability                    Highly Likely                  Highly Likely                      Likely
Institutional Development        Substantial                     Substantial                        High
Impact
Bank Performance                 Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
*The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperational divisionofthe Bank.The ICR Review is
an intermediate OperationsEvaluationDepartment(OED)productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings o fthe ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
Project                          Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/                  Country Director
                                                                   Sector Director
 Appraisal                     Brian Berman                   Geoffrey Fox                      Basil Kavalsky
 Completion                    Gotz Schreiber                 Laura Tuck                        Roger Grawe


                                                 vii


Preface

         This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) assesses a World Bank loanto
the Republic ofEstonia for an Agriculture Project (Loan 3983).

         The loanwas approved by the Bank's ExecutiveBoardon March5, 1996, became
effective on March 4, 1997, and closed on June 30,2002. Not including beneficiary
contributions, the total project cost was US$22.2 million, of which 51 percent was financed
by the Bank, 47 percent by the Government ofEstonia, and2 percent bythe EuropeanUnion
(EU)  9




         At the request ofthe Government, the World Bank loanwas denominated inGerman
marks (DM22 million), since the Estonian Kroon was peggedto the German mark. The
42 percent depreciation o f the German mark (from 1.385 DM/US$ at appraisal to 1.961at
closing) reducedthe total cost o f the project inU.S. dollars from US$27.1 million to
US$22.2 million, even though the actual project costs inGerman marks exceeded appraisal
estimates by 7 percent because o f significantly greater government contributions to the food
quality control and veterinary laboratory component, Compared to the initial commitment o f
US$ 15.3 million, the Bank's actual disbursementswere US$ 11.3 million.

         The Agriculture Project was the first Bank-supported agricultural project inEstonia
and among the first generation o f agricultural investment(as opposed to adjustment) projects
inthe ECA region, The projectwas aninnovativeprojectinanumberofareas suchas public
support for the development o f a private agricultural extension system. OED selectedthe
project for a PPAR inorder to confirm the numerous achievements highlighted inthe
ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) and to discern bestpractices that couldbe applied
inother countries inthe ECA region. ThePPARhas paidparticular attention to the
agricultural advisory services and farm drainage rehabilitation components o fthe project.

        This PPAR has beenpreparedby Terry Scott and Hartley Furtan(consultants) under
the supervision of Chris Gerrard (OED task manager). Itis based, among other things, upon
the ICR, the StaffAppraisal Report (SAR), the loan agreement, a World Bank Country Study
for Estonia, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Estonia, discussions with World
Bank staff inWashington, D.C., and a mission to Estonia in September2003.

        InEstonia, the consultants interviewedgovernment officials, policy strategists and
program administrators from the Ministries o f Agriculture, Environment, and Finance. The
consultants also met with non-governmental organizations which handled specific program
delivery responsibilities; with beneficiaries o f farm drainage rehabilitation and agricultural
advisory services; and with operators o f the food, veterinary and environmental laboratories.

        OED gratefully acknowledges the full cooperation o f all government officials visited
and consulted during the mission. Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was
sent to the borrower for comments before it was finalized. No comments were received.


                                                  ix


 Summary

          The overall objectives of the Estonia Agricultural Project were to increaserural
 incomes and to stimulate the rural economy through rural entrepreneurship.To achieve these
 objectives, the project focused on improving the total factor productivity and competitiveness
 o f the agricultural sector - as the largest source o f income inthe rural areas -by providing
 assistance for (1) the privatization o f agricultural land, (2) the privatization and rehabilitation
 o f farm drainage systems, (3) the introductiono f new farming technologies consistent with
private agricultural production, (4) the improvement o f humanresource and entrepreneurial
 skills, and (5) the improvement in food quality. Relativeto these objectives and to the
objectives o f these project components, the overall outcome o f the project i s highly
satisfactory. This overall rating i s based on ratings o f high for relevance, high for efficacy,
and substantial for efficiency.

         Project objectives were highly relevant given the depressed state of Estonia's rural
economy, the ongoing reform o fthe agricultural policy framework, and the desire for
entrepreneurial revitalization inthe transition to a market economy. Given the many factors
that influence agriculturalproductivity, the government's decision to pursuethe project's
objectives through several related components was sound, although this increased the
project's complexity. Simultaneous progress ina number o f areas was necessary to achieve
the desiredimpacts onrural incomes and entrepreneurship.

         The project substantially achieved its objectives ineach component, thereby
contributing to the achievement o f the overall project objectives. Inland reform, a geodetic
network was completed and excellent progress was made insurveying and registering land in
a moderncadastre, thus facilitating the operation o f a private land market and enabling
Estonian farmers to make better use o f credit markets. Major progress was made in
rehabilitatingdrainage systems to bring unutilized fertile land into production. Extension
services were established, including a network o f private sector advisors, inorder to
strengthen the businessand farm management skills o f Estonian farmers. Laboratory
equipment and training of food and veterinary laboratory staffhave helpedEstonian
laboratories achieve EUaccreditation, thereby opening new market opportunities and raising
agricultural incomes by increasing exports.

         The project's outcomes were generally achieved efficiently, with the ERR for the
overall project expectedto exceed 10percent by a considerable margin. However, some
uncertainty regarding the economic returnto the direct investmentsindrainage rehabilitation
(about one-third of project expenditures) leads to an overall rating o f substantial rather than
high for efficiency. A more in-depthbenefidcost analysis than either the Implementation
Completion Report or OED were able to conduct would be neededto determine more
conclusively the precise rate o f returnto these particular investments.

     Experience with this project confirms a number o f OED lessons:

(1) Effective operationallinkages between relatedproject components help improveproject
     outcomes. The aim o f the farm drainage rehabilitation component was to bring flooded
     land back into farm production. Inaddition, drainage rehabilitation was also used
     successfully to promote privatization by requiring recipients o f drainage assistanceto

                                                X



    cross-complywith the privatizationobjectivesunder landreform.Farmershadto buy or
     signlong-termlease agreements on state-ownedlandinthe drainage area andhadto
    accept responsibilityfor future drainage costs. Settingthese conditions establisheda
    "give andtake" approachwhich ensuredthat farmers bothcontributedand were
    committedto the drainageobjectives andto the privatizationobjectivesunder land
    reform. This servedto advance morethanone objectivewith the same investmentof
    resourcesunder the project.

(2) A private sector delivery systemfor extensionservices can be an effective alternative to
    public sector delivery,provided that there are appropriate incentives,firtancia1
    controls, and auditprocedures. The circumstances inEstoniamade it desirable to deliver
    agricultural advisory servicesthrougha privatedelivery system. Knowledgerequirements
    were highduringthe economic transition, meetingthese requirementswas urgent, andthe
    informationand advice requiredwere very diverse. Privatedelivery (i) allowedswift
    implementation, (ii) avoidedthe futurecosts of havingto dismantle a public delivery
    system after havingmet transitionrequirements, (iii) contributedto developinga base of
    private sector expertiseto meetthe long-termaim of havingthe marketprovidecertain
    extensionserviceson a user-paybasis, (iv) recognizedthe private sector's capacity for
    providinga diversity of extensionexpertise, and (v) respectedthe preferencesof farmers
    for less governmentinvolvement intheir businessaffairs. The project demonstrates that a
    privatedelivery system is a workable alternative whenthere are appropriate incentives
    andcontrols inplaceto preventprogramabuse. This alternative can beparticularly
    valuable insituationswhere public sector delivery has shortcomingsrelativeto the
    objectives to be achievedor to the environment for deliveringthe extensionservices.

(3) In identifying projectsfor developmentassistance,the Bank shouldpay closeattention
    to those where the borrower is likely to take strong ownership, responsibility and
   control of theproject, becausesuch conditionscontribute significantly to achieving
   positiveproject outcomes. The EstonianAgricultureProject i s an excellent example
   where the borrowerpossesseda strong desire to own the projectfrom the beginningto
   the end. This contributedgreatly to aprojectlikely to generate highlypositive benefits
   for the Estonianagriculturalandrural economies. Basedon the Estoniaexample,
   indicatorsto look for inidentifyinga borrower likely to take andmaintainownershipand
   responsibility include(i) a strong sense ofpolicy directionwhen enteringinto discussions
   with the Bank; (ii) already taking steps within its meanstoward realizationof the policy
   direction; and (ii) exhibitinga desire to disengage from the Bank's assistanceas soonas
   possible.Eachofthese indicatorswere very muchinevidencewith respectto the Estonia
   project.




                                                                   GregoryK.Ingram
                                                                   Director-General
                                                                   OperationsEvaluation

                                                 1


 1.       Backgroundand Overall Outcome

 BACKGROUND

 1.1      The Republic of Estoniahada populationof 1.36 million and GDP per capita of
 US$4,100 in2001. The largest contributor to Estonia's GDP i s manufacturing at 18.9
 percent o f total GDP, followed by transportation and communications at 16.1 percent, retail
 and wholesale trade at 14.8 percent, and real estate, renting, and businessactivities at 11.3
 percent. Agriculture, hunting, and forestry combined account for 5.4 percent o f Estonia's
 GDP.'

 1.2     Estoniaproclaimed its independence from the Soviet Unionin 1991,which beganthe
 transition to a market economy after fifty years of operating under a centrally planned
 system. This has requiredconsiderable economic adjustment, includingthe overhaul o f
 public and private sector institutions and a wide-ranging re-allocation o f physical and human
 resources.

 1.3     The agricultural sector has faced one o fthe most demanding adjustments to a market
economy. Duringthe Soviet era, agriculturalproductionwas organized into 350 large-scale
 state and collective farms, each cultivating about 3,500 ha and employing about 300 persons.
Estoniabecame an exporter of livestock products basedon the import o f inexpensivefeed
grains from other parts o f the Soviet Union. After Estoniagained independence, these
inexpensivefeed grains were no longer available to its livestock subsector. Also, government
supports of various kinds were removed. Agricultural output fell by 50 percent inthe 1990s.
The number of cattle on Estonianfarms fell by 60 percent andhog numbers declined by two-
thirds between1990and 1998.

 1.4     Additional problems faced by the Estonianagricultural sector were the Soviet
impositiono f import tariffs, EUtrade barriers which restricted access to western European
markets, and declining domestic demand for livestock products due to low consumer
incomes inEstonia. The restitutiono f farmland to the pre-1940 owners and their heirs also
had far-reaching implications for the ownership o f land and the structure o f agricultural
production-resultinginthe break-up of the 350 state and collective farms into a much larger
number of small-scale productionunits.

1.5     While the restitutionandprivatizationo f farmland was a vital step toward
establishing an agricultural market economy based on private ownership o f land, this resulted
inthe first instanceinthe proliferation ofsmall landholdingsthat were neither efficient nor
viable as stand-alone productionunits. At loan appraisal inJune 1995, after the restitution
and break-up had occurred, the farm structure inEstoniaconsisted o f 3,500 multiple-owner
companies, cooperatives, and partnerships which held70 percent o f the farm land; 10-15
thousand private family farms averaging 24 hectares insize which held 17 percent o fthe
farmland; and 130 thousand plots averaging 1.7 hectares which heldthe remainder of the
farm land. At appraisal, the Government of Estoniaexpected the number o f private family



1, Source: Statistical Office o f Estonia

                                                   2


 farms to increase as individuals continued the process o f withdrawing their land from the
 3,500 multiple-owner enterprises.

 1.6     Notwithstanding the decline indairy and livestock productionthat had occurred after
 independence, at project appraisal the government viewed dairy and livestock production as
 offering the greatest potential comparative advantage for building and sustaining an
 agricultural industryinEstonia. The crop sector would focus on supplyingthe necessaryfeed
 grain inputs. Targeting the livestock and dairy sectors as the most likely areas uponwhich to
 builda competitive andviable industrywas an appropriate decision, given Estonia's northern
 climate and the susceptibility o f Estonian farm land to flooding. Relativeto other crops,
 forage andpasture for livestock better withstand flooding impacts.

 1.7     Developing a livestock-based agricultural market economy requiredsubstantially
 different public sector policies andprograms from the Soviet era. Inthe first halfofthe
 1990s, the government had begunto respond inareas such as agricultural research and
 extension, farm finance, and the privatizationo f agro-processing activities. However, the
 government's fiscal resources were inadequate to meet the needs o f the agricultural sector,
 giventhe enormous overall budgetary demands onthe government resultingfrom the
 transition to a market economy. Therefore, the government approached the World Bank for
 support, which ultimately ledto the Agriculture Project.

 SUMMARY ASSESSMENTTHE OVERALL OUTCOME
                           OF

 1.8     The overall objectives ofthe project were to increase rural incomes andto stimulate
the rural economy through ruralentrepreneurship.To achieve these objectives, the project
 focused on improving the total factor productivity and competitiveness o f the agricultural
 sector -as the largest source of income inthe rural areas -by providing assistance for (1) the
privatization o f agricultural land, (2) the privatization and rehabilitation o f farm drainage
systems, (3) the introduction o fnew farming technologies consistent with private agricultural
production, (4) the improvement o f humanresource and entrepreneurial skills, and (5) the
improvement infood quality. Relative to these objectives and to the objectives o f these
project components, the overaI1outcome o fthe project i s highly satisfactory. This overall
rating i s based on ratings o f highfor relevance, highfor efficacy, and substantial for
efficiency discussed ingreater detail insubsequent sections of this report.

 1.9     Project objectives were highly relevant giventhe depressedstate o f Estonia's rural
economy, the ongoing reform o f the agricultural policy framework, and the desire for
entrepreneurial revitalizationinthe transitionto a market economy. Giventhe many factors
that influence agricultural productivity, the government's decisionto pursuethe project's
objectives through several related components was a sound one, althoughthis increased the
project's complexity. Simultaneous progress ina number o f areas was necessary to achieve
the desiredimpacts onrural incomes and entrepreneurship.

1 .lo    The project substantially achieved its objectives ineach component, thereby
contributingto the achievement o f the overall project objectives. Inland reform, a geodetic
network was completed and excellent progress was made insurveying and registering land in
a modern cadastre, thus facilitating the operation o f a private land market. With a private
land market, Estoniafarmers couId make better use o f credit markets and enjoy the

                                                     3


 incentives o f ownership, both of which contribute to entrepreneurship and increased incomes.
 Major progress was made inrehabilitatingdrainage systems to bring unutilized fertile land
 into production. The addition o f this landto the productionbase directly improved income
 potential. Extensionservices were established, including a network of private sector advisors,
 to strengthen the business acumen and technical skills of Estonian farmers, therebypreparing
 them better for an agricultural systemwhere success dependsuponentrepreneurshipand
 making farm management decisions which reduce productioncosts and increase market
 returns. Laboratory equipment and training o f food and veterinary laboratory have helped
 Estonianlaboratories achieve EUaccreditation, thereby opening new market opportunities
 and raising agricultural incomes by increasing exports.

 1.11    The project's outcomes were generally achieved efficiently, with the ERRfor the
 overall project expected to exceed 10percent by a considerable margin. However, some
uncertainty regarding the economic returnto the direct investmentsindrainage rehabilitation
 (about one-third o f project expenditures) leads to an overall rating o f substantial rather than
high for efficiency. A more in-depthbenefitlcost analysis than either the Implementation
 CompletionReport or OED were able to conduct would be neededto determinemore
conclusivelythe precise rate of returnto these particular investments.

2.       ProjectComponents

2.1      The project pursuedits broadobjectives o f increasing rural incomes and stimulating
rural entrepreneurship through sub-objectives ineach o f five major components (actual costs
for each component, not including beneficiary contributions, shown inparentheses):

    0    Land reform-to achieve privatization of agricultural lands (US$2.61 million)
    0    Farm drainage rehabilitation -to rehabilitate and privatize selected rural
         infrastructure (US$7.15 million)
    0    Land use management-to promote environmentally sustainable agricultural
         production, focused particularly on drainage areas (US$ 0.66 million)
    0    Agricultural advisory services -to improve humanresource skills and utilize new
         farming technologies (US$4.57 million)
         Food quality control and veterinary laboratory -to improve food quality and
         safety and to protect the health o f livestock (US$ 6.99 million)
    0    Project management(US$0.21 million).'

2.2      The landreform component aimed to acceleratethe development of aprivate land
market by completingthe national geodetic network, conducting land surveys and cadastre
registration, and financing a rural landdisposal study. These were critical to achieving
agricultural entrepreneurshipand improvedrural incomes. By owning their land, farmers
would have an incentiveto investintheir operations and the ability to offer their land as
collateral to obtain mortgage loans to make the investments, leading ultimately to higher
farm incomes. Landreform would also hastenthe consolidation o f land into viable
productionunits,which was requiredinorder to reduce costs and improve incomes.



2. Estonia Agriculture Project,Implementation Completion Report, December 24,2002, p. 26.

                                                  4


2.3     The farm drainage rehabilitation component was intendedto restore drainage systems
whose maintenance had beenneglected for many years, as a result o f which, fertile farm land
had gone out o fproduction. Restoringthese systems would bring land back into production,
raise agricultural productivity and boost agricultural incomes. Keys to this component were
bothphysical rehabilitation andprivatizationo f the drainage systems through land and water
associations (LWAs). The LWAs would assume responsibilityfor operation and maintenance
as well as future rehabilitation. Research programs at the Institute o f Water Management at
the Agriculture Universitywould also be restructured and aimedat reducingthe operation
and maintenance costs o f drainage systems inorder to maximize the contribution of the
drainage systemsto improving the incomes o f farmers within the drainage areas.

2.4     The landuse management component was closely tied to farm drainage rehabilitation.
This included awetlands study to assist inprioritizingdrainage projects, environmental
monitoring o f drainage sites, and environmental studiesto determine alternative land use for
certain lands undergoing drainage. While this particular project component was not directly
tied to project objectives o f improving rural incomes and entrepreneurship, it was very
important to achieving a sustainable agriculture, inorder to sustain income gains achieved by
the project.

2.5     The agricultural advisory services component aimed at providing the advice and
information agricultural producers neededinorder to operate effectively ina market
environment. This was tied to the overall project objectives through the impact that better
human resource skills, knowledge, and information would have on the efficiency o f farm
management decisions. With appropriate skills, knowledge and information farmers would
be betterprepared to operate as effective entrepreneurs,to minimize productioncosts, to
manage the risks o f a market economy, and to increase their economic returns. The
agricultural advisory services component had three subcomponents.

    0   The first subcomponent dealt withthe most viable farm businesses. Private extension
        advisors were contracted to provide advice and informationto these farmers. A
        Private Advisory Services DevelopmentFund(PASDF) was set up under the project
        to assist farmers inpayingprivate advisors for their services. The assistancewas
        available only to producers contracting with advisors who were certified by the
        MOA. The strategic aim was to initiate a private advisory system and convince
        farmers o f the value o f utilizing and paying for its services. Over a period o f years the
        subsidy would bephased out, hopefully leaving a viable private advisory network
        basedon farmers' willingness to pay for the services.

        The second subcomponent of advisory services consisted ofpublic extension,
       targeted at a "middle category" o f farms, viewed as needingmore general information
        and advice inorder to become viable (e.g., improvement o f productionpractices). The
       planwas to fundthis subcomponent o f advisory services from public resources on an
       ongoing basis.

       The third subcomponent of advisory services was to strengthenthe capacity ofRural
       InformationCenters (RICs) to assist non-viable farmers to obtain alternative
       employment. This activity would also be publicly funded on an ongoing basis.

                                                  5


 2.6    The food quality control andveterinary laboratory component aimed to improve food
 quality and safety, to protect the health of livestock, and to obtain EUaccreditation o f
 Estonian state laboratories inorder to access EUmarkets. Without export markets and
 without the ability to assure Estonia's domestic consumers o f safe food products, the returns
 to other projects investments would be less. This component set out to implementreliable
 monitoring and testing to ensure food quality and safety and to monitor and detect livestock
 disease. The project assistedthe purchase o f new lab equipment to test for food contaminants
 and livestock disease, as well as training o f laboratory staff inuse of the new equipment.

 2.7    During negotiationo fthe World Bank loan, consideration was givento including a
 farm credit component inthe project. A credit component would have provided funds for
 farmers to investinmachinery, equipment, and livestock. Such an initiative might also have
 accelerated development o f farm mortgage lending inEstonia. The government (particularly
the MOF) felt that other factors ofproductionandvarious policy andprograminstitutions
were more important to develop andthat farm mortgage lendingwould not develop properly
without attending first to these other factors and institutions (e.g. landreform and human
resource capabilities). Therefore, a credit component was not included as part o f the project.

3.      Project Implementation

3.1     Project management was carried out under the broad direction o f a Project Steering
Committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture (MOA), with key members drawn from the
MinistriesofAgriculture, Environment, and Finance, andfrom municipalities and farm
organizations. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) withinthe M O A reported to the Project
Steering Committee and coordinated the line agencies responsible for delivering the various
project components. Inthe beginning, the PIUwas essentially an expanded version o f the
implementationunit for EU-PHARE -the EU's assistanceprogram for Central Europe and
the Baltic Countries -which was already inplace at the start ofthe World Bank project.

3.2     The M O A LandAmelioration Unitand regional Amelioration Bureaus deliveredthe
drainage rehabilitation component, incoordinationwith MOE. Rehabilitationwork focused
on main channels, collector drains, and pipe outlets for drainage projects that met program
selection criteria. Inorder to receive assistance, farmers inthe drainage area hadto set up a
land and water association (LWA). The L W A had to contribute "in-kind" an amount equal to
20 percent o f the cost o f the rehabilitationand then assume future rehabilitationcosts as well
as the operation and maintenance costs for the system. Inthe case of state-owned agricultural
land inthe drainage area, farmers had to buy or sign long-term lease agreements before
drainage rehabilitationwould commence under the project.

3.3     The MOA implementedthe agriculturaladvisory services component, with initial
participation o f a stakeholder-basedNational Agricultural ExtensionTask Force (NAETF).
TheNAETFlater became an informal advisory committee. The PASDF was delivered
through M O A county extension offices. The M O A operated a certification system for private
sector advisors. The Association o f RuralAdvisors inEstonia (ARAE) handled professional
development requirements for the advisors. The Farmers' Federation deliveredsome o fthe
public extension services under the project, such as group advisory meetings andpublication
of an agriculturalmagazine. An Agricultural InformationCoordination Centre (AICC) was

                                                      6


 connected to RICs through an internet informationnetwork and enabled MOA to transfer
 informationto various locations inrural Estonia.

 3.4       The delivery of some extension services throughprivate agricultural advisors was an
 innovative element o f the project. The approach adopted was a publicly subsidized and
 privately deliveredservice, unlike the more traditional experience with World Bank projects
 that have promotedpublic provisiono f agricultural extension. Key to the initiative was a
 network o f private advisors capable o fproviding a range o f specialized advice tailored to the
 individual needs o f the most viable farmers. The PASDF provided a subsidy for farmers to
 use private advisors to acquire productionand business management advice. The intentwas
 to stimulate a market for private advisory services. To ensure advisors had the necessary
 competencies, the M O A requiredcertificationas a conditiono f receiving the subsidy. The
 M O A prepared framework contracts with private advisors which included a zero rate o f
 value added tax on the services.

 3.5       Eachadvisor and farmer negotiated the specific advisory services to be transacted,
 baseduponthe particular needs o f the farmer. The advisor thendrafted a contract for
 provision o f the services, which was reviewedby county officers to ensure that the farmer,
 the advisor, andthe services were eligible for the subsidy.Once the services were provided,
 the advisor submittedareport, signedby the farmer, outlining the services supplied. The
 farmer paid the advisor directly for that portion o f the cost the farmer was requiredto pay.
 The advisor then submittedan invoice for the remainder ofthe cost, along withthe report on
 services provided, to a county officer who would then check with the farmer to ensure that
 services had beenprovided as indicatedinthe report. When indoubt, the officer would visit
the farmer inthe field. After verification was complete, the State Treasury paidthe invoiced
 amount directly to the advisor for the services renderedq3      The M O A requiredfield checks on
about 5 to 10percent o f the contracts as part o f its annual internaIaudit. This audit resultedin
a number o f farmers beingdisqualified from future participation and ina number o f advisors
losing their certification and ability to participate inthe PASDF subsidy.

3.6       The State Veterinary Department withinMOA administered the food quality and
veterinary laboratory component activities o f the project. Deliveryinvolved equipment
installationand training at the central laboratory inTartu and at regional and specialized
laboratories at various locations inEstonia.

3.7       The MOE was responsible for ensuringthat environmental requirements were met for
all project activities. This included coordination with MOA, environmental screening o f
drainage projects, and provision o f informationto producers on sound environmental
practices. The EstoniaNational Land Board (NLB), which i s part o fthe MOE, deliveredthe
land reform component o f the project. This included completion of the geodetic network,
cadastral mapping and registration, contracting for survey work, and coordination with Title
Book Offices. Private surveyors were contracted through the Contract Administration Unit
(CAU) o fNLBto complete the surveyingrequiredfor registeringland inthe cadastre.

   ~




3. Recentchanges havebeenmade to the method o f payment so that the farmer paysthe entire amount o f the
costs o f advisoryservices and is thenreimbursedthroughthe program.However, duringthe periodo f the WB
project,the subsidywas actuallypaiddirectlyto the privatesector advisor, with the farmer therefore receiving
the subsidy indirectly through reducedfees.

                                                     7


 4.       Ratings: Overall Outcome

 RELEVANCE:      WERE THE PROJECT'S OBJECTIVESRIGHT INTHE LIGHT OF CURRENT
 PRIORITIES?

 4.1      The project is rated highinterms of relevance. The two main objectives -to increase
 rural incomes and to stimulate the rural economy through rural entrepreneurship-remain
 highly relevant inrelationto current priorities and strategies o f the Government o f Estonia
 and the World Bank, these havingremained fundamentally unchanged since the preparation
 o f the project.

 4.2     The government aimed to build aproductive and competitive agriculture sector in
 order to enhance incomes inrural Estonia. Acceleration o f land reform, rehabilitatingrural
 infrastructure, developing an effective and efficient agricultural advisory service, and
 meeting EUfood quality standards are all important contributors to agriculturalproductivity
 and competitiveness. Hence, the project i s highly relevant to government objectives.

 4.3     The project is also highly relevant inrelationto the Bank's 1993 country study and
 1994 CAS for Estonia. The overarching goal o f the CAS was to relieve pockets o fpoverty
 associatedwith Estonia's transitionto a market economy, and the 1993 country study had
determinedthat to addresspoverty inrural Estonia, it was necessaryto reestablishthe
incentives and institutionsnecessary for rational economic decision making, both at the level
o f the producer and marketing enterprises. That requiredtransparent and tradable property
rights, privatizationo f a major share o fthe agriculturalland, andthe establishment o f
competitive markets andtrading system^.^

4.4      The CAS also highlightedthe needfor public infrastructure investment,the
development o f private sector leadership, and public services to support an agricultural
industry basedonprivate enterprise as fundamental ingredients of Estonia's long-term
economic strength and sustainability. Rehabilitatingdrainage systems contributed to the
public infrastructure objectives o fthe CAS, Promotingrural entrepreneurshipthroughthe
agricultural advisory services and privatizing rural lands through land reform and drainage
rehabilitation supported the private sector agriculture envisioned inthe CAS, Investing in
food and veterinary laboratories, public extension services, land surveying and registration,
and environmental controls were all among the public services identifiedinthe CAS to
support Estonian farmers inan environment governed by rational economic decision-making,

4.5      Agriculture emerged as a pocket o fpoverty inEstonia duringthe transition. The
project addressedthis poverty problem through a sector-wide strategy, reflecting the fact that
poverty was an overall issue during the transitionperiod and not a concern restricted solely to
a disadvantaged subset o f the agricultural population. The sector-wide approach was the most
likely approach to succeedinlifting significant numbers o f ruralEstonians out of poverty on
a sustainable basis. Inadditionto the approach taken, the project also addressedthe needs o f
farmers facing a greater degree of poverty than the norm inthe industry. Farmers who lacked
potential for economic viability due to inadequate resources and/or skills were provided


4. Estonia - The Transition to a Market Economy, March 31, 1993, p. XXV.

                                                       8


 counseling and advice inrelationto alternative job opportunities through the Rural
 InformationCenters (under the agricultural advisory services component). This however was
 a relatively small part of overall project efforts.

 4.6       While the project's focus on improving the productivity and competitiveness ofthe
 agricultural sector was appropriate inEstonia's transitional situation, considerable segments
 o f the rural population inEstonia remain inpoor economic circumstances. The extent o f the
 adjustment required can be deduced from the sheer magnitude of the transitiontaking place
 inagriculture and from a few selectedeconomic indicators. The share ofEstonia's working
 populationemployedinagriculture and hunting dropped from 16.6 percent in 1990to 8.0
 percent in 1996 to 5.1 percent in2001. The actual number o f persons employed inagriculture
 and hunting fell more than 75 percentfrom 136,800 in 1990 to 31,600 in2001.Total rural
 employment fell from 243,000 to 178,500 over the same periods5While the secondary and
 service sectors have employed a substantial number o f the displaced rural workforce, the
 rural unemploymentrate has exceeded 10 percent for almost all o f the last five years and was
 nearly 15 percent for two o f those years.6Wages inagriculture remainless than two-thirds o f
 the average Estonianwage. Only 15percent ofruralresidents hadsecondarypluspost-
 secondary education as of 2001, compared with 28 percent o f urban residents.

 4.7      Although the project is highly relevant to the objective of improvingrural incomes
 and stimulating the rural economy through rural entrepreneurshipduring the transition
period, the question o f income distribution within the agriculture sector received relatively
 little attention within the context of the project. There was no specific monitoring o f the
project's impact on rural income distribution.'

4.8       A final point regarding the relevance ofthe project relates to the government's
objective o fjoining the European Union. On the one hand, some of the initiatives undertaken
inthe projecthave assistedEstonia's preparations for EUaccession. Onthe other hand,
Estonianfarmers will now become part o f the Common Agricultural Policy, which entails a
degree o f market protectioninrelationto world prices o f agriculturalproducts. The World
Bank's view on this issue has beenthat supporting improvements inagriculturalproductivity
inorder to maximizethe cost-effective utilizationofacountry's agriculturalresources is a
desirable objective inand o f itself regardless o f the price regime, andthat aligning domestic
prices with the Common Agricultural Policy is, inany event, a moving target. Therefore,
joining the Common Agricultural Policy does not detract from the project's relevance, as
long as the project i s enhancing the cost-effective utilization o f Estonia's agricultural
resources, given the new price regime.




5. EstoniaMinistry o f Agriculture, Agriculture and Rural Development, Overview 2002103, p. 128.
6. EstoniaMinistryo f Agriculture, Agriculture and Rural Development, Overview 2002103, pp. 20, 123, 125.
7. For a more thorough discussion ofthe manner in which povertyis and is not addressed in Europeand Central
Asia projectsofthe World Bank, see, JohnHeath,Agriculture Policy Reform in the ECA TransitionEconomies,
1991-2002, 2003, pp. 17-18(OED Working Paper Series).

                                                   9


 EFFICACY:DIDTHE PROJECTACHIEVE ITSSTATEDOBJECTIVES?

 4.9      This section has six subsections-one section corresponding to eachofthe five
 project components and the sixth section assessingthe overall efficacy o fthe project. The
 approach taken to assessing the project's efficacy i s first to assess to extentto which each
 project component achieved its objectives and thento assess how these achievements
 contributed to the achievement o f the overall project objectives, recognizingthe linkages
 betweenthe individual components and overall objectives describedinprevious sections of
 this PPAR.

 4.10    The project is rated highwith respect to overall efficacy. The objectives were fully
 met, or metwith only minor shortcomings, inall project components. This is commendable
 considering the scope and diversity o fthe project. The combined effect o f the various project
 components contributed toward the overall project objectives o f improving rural incomes and
 stimulatingthe rural economy through rural entrepreneurship.

 Land Reform

 4.11    With respect to land reform, the objective was to privatize agricultural lands by
 accelerating development o f a landmarket that would facilitate (1) landrestitution and
privatization, (2) the use o f land for collateral for mortgage lending, and (3) entry into and
 exit from farming.

4.12     A private landmarketrequires a land survey and registration system capable of
defining private property rights and recordingtransactions associatedwith land sales and
purchases. Mortgage lending requires a similar system to register security. Under the project,
the geodetic network was completed, and the cadastresurvey and registrationactivity
significantly surpassedappraisal targets at project completion- 169,943 ha. o f agricultural
land beingregistered inthe cadastre compared to the appraisal target o f 150,000 ha.
(Table 1). About 70 percent o f Estonia's total land area was registered inthe cadastre at
project completion. At the time o f the OED mission, it was reported that 75 percent o f all
land was registered, indicating continued progress toward completion o f a modern cadastre
system.

4.13     Despite the progress, specific barriers have delayed realizationo f full benefits. One
barrier i s the slow speedo f the land restitutionprocess. Not all individuals with restitution
rights have taken the necessarysteps to acquire their land, inpart to avoidpaying landtaxes.
Individuals with outstanding restitution entitlements have not beenstrongly encouraged
through specific restitutionpolicy incentives to complete land acquisition. Other individuals
who have acquired small holdings have not beenwilling to sell to larger holders o f land, due
partly to an anticipated increase inland prices with EUaccession. Small landholdings have
slowed the development o f a farmland mortgage market, because these holdings cannot
efficiently use the modernmachinery and equipmentpurchased with borrowedmoney.
Several individuals interviewedby the consultants described the interest o f commercial
banks inagriculture lending as quite low, other than for very large farm operations. Credit
initiatives throughthe government's Rural Development Foundationas well as leasing
arrangements have filled some o f the lending gap (these initiatives were not part o f the World
Bank project).

                                                     10


 Table 1.Indicatorsof Achievement for Project Component Objectives
   Project Component                              Projected at SAR             ActuaVEstimate at ICR
   Land Reform:
       Area registered in cadastre (ha.)                150,000                      169,943
 I Drainage Rehabilitation:                I                                I                         I
       Area rehabilitated (ha)                          60,000                       81,035
        LWAs (no.)                                        60                          104
 II     ~~~~
   Advisory Services:
       PASDF Contracts (no.)               I            10,000              I        13,572           I
       Farmers served (no.)                              5,000                       10,515
   Food Quality and Veterinaw:
I      Food samples analyzed (`000)        I             1,334              I         1,585           I
       Total analyses (`000)                             4,813                       5,876
       Accredited methods                                190                          180
I                                          I                                I                         I

   Source: Implementation Completion Report and Project Implementation Unit.


4.14        Inspite ofthe slowness inrealizingthe full benefitsof landreform, a solid land
policy and program infrastructure has beenlaid as a result o f the project. Without these
achievements a private land market would not be possible, inwhich case the incentives for
farmers to invest intheir businesses and the ability to borrow funds to investwould be
seriously curtailed. Without investmentincentives and borrowing ability, rural
entrepreneurship and incomes would be inhibited.Furthermore, income generating benefits
o f other project components would also be limited, because many o fthese cannot be realized
inthe absenceofinvestmentby farmbusinesses. A goodexample would beapplication ofa
newtechnology (e.g. better fertilizer placement) which requires capital investmentbythe
farm businessina new seeding system.

Farm DrainageRehabilitation

4.15        The objective o f farm drainage rehabilitationwas to rehabilitate andprivatize farm
drainage systems and, secondarily, to re-target research activities to support efficient
drainage systems. The objective was fully met. By project completion, drainage systems
containing 81,035 ha. were rehabilitated, surpassingthe appraisal target o f 60,000 ha.
(Table 1). The drainage component was directly responsible for bringing an additional 8,200
hectares o f agricultural land into production. This landproduces an estimated US$2.3
million o f additional gross income annually for rural Estoniabased on pre-project average
gross income per hectare for drainage area farm land. This represents a contribution to
improvingrural incomes inEstonia for farmers operating indrainage areas.

4.16        Privatization o f drainage systems was accomplished through a network o f 104 LWAs
(several new associations having beenestablished betweenproject completion and the OED
mission). LWAs have accepted responsibilityfor operation, maintenance, and future
rehabilitationo f drainage systems, indicating the emergence o f entrepreneurial attitudes on
the part ofEstonia's farmers. Foresight was usedindesigning the farm drainage
rehabilitation component ina way that would promote objectives o f other components o f the

                                                 11


project. Recipients o f assistance hadto comply with land reform objectives by purchasing
state land inthe drainage area or by leasing it on a long-term basis. This advanced the
privatizationobjective and contributed to bringing the additional land into production, thus
contributing to improved incomes.

Land Use Management

4.17     The objective ofthe landuse management component was to strengthen
environmental controls inagricultural production activities with a view toward minimizing
negative impacts of agricultural production on the environment. The objective was fully met.
A wetlands management strategy and studies to prioritize drainage projects for their
environmental benefits were completed. No major environmental problems came to the
consultants' attention inrelationto drainage projects. The Estonian EnvironmentalResearch
Centre (ERC) received equipmentto carry out the necessarytesting to ensure water safety.
The equipment for water testing and analysis received underthe project has enabled the ERC
to obtain EUaccreditation and thereby increase its commercial business.

AgriculturalAdvisory Services

4.18     The agricultural advisory services component was aimed at improving human
resource skills and the use of new farm technology and pursuedthis objective through
subcomponents (private advisory services, public extension, and Rural Information Centers)
focused on transfer o f technology; mobilizing and organizing farmers, rural groups and
communities; and building capacity to generate and transfer information. Objectives were
largely achieved.

4.19     Promoting the delivery o f agricultural extension through a system of private advisors
was an innovative aspect o f this component. These privately deliveredand, for the most part,
publicly funded services have made a substantial contribution. According to interviewees,
these private advisory services were instrumental in establishing more open attitudes on the
part o f commercially-oriented farmers toward using extension services. Prior to the project,
many o f the farmers with the most potential for commercial success were not inclined to seek
independentadvice, thinkingthat they hadlittleto gainfrom outside advice and counseling.
The private advisory services, encouraged bythe subsidy incentive providedby PASDF,
served to break down this attitudinal barrier.

4.20     The private advisory services were well utilized, as more than 13,500 contracts
betweenfarmers andprivate advisors were administered bythe completion ofthe project,
which exceededthe appraisal target of 10,000 (see Table 1). The shift infarmer attitudes
because o f the project can be demonstrated by comparing the number o f farmers now using
some form o f advisory services to the situation prior to the project. At the time o f the OED
mission, program administrators estimated that, post project, 250 to 300 farmers inHarju
County use advisory services compared to only 20 to 40 farmers prior to the project. The
contribution made by the project to this change infarmer attitudes regarding extension
services i s further evidencedby the highlevel o f satisfaction expressedby farmers with the
quality o f the services providedby the private sector advisors under the project. Inquality
control surveys, more than 85 percent o f the farmers surveyed expressedeither general or

                                                  12


 complete satisfaction with the private advisory services. These indicators suggest a strong
 impact on farm income, as farmers would not use the advisory service if such use failed to
 improve their bottom line income.

 4.21     The private advisory services have also made a significant contribution to the
 objective o f building capacity for the generation and transfer o f agricultural information and
 technology, including contributing to the rural entrepreneurship    - aprime objective ofthe
 project. Underthe PASDF, a network o f private sector advisors certified by the M O A was
 created with the ability to deliver knowledge and informationto farmers. While there were
 fewer advisors certified andparticipatinginthe subsidizedprogram at the endo fthe project
 than at the peak o f the project activity (69 advisors in2002 compared to 189 in 1997), many
 o f the advisors have takenjobs with agri-business where their capacity developed throughthe
 project certainly should prove beneficial for the agricultural sector. Other advisors continue
 to provide advice as independentconsultants to farmers but no longer through the subsidized
 program. These are positive outcomes, inlight o fthe project objective o f evolving toward a
 self-sustaining entrepreneurial private advisory services systempaid for by farmers using the
 services.

 4.22    Despitethe overall success ofprivate advisory services, certain funding decisions
 during the course o f the project probably impededthe transition to the entrepreneurial and
 user-pay system envisioned at the outset o fthe project. The original planwas to gradually
 reduce the PASDF subsidy by 10percentage points a year from 90 percent in 1996 to zero
 percent in2004, so that farmers would take full responsibilityfor paying for private advisory
 services by the latter date. This planned rate o f subsidy reductionwas not adhered to, falling
 by only 20 percentagepoints to 70 percent in2001, The reasongiven by government officials
 for not adhering to the planned reductionwas poor farm incomes during some years o f the
 project and a desire not to increase farmers' costs under these circumstances. Despite the
 subsidy beingmaintained at a higher level than planned, the number o f farmers utilizing the
 PASDF fell from a peak o f 2,894 in 1998 to 1,4 10 in2001.

 4.23    Giventhe factors that contributed to the decline inPASDF utilization, the decline is
 more likely a sign o f success than o f failure. Many farmers acquired a level o f skills and
 knowledge inearly years o f the PASDF and did not needassistanceinlater years. Other
 farmers were gradually increasing their use o f private advisory services outside ofPASDF.
 (Industry sources estimate 30 percent ofprivate advisory services inHarjuCounty are now
 obtained without subsidy.) The fact that Estonian farmers have become more self-reliant in
obtaining extension services and that many advisory services are now provided by rural
entrepreneurs without subsidy i s precisely what the project set out to accomplish. This has
clearly contributed to a key project objective, which perhaps could have beeneven more
progressive hadthe original schedule for subsidy reductionbeenimplementedas planned.

4.24     There have also been successes inthe public extension aspects o f agricultural
advisory services component. Interviewees highlighted better quality content inpublic
extension materials, increased use o f the internet to disseminate information, and increased
job and career planning capacity through Rural Information Centers as evidence o f positive
outcomes. The outcomes sought through the project have generally beenaccomplished.

                                                           13


 Food Quality Control and Veterinary Laboratory

 4.25     The food quality control andveterinary laboratory component objective was to
 improve food quality and safety and protect animal health, thereby meeting domestic
 consumer requirementsbut also meeting standards necessaryto access foreign markets.
 Equipmentpurchasesandtraining activities were completed and objectives were fully met.
 EUaccreditation ofstate laboratories was achieved, allowing Estoniato meet accession
 requirementsand sell to EUmarkets. The accomplishments inthis project component will
 contribute to entrepreneurial opportunity inthe food and livestock industriesthroughthe
 creation o f additional market opportunity. Work remains to be done within agro-processing
 facilities to consistently achieve the standards administered by the State Food and Veterinary
 Department, Completionof this work will assist inrealizing the full income-enhancing
 benefit o fthis component ofthe project.

 Achievement of OverallProjectObjectives

 4.26    To assess the achievement o f the overall project objectives, it is importantto
 understand the context o fthe project. A dramatic economic adjustment was occurring in
Estonia's agriculture sector prior to the project and continued to occur during the
 implementationo f the project. During the five years leading up to the project, which began in
 1997, crop production declinedby 14 percent, livestock production by 26 percent, and
overall gross agricultural by 21 percent (Table 2). Duringthe same time period, employment
inagriculture andhunting' declinedby 51percentandtotal ruralemployment by 15percent
(Table 3). Also noteworthy, the share o f agriculture inrural employment declinedfrom 44
percent in 1993 to 25 percent in 1997.

4.27     Judging the success of the project inimproving rural incomes and stimulatingthe
rural economy through rural entrepreneurshipunder such conditions o f change i s difficult,

Table 2. GrossAgriculturalOutput, 1993-1997 (at 1995 prices,EEK millions)
                                     1993           1994         1995           1996           1997          1993-97  I
  Crop Production                    3,116         2,641         2,847          2,725         2,669          - 14.4 %
  Livestock Production               3,820         3,315         3,120          2,864         2,836          - 25.8 %
  Gross Agr. Output                  6,936         5,957         5,968          5,589         5,506          - 20.6 %

Source: Statistical Office of Estonia

Table 3. Number of PeopleEmployedinRuralEstonia, 1993-1997 (annualaverage)
                                     1993          1994         1995           1996          1997        1993-1997
  Agriculture & Hunting             91,900         75,900       55,500        52,100        44,800         -- 14.7 %
                                                                                                             51.3 %
  Rural EmRlOYfnent                 207,500      201,100       177,500       176,200       177,100
F % r a l Employment                 44 %          38 %         31 %           30 %         25 %

Source: Statistical Office of Estonia



8. Hunting i s a very small factor inthe total agriculture and hunting statistics. For the purposes o f this analysis,
the agricultural and huntingfigure canbe consideredas agriculture employment.

                                                14


 particularly when the true value of the project is likely to register not immediatelybut over a
 numberof years. While one approach might be simply to determine whether the downward
 trends inagricultural output (as ameasureof gross income) were reversed during the period
 o f the project, this approach has obvious shortcomings. The Bank-supported Agriculture
 Project was only one factor, and maybe not even the most significant factor, affecting such
 aggregate indicators. Itwould be tenuous to credit the project with a turnaround inoutput
 trends or tojudge the project a failure ifthere were no turnaround to this point. For the same
 reasons, while agricultural and rural employment are indicators o f whether or not the rural
economy was stimulatedduring the period o fthe project, these are not particularly reliable
indicators o f whether the project itself succeededor failed incontributingto the desired
objective.

4.28     Despitethe limitations of drawing conclusions basedonthe trends inaggregate
agriculture and rural sector indicators over the project period, it i s worth noting from a
contextual perspective what did occur withrespect to these key aggregate indicators during
the project period. One keyindicator is agricultural sectorvalue addedinfixedprices (not
including value added industriesbasedon raw agriculturalproducts). This declined by
roughly 20 percent between 1997 and 2001from 4.4 percent o f GDP in 1997 to 3.O% in2001
(Table 4).


Table 4. Value Added for EstoniaAgriculture, 1997-2001(at 2000 prices)
                                     1997   1998       1999       2000       2001      1997-2001
  Value added by agriculture         3,029  2,908      2,681      2,683      2,433      - 19.7 %
  Percentage of total GDP            4.4 %  4.0 %      3.7 %      3.4 %     3.0 %

Source: Statistics Office of Estonia


4.29     Table 5 provides more detail about this decline inagriculture value added. Cultivated
land fell from 861,000 hectares in 1998 to 644,000 hectares in2001,while remaining at
about the same level in2002. While the numbersof cattle and poultry fell by 18 and 22
percent respectivelyover the time period, the numberso fpigs and sheep increased by 6 and
13 percent, respectively.

4.30     Table 6 shows that agricultural employment continued to decline duringthe project
period, although less dramatically than during the previous four years - a 30 percent decline
between1997 and 2001comparedto the 51percent between 1993 and 1997. Rural
employment actually increased marginally (by 0.8 percent) between 1997 and 2001,
compared to the 14.7 percent decline between 1993 and 1997. While the share of agriculture
intotal rural employment continuedto decline inrelationto secondary andtertiary
employment, the increase inoverall rural employment may be a sign that Estonia's rural
economy has finally gone through the worst o f the adjustment process to a market economy,
and i s experiencing a revival.

4.3 1    While these aggregate indicators paint a broad picture o f the direction o f agriculture
and rural Estonia, the key questions from the perspective o f this PPAR are what difference
didthe Bank's agriculture loanmade to this overall picture and what difference can the
project be expected to make going forward. Clearly, the project did not bring about an

                                                   15


 Table 5. SelectedAgriculture EconomicIndicatorsfor Estonia,1998-2002
                                      1998    1999     2000       2001     2002      1998-2002
  Cultivated Land (`000 ha.)           861    819      810        644       641       --25.6 %

 ICattle (`000 hd.)                    307    267      253        261       253         17.6 %
  Poultry (`000 hd.)                  2,636   2,462   2,366      2,295     2,091      -21.7%    I
  Pigs (`000 hd.)                      326    286      300        345       345       + 5.8 %
  Sheep & Goats (`000 hd.)             31      31       32         32       35       + 12.9 %

 Source: Statistics Office of Estonia


 Table 6. Agriculture and RuralEmploymentinEstonia,1997to 2001
                                      1997    1998     1999       2000     2001      1997-2001
  Agriculture & Hunting              44,800  43,500   38,200     31,500   31,600     - 29.5  %
  Rural Employment                   177,100 183,500  181,100    177,400  178,500     + 0.8 %
  % of Rural Employment                25      24       21         18       18

 Source: Statistics Office of Estonia


immediate turnaround inall the aggregate economic indicators. The rate o f decline in
agricultural productionand employment has slowed down, and rural employment has
actually reversed its downward spiral. While the project probably didcontribute to these
positive trends, the question o f magnitude of the project's influence remains.

4.32     The ICR attemptedto assess the role that the projectplayedinachieving project
objectives by looking specifically at how the project influencedfarm incomes inthe farm
drainage areas. To do so, the ICR identifiedwith and without project incomes and costs o f
production for the drainage areas. Ignoringthe efficiency side o f this equation, which i s the
subject o f the next section o fthis PPAR, a number of conclusions can be drawn regarding the
ICR analysis. First, the ICR identifies some increased income that can be attributed to the
project. This includes the US$2.3 million increase inannual gross income identified in
paragraph4.15 above for the farmers indrainage areas, both from increased land under crop
production and from increased crop yields inthe drainage area. The ICR estimated that net
farm income rose by 35 percent for a model dairy farm.

4.33     Itis safe to conclude, basedon areview ofthe ICRmethodology, that farm incomes
did increase significantly inthe drainage areas as a result of the combinedinfluence of the
various project components. However, except for the direct impact o f drainage rehabilitation
on the number o f hectares under cultivation, the ICR provides little discussion of how the
various project components individually or collectively contributed to increased yields or
lower costs, and thereby to increased gross and net farm incomes inthe drainage areas. While
the ICR correctly identifiesthe difficulty inisolatingthe impacts of individualproject
components, it does not follow through with a discussion o f how the project components
collectively influence yields and costs. Nevertheless, based on a review of historical yields in
Estonian agriculture undertaken by this PPAR, the projected increases inyields are

                                                      16


 reasonable. The yields seem within reach considering those achieved by Estonian farmers
 hi~torically.~

 4.34     Infocusing increased incomes inthe drainage areas, the ICRprovides avaluable
 estimate o f the income-enhancing effect o fthe project. As will be seen inthe discussion o f
 efficiency inthe next section, the ICR concludes that the rate o f returnto the investmentsin
the drainage areas alonejustifies the investmentsinthe entire project. However, it is
 important to be mindfulof the limitations of the ICR analysis. The analysis was performed
 on drainage areas only, which represent only about 10 percent o f Estonia's farmland. The
ICR made no attempt to quantify the project's impact on the 90 percent o f Estonia's farmland
which lies outside o f the drainage areas. The impact on this additional 90 percent i s
potentially much larger, inaggregate, ifnot on a per hectare basis.

4.35      Gross revenueper hectare was estimated inthe ICR to rise by 30 percent inthe
drainage areas, while net income was estimated to rise by 35 percent. While production
conditions outside o f drainage areas are different from withinthe drainage areas, ifnet
income rose by even 10 percent outside o f the drainage areas through the effect o f increased
yields and improvedmarket access brought about by the other components o fthe project
(land reform, advisory services, and better food safety and quality), this would represent a
tremendous effect on overall incomes. A 10percentincrease innet income per hectare on
573,500 hectares o f cultivated land outside o f drainage areas would increasenet farm income
by 155.1 million EEK or US$9.3 million annually. Adding this to the increasednetincome
o f 86.7 million EEK or US$ 5.2 million inthe drainage areas yields an overall increase innet
income o f US$ 14.5 million annually. A 10percent increase innet revenue per hectare in
non-drainage areas seems reasonable and probably conservative, based on increases innet
income per hectare projected for the drainage areas.

4.36     A shortcoming o fthe ICR is the assumption that the increased annual returnof
US$5.2 million canbe sustainedeveryyear for 25 years, without further incremental costs.
It is unlikelythat the benefits gained through other project components, includingthe
advisory services component, can be sustained on this basis. Knowledge, for example,
becomes obsolete over time as newproduction opportunities and problems confront farm
businessentrepreneurs.A depreciation index shouldbe applied to the incremental net income
projected inthe ICR both for the draining and non-drainage areas. Applying a five percent
straight-line annual depreciation rate beginningin2006 results ina presentvalue o f net
income benefits for drainage and non-drainage areas combined o f US$99.8 million."




9. Yields for many crops grown inEstoniawere generally higher prior to Estonia's transitionto a market
economy. Giventhe challengesassociatedwith transition, it may not be surprisingthat yields would fall for a
periodoftime. The challenge for the AgricultureProject was first to assist Estonian farmers to get backto the
yieldsthey once experiencedand thento continueto improveyields andproductivity.For details on longterm
crop yields, refer to StatisticalOffice ofEstonia.
10. This estimatedpresentvalue is also basedon a five percent real discount rateto reflectthe time value of
money.

                                                  17


 EFFICIENCY:     WASTHE PROJECTCOST-EFFECTIVE?

 4.37     The project is rated substantialinterms of efficiency. The ERRfor the project is
 expectedto exceedthe opportunity cost of capital. However, uncertainties about the
 economic returnto drainage investmentsspecifically, combined with the importance o f
 drainage inthe overall project (about one-third o f the project dollars), result ina substantial
 instead of high efficiency rating.

 4.38     The ICR's attempt to estimate the economic returnsto the project withinthe drainage
 areas i s commendable, given the difficulties associatedwith measuring and projecting
benefits from investments indrainage projects and from investmentsinother components o f
the project. A number ofvariables are difficult to predict and can alter the estimatedreturns
 considerably depending upon eachvariable's magnitude. An obvious shortcoming i s the lack
 o f data on investmentsmade by farmers themselves, which contribute to the returns, and their
 omissiontherefore causes too mucho fthe returnto be attributed to the project, thus pushing
 inthe directionofoverstatingprojectreturns.Lack ofdata also ledto the use ofcrop values
 instead o f livestock values inmeasuring incremental revenues from drainage. This
shortcoming pushes inthe direction o f understatingproject returns because the value added
to the livestock is not includedinthe analysis.

4.39     The criteria for selecting agricultural landto drain helpedensure that the drainage
initiatives offering the most favorable returnswere includedinthe project. Criteria included
land fertility, intensity of land use, favorability for drainage, and technical feasibility o f
rehabilitation. However, despite careful selection, the drainage component, inisolation o f the
impacts o f other project components, appears to offer relatively modest and uncertain
economic returns. Based on the ICR analysis, 8,200 newhectares were brought into
production through drainage rehabilitation. The gross revenue on drainage area land i s
estimated at US$282 per hectare. With production costs (variable costs) of US$120 per ha,
this produces value addedofUS$ 162per haor US$ 1.3 million annually on 8200 ha.
Allowing a 10percent yield improvement as suggested for most crops inthe ICR analysis
(which actually may be more a result o f agricultural extension than o f drainage), the
increased value added reaches US$1.5 million annually for the drainage component. The
project invested US$ 8.6 million indrainage rehabilitationactivity, an investmentwhich
reportedly mustbe repeated every 10 years. The benefidcost ratio, before discounting the
future benefitsand before considering operation andmaintenance costs, is already less than 2
to 1($15 million/$8.6 million). Based on operating and maintenance costs for drainage area
land obtained from the MOA, US$ 1.O million can be addedto the US$8.6 million cost o f
rehabilitation. This further squeezes the returnto the project's drainage investments.

4.40     Despitemodest returns from direct investmentsindrainage rehabilitation, the ERR
for the overall project should still be strong. Against incremental net income o f $99.8 million
inpresentvalue terms estimated inparagraph4.38 are project costs of$US 21.8 million ona
present value basis. This translates to a benefit/cost ratio o f 4.6 to 1.O or an internalrate o f
returnequal to 32 percent. This considerably exceedsthe 14.6percent ERRinthe ICRwhich
captured the benefits o f increased production from drained land, but excluded benefits
outside o f drainage areas.

                                                  18


 4.41    A still higher returnmight have beenachieved by investingrelatively more innon-
 drainage activity and it i s this factor which leads to the rating o f substantial for efficiency
 rather than the high rating which might seem to be impliedby the expectedstrong overall
 returnfor the project. Investments indevelopment ofhuman skills are likelyto produce very
 high returns given that many Estonian farmers were on the steep portion o f the learning curve
 where marginalreturns to learningare expectedto be high. Investmentsinthese areas may
 considerably exceed the somewhat modest returns to investmentindrainage activity.

 4.42    A further way ofviewing projectcost-effectiveness is to compare project
 expenditures to the number o f project beneficiaries and the economic value o f Estonia's
 agriculture sector. Expenditureamounts inrelationto the number o f beneficiaries andthe
 economic value o f agriculture are at best crude comparisons, meaningful only inthe context
 o fthe demands associated with the particular stage of development or transition o fthe
 agriculture sector itself. Clearly, the demands for policy and program infrastructure inland
reform, humanresource development, physical infrastructure and food safety and quality
were considerable and hadto be met ifEstoniawas to achieve a successful transition to a
market economy. Initial development of institutions, rejuvenation o f infrastructure, and
building o f humanresource capacity inevitably requiredlarge lump sum investments.

4.43     Considering the context, project expenditures do not appear excessive inrelationto
the size ofthe agriculture sector or inrelationto the number of individuals expectedto
benefitfrom the project. The US$22.2 million o ftotal project expenditures over five years is
only five percent o f the value of Estonia's agricultural output for just one year based on 2002
figures. Based on 31,600 persons employed inagriculture, the project expenditureso f
US$22.2 million amount to US$ 700 per person intotal over five years. This is a relatively
small public investment interms o f modern-day agriculture. Also, project outcomes will be
felt well beyond individuals employed directly inprimary agriculture. The influence o f
project investmentsinfood and veterinary laboratories extends into secondary sectors o f
agriculture. The food industry alone employs 15,200 people and accounts for 22 percent o f
Estonia's total industrial output basedon 2002 figures. Livestock-based food production,
whichis part ofthe food industrymost affected by the project, represents about one-half of
the food industry's output.

4.44     On a final point regarding cost effectiveness, no serious administrative problems
emerge as having created cost inefficiency inthe project. Delays inimplementationmay have
increased costs to some degree. Project preparation took longer than anticipated and land
reform activities failed to move ahead on schedule because o f tendering problems and initial
confusion about survey standards. However, these types o f problems did not greatly reduce
cost-effectiveness.

                                                 19


 5.      Ratings: InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact and
         Sustainability

 INSTITUTIONAL     DEVELOPMENT      IMPACT

 5.1     All components ofthe project hadkey institutionalobjectives. The project is ratedhigh
 for institutionaldevelopmentimpact.Itis expectedto make a critical contributionto the
 effective use o fhuman, financial and natural resources.

 5.2     Inlandreform, the project helpedestablishthe geodetic network andlandregistration
 systemnecessary to support a private landmarketas well as farm mortgage lending.Without
 these achievements under landreform the enabling environment would not exist to allow
 farmers to borrow effectivelyto invest for the purpose o f improvingproductivity; neither
 would necessary rules exist to facilitate land exchange necessary to consolidate farmland
 holdings andthereby improve resource use efficiency. Certain features of landrestitution
 policy have slowed consolidation, butthe framework for a landmarket establishedunderthe
 project is yielding strong short-term benefits, withprospects for generating greater benefits in
 the longterm. Inestablishingthe landsystem, the project also hadthe secondary benefitof
 assisting the development o f a private surveyingindustry.This promoted privatization-a
primary institutionalobjective o fthe project.

 5.3     Land and water associations (LWAs) were established to manage farmland drainage
system assets and to finance the operation, maintenance, and future rehabilitation o fthe
drainage systems. State land within drainage areas hadto be bought or leased by farmers on a
long-term basis as a requirement for receiving drainage assistance, thus further contributing
to private enterprise objectives. Some LWAs have become a focal point for community
planning, thus demonstrating their importance as an institution beyond their primary mandate
for drainage system management. The LWAs are a new structure inwhich farmers interact to
collectively plan and finance a shared input o f production.

5.4     Land use management createdguidingpolicies, strengthened environmental regulation,
and enhancedthe capacity o fthe EnvironmentalResearch Center inmonitoring andtesting for
water safety andquality around agricultural production sites. The policies andregulations
define the rules withinwhich individuals and organizations will be governed withrespectto
protectingthe environment andprovides checks andbalancesto ensure all resource use
interests have a voice indetermininghow resources are used. Skills have beendeveloped in
resource use management, specifically inprioritizingalternative resource investments,and
balancing on an equitable basis the competing interests relatingto natural resources.Research
efforts have beenre-oriented to support productionpractices which improve farm returns but
also which protect the environment and contribute to resource sustainability.

5.5     A certified, professional privatesector advisory networkto advise and supply
informationto farm businesses was developed underthe agricultural advisory services
component. This network represents a new system o f delivering a public service, inessence
defininga new systemof service exchange betweenadvisors andfarmers. Accountability and
transparency were effectively builtinto the subsidy administration associatedwiththe service.
The Association o fRuralAdvisors inEstonia (ARAE) serves the professional development

                                                 20


needs o f the agricultural advisors. This organization buildscapacity inits advisor membership
which contributes to the more efficient use o fhuman, financial andnatural resourcesthrough
sound advice offeredto farmers. Institutionalresults fell short on cost recovery o fprivate
advisory services, but this is regarded as a minor shortcoming for reasonsdescribed earlier in
thisreport. TheAgriculturalInformationCoordinating Center (AICC) andaninternet-based
 system for transferring informationto farmers are important institutional achievements. The
Center provides the hub for a systembasedonelectronic communication, providing farmers
witha systemofinteractionwithgovernment specialistsandotherswheretheycanacquire
basic informationefficiently and effectively. The Farmers Federationhas strengthened its role
inthe deliveryofpublic extensionservices, ineffect givingfarmers additional voice inthe
delivery o f a service o f significance to them and contributing to delivery transparency.

5.6      The agricultural advisory services component has resultedinfarmers becomingmore
receptive to usingextension services. Before the project, farmers are reported to have often
dismissedthe notionofreceiving advice and informationfrom extension service providers.
Thispractice has changedandmany farmers now actively seek extension services. Thenew
practice is expectedto make a substantial difference inthe efficiency of resource use because
farmers will have better knowledge upon which to base farm management decisions. The use
o fprivate sector advisors by the project at a time when farmers preferredless government
involvement intheir business affairs playedan important part inshiftingattitudes about the
worth o f extension servicesto farm profitability.

5.7      Theproject helpedstate laboratories improve food safety and livestock diseasetesting
andmonitoringandtherebystrengthenedvery critical institutions from the perspective of
international trade. The central M O A laboratory inTartuandregional laboratories received
modernequipment and staffreceivedtraining. This produced better capacity to monitor and
detect problems with food quality and safety andthe presenceo f diseaseinEstonia's livestock,
which inturnprovides transparency demandedby importers o fEstonia's agriculture and food
products and leadsto predictability o fmarkets for Estonianfarmers and food processing firms.
The project's contributionhelpedEstoniato achieve EUcertificationo fM O A state food and
veterinary laboratories, a major factor indefiningthe institutionalrelationship betweenEstonia
andEuropeanmarkets andallowing buyers and sellers to interact inthe marketplace. This in
turnaffects the efficiencywithwhichEstonia's agricultural resources canbeemployed.

5.8     On a general level, the project strengthenedM O A strategic planningcapabilities. This
contributes to the likelihood of government policies, programs and incentives inthe future
which will promote efficient and sustainable use o f agricultural resources.Involvement o f
agricultural stakeholdersinoverall guidance o fthe project helpedbuildstakeholder planning
capacity, promoted transparency and generally has servedto foster a democratic approach to
public policy makingandprogram implementation. International procurement expertise has
beendeveloped withinM O A as a result oftheproject andthis capacity has now beenapplied
inother areas ofgovernmentprocurement activity. Thisshould lowerprocurement costs, thus
allowing a more efficient use o fEstonia's resources.

5.9     The ratingofhighfor institutionaldevelopment impact is abovethat inthe ICR. The
project is heavily focused on institutionaldevelopment, with all components achieving
numerous very significant institutionalobjectives. Giventhe central role o f institutional
development inthe project, the ICR rating o f substantial for institutionaldevelopment impact

                                                  21


 seems at odds with the highly satisfactory rating the ICR grants for overall project outcome.
 The ICRcontains language such as "instrumental" and "remarkable" indescribing specific
 institutionalachievements." At the same time, no shortcomings are identifiedinthe ICR in
 relationto institutional objectives. The project warrants a rating o fhighwithrespectto
 achievements relatingto institutionaldevelopment.

 SUSTAIN ABILITY

 5.10    Sustainabilityis rated likely. EUaccessionwill contribute inat least two ways to
 sustainability. The first is through funding to continue specific project activities. Secondi s the
anticipated improvement infarm incomes following closer integration withthe EU,which will
enhance the ability o ffarmers to self-finance some o fthe activities initiated underthe project.
Aside from EUimpacts on sustainability, the government appears committedto activities
initiatedunderthe project and i s likely to ensure that gains achieved are not lost over time.
Despite the positive factors contributing to sustainability, an expectation ofthe project i s for
farmers to pay for future drainage systemrehabilitation and operation andmaintenance costs.
The sustainability ofthis particular aspectofthe project is questionable andinlight ofthis a
rating o flikely for sustainability is more realistic thanthe highly likely rating inthe ICR. The
following assessmentfocuses first onthe sustainability o fthe achievements o fthe five project
components, and secondon the sustainability ofthe gains relatingto the overall project
objectives o f improving rural incomes and stimulating the rural economy throughrural
entrepreneurship.

Sustainabilitywith Respect to the Five Project Components

5.1 1    The landreformachievements are expectedto continue on a sustainable basis. The
geodetic network and re-engineeringthe NationalLandBoardinto a modernday cadastre
entailed large up-front costs. Withthe systemnow beinginplace, maintenance andupgrading
should be manageable.Also, there is scope for some cost recovery ifpublic resources are not
available to finance ongoing costs. Technical expertise should be relatively easy to sustain; the
govemment i s committedto maintainingthe system; and stakeholders will demand
sustainability. Giventhe likelihood that the progress will be sustained, the impact ofthat
progress on rural income and rural entrepreneurshipare very likely sustainable.

5.12     Sustainability o fthe farm drainage rehabilitationactivities is less certain. Technical
expertise, environmental monitoring and control, as well as institutional support have
developed, and it is likely these will be sustained. LWAs have taken responsibility for
operation and maintenance of the area-specific drainage systems and, according to project
intent,are expectedto pay for requiredfuture rehabilitation ofthese systems.Intentions are
positive, which certainly bodes well for sustainability. Ongoing operation andmaintenance
costs for drainage systems are now beinghandledthroughmany LWAs. Nevertheless, the
financial resilience of drainage rehabilitation will not be known withmuch certainty until
rehabilitation work which mustbe paid for by LWA membersi s actually undertaken.This will
not happen for 10 years, at which time an estimated investment of 3000 to 3500 EEK (roughly
US$200) per ha. will be requiredo fproject beneficiaries.


11. Source:EstoniaAgricultureProject, ImplementationCompletionReport, December 24,2002, page 13.

                                                 22


 5.13     Thereis reasonto question the long-term financial resilience of drainage rehabilitation
 inthese circumstances. Agricultural producerswere notrequiredto contribute beyondin-kind
 resourcesto initial rehabilitation costs. The extento fproducers' willingness to contribute
 monetarily to rehabilitationhastherefore not beentested. Indiscussionswith at least one
 Estonian farmer, it was certainly not clear that drainage system investmentis a highpriority for
 producers' own resources.The producers' ability to pay for rehabilitation costs was seen by
 some interviewees as dependingvery muchuponhow well Estonian farmers do insidethe EU
 common agriculturalpolicy. Giventhe uncertain economic returns from drainage and the
 financial expectations of farmers whose resources may be limited, there is reason for concern
 about the sustainability o f the drainage work carried out under the project and its contribution
 to enhancedincomes for agricultural producers.

 5.14     Underthe agricultural advisory servicescomponent, there has beengoodprogressin
 development o ftechnical knowledge, buildingstakeholder ownership (e.g., Farmers'
Federation) andputtinginplace requiredinstitutionalsupports (e.g., private advisory network,
AICC, RICs). There also appearsto be a firm government commitment to advisory services, as
 evidenced bythe certification systemfor private advisors, the M O A role indelivery o f
services, andthe plans to negotiate EUfunding support for extension services. Iti s highly
likelythese positive sustainability factors will continue, thus extending project benefitswell
into the fbture. Interms o ffinancial resilience, ongoingEUsupport is probable andit is also
apparentproducers are willing to contribute at least some resourcestoward the purchase o f
extension services. Perhaps most important, it i s reported by extension specialists inEstonia
that farmers have adopted apositive attitude toward the learning process andto the value o f
extension services. An open mindtoward learningi s an extremely important determinant o f
whether gains inincome and rural entrepreneurship are sustained, particularly giventhat
knowledge and informationmust be continually upgradedto deal withnew challenges in
production, marketingand other areas of farm businessmanagement.

5.15      Within the food quality control andveterinary laboratory component, technical
expertise developed through traininginitiatives as well as ongoing capital equipment
replacement are highly likelyto continue into the future. Regularupgradeso f laboratory testing
and analysis equipmentand staffre-training will be required, which will involve costs. It is
highly likely the government will, one way or another, ensure financialresourcesare available,
since these activities are essentialto food safety and to EUaccreditation. This will serve to
sustain the income gains that have beenmade possible as a result o f better access to markets.

Sustainabilitywith Respectto the OverallObjectives

5.16     Taken together, with the exception o f the financial sustainability o f drainage activity,
the sustainability factors relatingto the various project components are generally positive,
meaningthat gains that have beenrealizedwith respect to incomes and rural
entrepreneurshipshould not be at significantrisk inthe future. The likelihood of
sustainability should be substantial. Inthe larger picture, EUaccession and participationin
the EUcommon agriculture policy will serve to solidify the expected income gains. Also of
note i s that the Estonianagriculture economy has restructured and downsized dramatically
since independence and i s now operating at a muchmore sustainable level o f production
baseduponthe quality of its agricultural resources and the realities o f a liberalizedeconomy.
Productionunits have consolidated rapidly as the land restitutionprocess has unfolded,

                                                 23


 resultinginmany efficient and competitive farm enterprises with good prospects for
 sustaining the income gains generatedby the project. There remains a good deal o f
 restructuring yet to occur to achieve the most economically resilient industrypossible, but
 Estonia has demonstrated its ability to absorb resources displaced by agriculture adjustment
 inother areas ofthe economy.

 6.       Ratings: Bank and Borrower Performance

 BANKPERFORMANCE

 6.1      TheBank's overall performance is ratedsatisfactory.

 6.2      Bank performance is rated satisfactory for overall quality at entry. Development
 objectives were realistic. The choice o f instrumentswas generally appropriate with good
 balance betweenpublic andprivate sector delivery. The Government o f Estonia was engaged
 inpreparationoftheproject and stakeholdergroups were consulted.

 6.3      Technical, economic and financial aspects were adequately assessed at the beginning o f
theproject. Environmental impacts were evaluatedandmeasurestakento deal withthem,
particularly with respect to drainage activity.

 6.4      Itis debatablewhether the Bankpaidadequateattentionto the various dimensions of
the poverty situation confronting ruralEstonia inpreparing andsupervising the project. In
broad terms, poverty reduction was addressedthrough a sector-wide strategy aimed at
improvingproductivity and competitiveness. The sector-wide approach taken was the correct
approachinthe circumstances, butmore attentionto the income distributionpattern within the
agricultural industrymight have improvedperformance v i s - h i s the Bank's overridingmission
o fpoverty reduction.

6.5      The Bank andthe government successfully identifiedinstitutions to assistinproject
implementation, including, for example, the landand water associations, the Agricultural
Information Coordinating Center, the Farmers' Federation, andthe Project Steering
Committee. Financial systemswere adequatelyprepared. Some frustration arose becauseof
prolongedproject negotiations, including some concern regarding an overly bureaucratic
approachby the Bank.However, the Bank's firmness at times ledto the right course o f action.

6.6      Bank performance is rated satisfactory for overall supervision during the project.
Regular supervision missions were conducted andtechnical review missions undertaken. The
Bank worked cooperatively inabusiness-likefashion to deal with problems as they arose, in
spite o f government concern at times about slowness o fthe Bank administration. Delays inthe
procurement processand inpayment disbursement by the Bankwere identifiedas problematic
on some occasions. The Bank i s credited by some government representatives for havingthe
wisdom to buildon what was already inmotion inEstonia rather than trying to radically
transform policies, programs and implementation vehicles. Plans were already inmotion in
areas suchas landreform, farm drainage, andagricultural extension prior to the project.
Overall, the Bank's level o ftechnical support to the project was adequate.

                                                24


 6.7     The ICRi s of sound quality andmakes a commendable effort to estimate expected
 returns to the projectbasedon the drainage areas. The ICR could have beenstrengthenedby
 clear discussion of how the various project componentscontribute individually or collectively
 to the projected increases ineconomic returns. Itwould also have beenvaluable to state more
 clearly the limitations o fthe estimation methodology, includingwhich benefits are included in
 the analysis versus those whichare not. Itis quite likely the overall project benefits
 considerably exceed the benefits actually capturedby the ICR analysis. Discussion of
 methodology limitations would have provided a better perspective withinwhichto view the
 ICR results.

 6.8     Duringthe OED mission to Estonia, government officials' respectandappreciation for
Bank staffwas evident, eventhough itwas apparentthere had at times beendifferences o f
views. The Bank's performance seemedparticularly appreciatedbythe government officials in
the later stages ofthe project andfor the provisionoftechnical expertiseto keeptheproject on
track. A project with as many successes as this one suggests solidperformance by all parties,
andthe performance o f Bank staffis no doubt one important reasonfor the project's success.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE

6.9      Borrower performance overall is rated satisfactory. The Borrower took responsibility
for preparation and implementation ofthe project andhas behavedina manner consistent with
achieving project objectives.

6.10     Inpreparing for theproject, the Borrowerworked effectively withthe Bank,
demonstrating a strong sense of Estonia's economic development priorities. Stakeholders were
engagedand efforts were made to set realistic objectives given economic, financial, and other
considerations.

6.11 During implementation, Borrowerperformance was also satisfactory. Some difficulties
arose with respectto inadequateresourcesfor the Contract Administration Unit of the National
LandBoard. There was a significant disruption inthe PIUwhenEUfhnding for the PIUended.
These matters were resolved anddidnot put at risk the achievement o fthe overall objectives.
Based on the success o fthe project, the Borrower succeeded inensuringthat competent staff
were inplace to manage, administer, coordinate, anddelivervarious project activities. The
Borrower also successfully involvedbeneficiaries inthe overall directiono fthe project and
involved numerous stakeholdersinprogram delivery.

6.12    No significant shortfalls came to the consultants' attention interms o fthe Borrower
failing to meet commitments underthe project. Minor shortfalls were apparently addressedina
spiritofcooperation andto the satisfaction ofthe Bank.Duringthe mission, the consultants
found government representativesto be professional, forthright, and highlymotivated and to
possess a satisfactory grasp o fthe workings and implications ofthe overall project.

                                               25


7.       Lessons

7.1      Experiencewith this projectconfirms a number of OED lessons:

(I)Effective operationallinkagesbetweenrelatedproject componentshelpsimprove
    project outcomes. The aim ofthe farm drainage rehabilitationcomponentwas to bring
     floodedlandback into farm production.Inaddition, drainagerehabilitationwas also
     successfullyusedto promoteprivatizationby requiringrecipientsof drainage assistance
    to cross-complywith the privatizationobjectivesunder landreform.Farmershadto buy
     or signlong-termlease agreements onstate-ownedlandinthe drainagearea andhadto
    accept responsibilityfor future drainage costs. Settingthese conditionsestablisheda
    "give andtake" approachwhich ensuredthat farmers bothcontributedandwere
    committedto the drainageobjectivesandto the privatizationobjectivesunder land
    reform. This servedto advancemore than one objectivewith the same investment o f
    resourcesunderthe project.

(2) A private sector delivery systemfor extension services can be an effective alternative to
    public sector delivery,provided that there are appropriate incentives,Bnancial
    controls, and auditprocedures. The circumstancesinEstoniamade it desirableto deliver
    agriculturaladvisory servicesthroughaprivatedelivery system. Knowledgerequirements
    were highduringthe economic transition, meetingthese requirementswas urgent, andthe
    informationandadvice requiredwere very diverse.Privatedelivery (i)     allowedswift
    implementation,(ii)  avoidedthe future costs ofhavingto dismantlea public delivery
    system after havingmettransitionrequirements, (iii)   contributedto developinga base of
    private sector expertiseto meetthe long-termaim ofhavingthe marketprovidecertain
    extensionserviceson a user-pay basis, (iv) recognizedthe privatesector's capacity for
    providing a diversity of extensionexpertise, and (v) respectedthe preferencesof farmers
    for less governmentinvolvementintheir business affairs. The projectdemonstratesthat a
    privatedelivery system is a workable alternative whenthere are appropriate incentives
    andcontrolsinplaceto preventprogramabuse. This alternative can be particularly
    valuable insituations where public sector delivery has shortcomingsrelativeto the
    objectives to be achievedor to the environmentfor deliveringthe extensionservices.

(3) I n identifying projectsfor development assistance, the Bank shouldpay close attention
    to those where the borrower is likely to take strong ownership, responsibility and
    control of theproject, because such conditions contribute significantly to achieving
   positiveproject outcomes. The EstonianAgricultureProjecti s an excellent example
    where the borrowerpossesseda strongdesireto ownthe project from the beginningto
   the end. This contributedgreatlyto a projectlikely to generatehighlypositivebenefits
   for the Estonianagriculturalandruraleconomies. Basedonthe Estoniaexample,
   indicatorsto look for inidentifyinga borrower likely to take andmaintainownership and
   responsibilityinclude:(i)  a borrowerwith a strong sense o fpolicy directionwhen
   enteringinto discussionswith the Bank; (ii)  a borroweralreadytaking steps within its
   means towardrealizationo fthe policy direction; and (iii)borrower exhibiting a desire
                                                             a
   to disengagefrom the Bank's assistance as soonas possible.Eachofthese indicators
   were very muchinevidencewith respectto the Estoniaproject.


                                         27                                      Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

ESTONIA: AGRICULTURE PROJECT (LOAN 3983)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                       Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                       estimate      current estimate  appraisal estimate
IBRD Loan                                15.3             11.29                 74
Cofinancing                              0.5              0.47                  94
Government                               11.3             10.44                 92
Total Project Costs                     27.1              22.2                  82


Cumulative Estimatedand ActualDisbursements(amounts in US$million)
                            FY96  FY97    FY98       FY99       FYOO    FYOl        FY02
Appraisal estimate           0.6   3.5     6.7       10.4        15.3    15.3       15.3
Actual                       0     0.4     2.7       5.9         7.9     10.1       11.5
Actual as % of estimate      0     11      40         57         52      75          75


Project Dates
                                             OriginaI                    Actual
IdentificationlPreparation                                            December 1993
AppraisallNegotiation                                                   June 1995
ApprovaI                                                              March 5, 1996
Effectiveness                           December 7, 1996              March 4, 1997
Mid-term review                            June 30,1998               October 9, 1999

Credit closing                          December 31,2001              June 30,2002



Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                          Actual weeks                Actual US$OOO
Through appraisal                              nla                        784
Negotiations to Board                          nla                        425
Supervision                                    nla                        383
Completion                                     nla                        353
Total                                         nla                         1,845

                                                              28                                             Annex A


Mission Data
                           Date            No. of           Specializations                 Performance rating
                      (monthlyear)       persons              represented
                                                                                  lmplementation          Development
                                                                                        status             objectives


 Preparation
 Identification/   October 1992               1       AE

                    November 1993             2       AE,DC

                   May 1994                   3       AE, E, CS

                   September 1994                     TM, FS, AE, FE, DS, RIS,
                                             lo LES,LRS,RCS,LWAS
                   November 1994              2       TM,FS

                   January 1995               5       TM, ES, RCS, E, PS

                   March 1995                 1       E

                   June 1995                  3       TM, E (2),AEX

Appraisal/                                            TM, E, ES, NRS, F, AE, EN,
Negotiation        June 1996                 15       DS, FS, LRS, PS, LWAS,
                                                      RCS (2)

Supervision 1      August 1996                4      TM, MES, ES, PS                      S                    5

Supervision 2      April 1997                 4       DIS, PS, TM, LRS                    S                    5

Supervision 3      October 1997               4       LRS, EN, TTL, 00                    S                    5

Supervision 4      June 1998                  2      TTL,ES                               S                    5

Supervision 5      December 1998              2      TTL,LWE                              S                    5

Supervision 6      June 1999                  1      TTL                                  S                    5

Supervision 7      November 1999                     TTL, PS, OS, FMS (2), ES,
                                                     LRS                                  S                    5

Supervision 8      April 2000                3       TTL,FMS,LRS                          S                    5

Supervision 9      July 2000                  1      ES                                   S                    5

Supervision 10     August 2000                1      LRS                                  S                    5

Supervision 11     October 2000              5       TTL, FMS, LRS, EX (2)                S                    5

Supervision 12     June 2001                 4       TTL, PA, LRS, FMS                    S                    5

Supervision 13     October 2001              5       TTL, FMS, LRS, ES, AE                S                    5

Supervision 14    April 2002                 5       TTL, FMS, LRS, EX, AE               HS                    HS

ICR               October 2002               2       TTL,E                               HS                   HS

Supervision 1     August 1996                4       TM, MES, EX, PS                      S                    5

Specializations represented: AEX=Agricultural Extension; AG=Agricultural Economist; DC=Division Chief; CS=Credit
Specialist; DIS=Disbursement Specialist; DS=Drainage Specialist; E=Economist; EN=Environmental Specialist;
ES=Extension Specialist; F=Forester; FE=Forestry Economist; FMS=Financial Management Specialist; FS=Forestry
Specialist; LES=Livestock and Extensions Specialist; LRS=Land Reform Specialist; LWAS=Land and Water Associations
Specialist; MES= M&E Specialist; NR=Natural Resources; 00=0perations Officer; OS=Operations Specialist; PA=Program
Assistant; PS=Procurement Specialist; RCS=Rural Credit Specialist; RIS= Rural Institutions Specialist; TM=Task Manager;
TTL= Task Team Leader; RCS=Rural Credit Specialist.
Performance ratings: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory.



