Page  1
MALI : FIFTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT 
PROJET INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6256 
Operation Name 
ML-Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (28%); Mining and other 
extractive (27%); Public administration- Health (18%); Public 
administration- Finance (18%); Public administration- Education (9%). 
Project ID 
P122483 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Quartier du Fleuve, PO Box 234 
Bamako 
Mali 
Tel: (223-20) 225-806 
Fax: (223-20) 221-914 
Date PID Prepared 
January 5, 2011 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 13, 2011 
Date of Board Approval 
March 10, 2011 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mali has established a strong economic management record over the past decade and a half, in the context 
of a stable democratic political environment and founded on a market-oriented policy framework. Mali 
has also been implementing its second Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Growth and Poverty Reduction 
Framework (GPRSF) covering the period 2007-11.  Notwithstanding recent achievements in growth 
(which have averaged 4.0 percent a year from 2005-
09), Mali’s economic prospects remain vulnerable to 
various exogenous shocks (global crisis, climatic, pests, commodity prices,) and are hampered by deeply 
rooted obstacles to growth, notably a poor investment climate and deficient infrastructure.  
 
The GPRSF - and the accompanying Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) - were considered by the Board of 
Executive Directors on September 28, 2007.  The GPRSF pursues strong broad-based growth and 
improvement of public service delivery.  In 2008, an Accelerated Growth Strategy (accompanied by an 
action plan) for the period 2008-2012 was prepared and presented to the 6
th 
Donor Round Table 
Conference held on June 12 and 13,  2008.  The most recent (third) Annual Progress Report of the 
GPRSF, approved by Mali’s Cabinet in September, 2010, shows that progress has been made in the 
implementation of the reform agenda but results have been mixed.  Results were encouraging regarding 
efforts to contain HIV/AIDS and to increase access to drinking water in line with the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), but maternal health indicators remain a concern.
 1
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The overall objective of this second series of PRSCs is to support implementation of Mali’s GPRSF 
adopted in 2006.  Specifically, the development objectives to which the PRSC-5 contributes are to:  
1
Mali’s GNI per capita is estimated at US$680 (Atlas method, 2009), and the country ranks 
160out of 169 countries in 
the UNDP’s 2010 Human Development Index.
 
Page  2
(1)  improve the policy environment for infrastructure and private investment, with a particular 
emphasis on actions to ensure a smooth transition to private ownership in the cotton sector, 
enhance governance in the office du Niger, improve the ease of doing business, enhance the 
financial sustainability of the electricity utility, and to strengthen transparency and 
accountability practices in the mining sector;  
(2)  strengthen public financial management, through a strengthened legal  framework for 
procurement, increased transparency and strengthened external oversight;  
(3)  strengthen PFM in the sectors in charge of basic education and health in the Malian context of 
decentralization; and  
 
(4)  increase the utilization  of health services by the poor.  
 
The operation is an integral par
t
of
the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali discussed by 
the Board of Executive Directors on February 5, 2008, and directly contributes to the CAS Strategic 
Objectives 1 and 2, complementing Specific Investment Lending (SIL) operations that directly support 
Mali’s growth and education sector reforms. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC-5 is an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali discussed by 
the Board of Executive Directors on February 5, 2008.  The PRSC-5 complements Bank operations that 
directly support Mali’s growth agenda (notably on agricultural productivity, energy, and business 
development) and education sector reform.  The PRSC-5 supports the implementation of critical reforms 
in areas in which the Bank has comparative advantage and contributes to the 2011 budget financing 
needs.  
 
4. Financing 
 
SOURCE: 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
US$70.0 mn 
 TOTAL 
US$70.0 
mn 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for overall coordination of supervision and 
monitoring of the reform program supported by the proposed operation.
 
The MEF will liaise with focal 
points in the Ministries, departments and agencies involved in the PRSC program.  The participating 
ministries, departments and agencies will furnish relevant information and documentation on 
implementation and monitoring of their respective programs to MEF, which will oversee progress in 
achieving program objectives.  The main sources of data will be the 2010 household survey, the 
population census that took place in April 2009, administrative statistics collected annually by the sectoral 
ministries’ planning and statistical units, economic statistics produced by the National Statistics Institute 
(INSTAT), PAGAM II reports and budget data from the MEF. 
 
The monitoring of the PRSC-5 outcomes will be conducted within the GPRSF monitoring and evaluation 
framework and the joint donor budget missions.
 
The GPRSF includes a results matrix, which informed 
the results expected for the PRSC series.  The institutional structure for managing the overall 
implementation of the GPRSF is currently being strengthened.  The Government will provide quarterly 
reports to IDA on implementation progress measured against the agreed performance indicators detailed 
Page  3
in Annex 4 of the program document.  The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the Government in 
close coordination with regular IDA missions. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The operation is expected to contribute to the implementation of critical reforms that would foster growth, 
reduce vulnerability to shocks, strengthen public financial management, notably procurement practices, 
and fiduciary oversight and improve the framework for social service delivery at sub-national level. 
However, the operation faces external, implementation capacity, budget, and political and security risks. 
 
External risks
.
A
slower than expected recovery from the global crisis, a reversal of the terms of trade 
gains, a further drop in remittances and tourism revenues, and a decline in external aid remain major risks 
for the country. Recent trends in food prices in global markets have not yet affected domestic inflation in 
Mali
 but
the situation could change.  The ongoing political crisis in Côte d’Ivoire adds to the uncertainties 
emerging from global developments. Transport routes, trade and migrant labor flows could be severely 
disrupted, even if at a lesser extent that in the early 2000s. Other exogenous factors such as Mali’s 
vulnerability to natural shocks (drought, locust invasion) could compound the situation. Mitigating factors 
are Mali’s strong track record in macroeconomic management and the government’s renewed focus on 
growth-enhancing structural reforms while giving attention to key social programs.  The proposed 
operation would contribute to the mitigating measures by supporting policy actions that contribute to 
economic growth and diversification, and further strengthen public finance management including at 
decentralized level.  
Implementation capacity risk. 
This risk stems from the very limited capacity in the public sector at 
central, regional and local levels.  This situation could slow down the implementation of planned reforms. 
The proposed operation seeks to mitigate this by accompanying key reforms with technical assistance 
provided through Bank projects and by other donors.  
Budget risks. 
Ongoing financial difficulties facing the cotton and electricity/water parastatal companies 
(CMDT and EDM SA), the Malian Housing Bank (BHM) and the social security fund CRM, could 
potentially require larger than anticipated government transfers than those included in the 2011 budget to 
cover larger financial shortfalls in those sectors. These risks are mitigated by close monitoring of the 
financial positions of BHM, CMDT, EDM SA and CRM and ongoing restructuring efforts.   
Political and security risks.
 Presidential and legislative elections are scheduled for 2012 and could slow 
down the pace of reform. Insecurity concerns, linked with the activities of al-Qaida in the Islamic 
Maghreb (AQIM) in the north of the country remain and budgetary allocations could need to 
accommodate higher-than-budgeted security spending. Insecurity could also reduce tourism revenues. 
These risks are difficult to mitigate in the context of the operation 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed PRSC-5 is expected to have a positive effect on poverty reduction.  Measures supported 
aim to increase production and productivity in the agricultural sector, where the vast majority of the poor 
are employed.  Reforms that contribute to improved governance in public financial management are 
expected to align budget resource allocation with poverty reducing priorities while enhancing value for 
money.  Finally, measures to increase the availability of skilled teachers and nurses in rural areas are 
expected to improve the provision of basic social services in areas where the majority of the poor live. 
The Government’s efforts to expand the coverage of medical insurance through mutual insurance 
schemes in rural areas and the informal sector would remove a key constraint for the use of existing 
health services.  
 
Page  4
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not likely to have 
significant negative effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources
.
The 
reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen regulatory, institutional and public finance management at 
the national, regional and local government level.  The overall Government policy agenda to which the 
PRSC- 5 contributes covers the agriculture (cotton and ON), infrastructure (electricity) and mining sectors 
that may also have significant associated environmental risks.  These sectors benefit from Bank financed 
investment operations which would provide support to strengthen Government’s capacity to manage 
potential environmental risks. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Clara de Sousa 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2558 
Fax:  
Email: cdesousa@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
