Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6120 
Operation Name 
ML-Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (28%); Mining and other 
extractive (27%); Public administration- Health (18%); Public 
administration- Finance (18%);Public administration- Education (9%). 
Project ID 
P122483 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Quartier du Fleuve, PO Box 234 
Bamako 
Mali 
Tel: (223-20) 225-806 
Fax: (223-20) 221-914 
Date PID Prepared 
November 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 18, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 10, 2011 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The proposed PRSC-5 would support the Government in the pursuit of policy objectives laid out in its Growth 
and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF), of accelerating growth and improving the wellbeing of the 
Malian populations.  The reform program presented in the GPRSF has three strategic orientations: (i) to develop 
infrastructure and the productive sector, to improve the productive environment, ensure better productivity of 
factors of production and economic growth; (ii) pursue and consolidate public sector structural reforms, to ensure 
good management of public affairs; and (iii) strengthen social sectors to improve the delivery of key social 
services, in particular education, health, drinking water and sanitation, and housing.  The operation would focus 
its support in helping the government strengthen its regulatory and institutional environment for business 
development, strengthen public financial management and improve the delivery of basic social services.  
The operation is an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali discussed by the 
Board of Executive Directors on February 5, 2008, and directly contributes to the CAS Strategic Objectives 1 and 
2, complementing Specific Investment Lending (SIL) operations that directly support Mali’s growth and 
education sector reforms.  
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The overall objective of this second series of PRSCs is to support implementation of Mali’s GPRSF adopted in 
2006.  Specifically, the development objectives to which the PRSC-5 contributes are to: (1) improve the policy 
environment for infrastructure and private investment, with a particular emphasis on actions to ensure a smooth 
transition to private ownership in the cotton sector, enhance governance in the office du Niger, improve the ease 
of doing business, enhance the financial sustainability of the electricity utility, and to strengthen transparency and 
accountability practices in the mining sector; (2) strengthen public financial management, through a strengthened 
legal framework for procurement, increased transparency and strengthened external oversight; (3) strengthen PFM 
in the sectors in charge of basic education and health in the Malian context of decentralization; and (4) increase 
the utilization  of health services by the poor. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The operation is the last of a series of three programmatic annual PRSCs. 
The operation is the last of a series 
of three programmatic annual PRSCs. It includes 11 prior actions of which: 6  target improvements in 
the policy environment for infrastructure and private investment (cotton, irrigation, electricity and 
business environment); 2 target improvements in public financial management (procurement and 
Page  2
external audit), and 3 target improved social service delivery (decentralized public financial 
management in education and health, and framework for mutual insurance schemes).
 
The PRSC-5 framework for monitoring and evaluation of the PRSC-5 is in line with the institutionalized 
framework used for the monitoring and evaluation of the Government’s program. The PRSC-5 includes a results 
matrix that is selective and contains indicators linked with the measures supported and that are regularly 
monitored without imposing additional costs to the Government.  Coordination with IMF and other donors, 
particularly the Macroeconomic Thematic Group will be ensured. Specific consultations on the policy reforms 
supported by the PRSC series have commenced, including in coordination with other donors.   
 
The proposed PRSC-5 is expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction.  By improving the policy 
environment for infrastructure and investment, the PRSC-5 is expected to promote opportunities for employment 
and incomes, and poverty reduction.  The strengthening of public financial management is expected to enhance 
the efficiency and effectiveness of public resources in the delivery of development services.  In addition,  PRSC- 
5
supports the framework for decentralization of health and education budgets which, by giving voice to 
beneficiaries regarding their priorities and providing regular feedback on service delivery, constitutes a powerful 
instrument to tackle poverty, provided it is undertaken meaningfully. Finally, by supporting the strategy to expand 
health insurance mutual schemes, the operation contributes to increased use of health services, notably by women 
and children, thus contributing to improved health outcomes of the poor and vulnerable. Mutual insurance 
schemes cater primarily for low income households both in rural and urban communities. 
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not likely to have significant 
negative effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  The reforms supported aim 
primarily to strengthen regulatory, institutional and public finance management at the national, regional and local 
government level.  Nevertheless, the PRSC-5 covers certain aspects of improving the policy environment for 
infrastructure and private investment, including in the agriculture (cotton and irrigation), infrastructure 
(electricity) and mining sectors. These sectors may have significant associated environmental risks. The areas 
covered by the PRSC are benefitting from Bank financed investment operations for which specific Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessments have been prepared. 
 
4. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
55 
 Total 
55 
 
5. Contact 
point 
Contact: Clara Ana Coutinho de Sousa 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2558 
Email: cdesousa@worldbank.org 
 
