Report No. 430-IN                                                                              P         COPY
Appraisal of the Chambal Comman
Area Development Project (Rajasthan)
in India                                                              C                                   n, CftrURN I -p1.R
May 29, 1974                                               1     E RETh9IRL                              D S T
Asia Projects Department                                                                   W rrH                  I
Irrigation and Area Development Division I                                             O          WEEK
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for offlcial use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        -  Rupees (Rs) 8.00/
Rs 1.00        - US$0.125
US$1 million   -  RS 8,000,000
Rs 1 million   - US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                     -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                -  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)            3        2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )   =  810 acre-feet
1 litre per second per                  3
hectare (1/s/ha)              =  14 ft /s/1,000 ac
1 ton                           a 1,000 kilogram (kg)
2 ,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                 -  1,340 horsepower (hp)
NOTATION
-    Nil or negligible
N. Not available separately but included in total
.  Not available
*   Not applicable
/1 This has been taken as the short-term average exchange rate.
The Indian Rupee is linked to the Pound Sterling and the
exchange rate with the United States Dollar has varied between
US$1.00 - Rs 7.60 and Rs 8.70 in recent months.



ABBREVIATIONS
ARC            -  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
CAA            -  Command Area Authority
CAD&WU         -  Command Area Development and Water Utilization
CWPC           -  Central Water and Power Commission
FAO            -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI            -  Government of India
GOR            -  Government of Rajasthan
ICAR           -  Indian Council on Agricultural Research
LMC            -  Left Main Canal
LS             -  Lump Sum
O & M          -  Operation and Maintenance
PWD            -  Public Works Department (Rajasthan)
RLDC           -  Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
RMC            -  Right Main Canal
USBR           - United States Bureau of Reclamation
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Program
VLW            - Village Level Worker
vpd            -  Vehicles per day
GLOSSSARY
Chak           -  Area served by a watercourse, about 35 ha
Gur            -  Unrefined (brown) sugar
Jowar          =  Sorghum
Katlar         -  Local sandstone
Kharif         - Wet season (June to September)
Mandi          =  Town market
Mirab          =  Chak representative, common irrigator
Murrum         =  Permeable soil layer
Panchayat      - Village council
Patwari        =  Village-level revenue or irrigation official
Rabi           - Dry season (October to February)
Typha          -  Species of marsh plant
Warabandi      -  System of rotation irrigation
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOR and agencies    -  April 1 - March 31
ARC, Cooperatives, RLDC - July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks          -  January 1 - December 31






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......... ....................    i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................          ... ...       1
II.    BACKGROUND .....................                                               1
The Economy  ...        .................. .. . ................       1
Agriculture  in India  ................   ..........  .                2
Agriculture in Rajasthan  .....            ............. .             2
Project Formulation ...................                                3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  .......              .......................... O..          4
General  . .............. .........................***                 4
Climate .......................                                        5
Topography,  Soils anid Drainage  ................             .       5
Population,  Land Tenure and Social Structure  ...                     6
Agricultural Production  ............           ............           7
Marketing and Transportation  ............*......                      7
Present Problems ...............                       ...... .        8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..................*..*.. ....e...  ....  ....                     9
Project Works  .......          .......................... .           9
Other Project Components                 .......................      11
Water Supply,  Demand and Quality                .............. .     11
Engineering Design  ......              .......................       12
Construction Methods  .....              ......................       12
Implementation Schedule  ..........           ..............          13
Cost Estimates  ................................ .                    13
Financing  .......       ................................             14
Procurement  .......           .............................          14
Disbursements  .......           ...........................          16
Accounts and Audit  ......             .......................        16
Environmental Effects of the Project  .........               ..      17
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. G.J. Tibor, P.W. Whitford, J.K. Lee, K.V.S.K. Nathan (Bank) and
Messrs. R.S. Baskett, D. Benor and W. L. McCaig (Consultants). Messrs. G.
von Gontard and R.L.P. Harris also contributed to the Report.



2
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .        ..... ................... .  17
Project Implementation         .........................  17
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation       ..........    18
Financing of On-Farm Development Works ......... .       18
Agricultural Supporting Services         ...............  19
Technical Assistance and Training . .............        21
Operation and Maintenance ..*       ...................  22
Cost Recovery ..........      .. ..                      22
Monitoring of Project Benefits  ........ # .........     23
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME ........         24
Production        ......................................  24
Market Prospects ................................        24
Processing and Storage .....      .....................  24
Prices ................................                  25
Farm Income and Repayment Capacity ....      ..          25
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........  o......  o........        26
VIII.   AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............         27
ANNEXES
1.  Climatic Data
2.   Project Works
3.   Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Equipment Requirements
6.   Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.   Organization, Management and Project Financing
8.   Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
9.   Agricultural Supporting Services
10.   Operation and Maintenance
11.  Agricultural Production
12.  Marketing, Prices, Processing and Storage
13.   Farm Budgets
14.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
8597    Project Activity Diagram
8598    Implementation Schedule
8599    Organization Chart - State Level
8600    Organization Chart - Command Area Authority
8601    Organization Chart - Irrigation and Land Development



-3-
MAPS
10886 Location Map
10887 Project Area
10888 On-Farm Development - Typical Layout
REFERENCES
1. "Report to the Government of Rajasthan on On-Farm Development
Works", William L. McCaig and others, February, 1974.
2.   "Rajasthan Canal and Chambal Command Area Development Projects:
Supplementary Note on Agricultural Credit", FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, October 1973.
3.   "Report on Chambal Command Area Development Project Extension
Service", Daniel Benor, January 1974.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area
Development Project would be the first in India for command area develop-
ment - the provision of all the necessary physical works and agricultural
supporting services to enable full realization of the benefits of existing
irrigation projects. Such projects have been given high priority in India's
development planning and further projects of this kind are being prepared
for Bank Group consideration.
ii.       India's development program for the next five years gives greater
emphasis than previous plans to alleviating poverty and creating employment,
particularly in the agricultural sector, which engages 70% of the population.
Despite the impressive results of the green revolution in some areas, overall
growth in agricultural output has barely kept pace with population increases.
The expansion and improvement of irrigation development must play a major
role in future food production.
iii.      Rajasthan is one of the largest but more sparsely populated
states of India. More than a third of the state is desert and irrigation
development is therefore necessary for increased agricultural production.
The major works of the Chambal Irrigation Project were essentially completed
in 1960. These works include reservoirs and a canal system, designed to
serve an irrigable area of 229,000 ha in the Kota and Bundi Districts of
Rajasthan and a similar area in the adjoining state of Madhya Pradesh.
iv.       About 60,000 farm families live in the project area.  The average
farm size is about 4 ha and the median siz3 2 ha. The present cropping
intensity in the project area is about 87%, with only 22% occurring in the
short wet season. The principal wet season crops are paddy and sorghum while
the staple crop (wheat) is grown in the dry season, partly on stored soil
moisture. The other major crops are sugarcane, oilseeds and pulses.
v.        Agricultural production in the project area of 229,000 ha has not
met earlier expectations due to a lack of drainage and on-farm development,
inadequate roads, unsatisfactory maintenance, and ineffective supporting
services. The proposed project would be the first step in a program to
correct these deficiencies and would include: drainage over 167,000 ha;
lining of 14 km of canals where seepage is excessive; increasing the capacity
of 850 km of canals and building or improving 160 control structures; on-farm
development over 50,000 ha (Area A), including irrigation and drainage
ditches and access to almost every farm, boundary realignment and land
shaping; construction or improvement of 250 km of roads; afforestation and
erosion control on 1,000 ha; provision of 15,000 nutrient tons of fertilizer
to restore the soil fertility of Area A; the strengthening of agricultural



- ii -
extension, research and cooperatives; and construction of miscellaneous small
works and the purchase of equipment for project administration, supporting
services and the force account portions of the works.
vi.       Project implementation would take six years and would use
labor-intensive methods, wherever feasible. The use of heavy machinery
would be mainly confined to land shaping and the excavation of large
drains.
vii.      Total project costs, including interest during construction on the
proposed loan, are estimated at US$91.5 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$35.0 million (38Z). The proposed Loan of US$52.0 million
would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project and 30% of the local
costs, or 57Z of total costs. The Government of India (GOI) would relend
the proceeds of the Loan (except disbursements for on-farm development,
fertilizer and interest during construction) to the Government of Rajasthan
(GOR) in accordance with its standard arrangements for State development
projects. Part of the cost of the irrigation works would be reimbursed to
GOR from the State of Madhya Pradesh. Fertilizer purchases by GOI would be
financed directly by the Loan. On-farm works would be financed mainly by
the farmers, using loans from GOI and the commercial banks. These banks
would be refinanced 80% by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation of the
GOI. All funds for on-farm development would be channeled through a new
agency, the Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC), to be set up by
GOR.
viii.     Out of US$8.0 million worth of vehicles and equipment to be pro-
cured under the project, US$5.4 million would be subject to international com-
petitive bidding and US$1.0 million, which for reasons of efficiency are not
not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through normal
GOR procurement procedures. The balance of US$1.6 million would be reserved
for local procurement and would not be eligible for financing under the
Loan. Fertilizer procurement under the project would be combined with the
regular All-India procurement. Because of present world shortages, an
"international shopping" procedure would be used. It would not be practic-
able to group the civil works under the project (estimated to cost US$33.3
million including construction materials and machinery supplied by the project
Authorities) into contracts large enough to be of interest to international con-
tractors. These wor?s would be carried out by small, mainly annual, contracts
to be advertised locally or, where this is not practicable, by force account.
ix.       In order to ensure full cooperation between all the departments
concerned with command area development, GOR is setting up a Command Area
Development and Water Utilization Department at State level and a Chambal
Command Area Authority (CAA) to manage the project. The CAA would be
headed by an Area Development Commissioner and would have four departments:
Irrigation and Land Development, Agriculture, Revenue and Cooperatives.
The Commissioner would have coordinating authority over the remaining
project activities, roads and afforestation.
x.        On-farm development, within a tertiary command area, would be
compulsory. RLDC would prepare loan applications for those farmers



- iii -
eligible for commercial credit. Other farmers would receive special
loans from RLDC, using GOI funds. Subsidies would be available for
several categories of disadvantaged farmers.
xi.       The extension service is being reorganized and will make use of
progressive farmers as part-time extension workers. Institutional credit
would grow under the project, mainly through an expansion of the role of
the commercial banks. Provision has been made in the project for technical
assistance and in-service training, including the engagement of a land
development expert. A special group would be created to monitor the progress
of the project. GOI is considering the formation of a national unit to
interpret satellite photography, which could assist in monitoring the reduction
in salinity and waterlogging.
xii.      Under the project, irrigation and drainage charges would be
raised to cover the full cost of operating and maintaining the project
works.  A system of rotational irrigation would be introduced throughout the
project area. A special Government committee would be established to
recommend arrangements for the recovery of project costs, taking into account
the farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
xiii.     The average cropping intensity would rise from 87% at present
to 111% at full development. In the areas receiving on-farm development,
the ultimate cropping intensity would be 150%, of which 135% would be
irrigated. The production of foodgrains would increase from 140,000 tons
at present to 350,000 tons at full development. Marketing prospects
for all the crops are good.  Processing, storage and marketing facilities
are generally satisfactory for the present levels of production and GOP.
has investments planned which should be adequate for conditions at full project
development.
xiv.      Farm incomes would, on average, increase from Rs 1,800 to between
Rs 2,600 and Rs 10,000 over an eight-year period. Repayment of project
charges, including commercial bank credit, would be over 30% of net farm
income in some cases but this should not reduce the farmers' incentive to
participate in the project. At present, about 55% of the farmers in the
project area are within the lowest 40% on the national income scale.
xv.       The project would provide the equivalent of 20,000 additional
Jobs over the next decade and would lead to an increase in the net value
of production from the project area of Rs 102 million (US$13 million) per
year at full development in eight years' time.
xvi.      The economic rate of return is estimated at 19%, using a 30-year
evaluation period and shadow prices for farm labor such that the incremental
labor requirement with the project is priced at about 75% of the market wage
rate for hired labor in peak periods. The rate of return is rather sensitive
to the pace of agricultural development, which emphasizes the need for an
effective extension service. Rates of return were calculated separately for
the three standards of development applying to different parts of the project
area and all were satisfactory.



- iv -
xvii.     The project in suitable for a Bank Loan of US$52.0 million with
a 30-year maturity and a seven-year grace period. The borrower would be
India.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested Bank assistance in
financing the construction of the Chambal Command Area Development Project,
in the State of Rajasthan. The project would include the completion and
modernization of the irrigation and drainage networks in the project area,
on-farm development for part of the area and agricultural supporting services.
This project and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project,
proposed for IDA financing, would be the first Bank Group investments in
Rajasthan, apart from components of various nationwide projects. The two
projects are also the first Bank Group assistance to command area development 1/
in India. The Bank Group has previously assisted nine irrigation, drainage
and flood control projects in India, as well as ten agricultural credit and
a number of other agricultural projects.
1.02      The problems of the Chambal Command Area have been studied since
1967 by a UNDP/FAO team. Many of the conclusions reached in that study,
including the results of pilot-scale on-farm development, have been used
in formulating the project. The project was prepared by the Government
of Rajasthan (GOR) in a feasibility report dated August 1972. Further
preparation was assisted by a team from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program,
resulting in a report (No. 30/73 IND 18) dated October 10, 1973. The
present report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. G.J. Tibor, P.W. Whitford, J.K. Lee, K.V.S.K. Nathan (Bank), and
Messrs. R.S. Baskett, D. Benor, and W.L. McCaig (Consultants), which visited
India in November, 1973.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2
2.01      India covers some 3,270,000 km , of which 43Z is arable and
about 9% is under some kind of irrigation. India's population is about
580 million, with a recent growth rate of 2.2%. Population growth and
a relatively poor natural resource base have imposed sharp limitations on
India's economic growth. However, since the inception of economic develop-
ment planning in 1950, national income has grown at nearly 4% per annum,
compared with an average growth rate of less than 1% during the preceding
50 years. In 1970, the per capita GNP was about US$110.
1/   "Command Area Development" means the provision of all necessary physical
works and agricultural supporting services to enable realization of the
full productive potential of an existing irrigation project.



-2-
2.02      The Government's development program for the next five years aims
at an economic growth rate of 5.5%, but with greater emphasis than in previous
plans on alleviating poverty and creating employment. This would be accom-
plished by promoting labor-intensive techniques, raising the productivity of
subsistence farmers, especially of disadvantaged farmers, a national program
to supply the minimum needs of the poorest segments of the population, and
tax measures to curb consumption by the richer classes. However, these
objectives are likely to be difficult to attain.
Agriculture in India
2.03      About 70% of India's population are engaged in agriculture
and the sector accounts for about 45S of GNP. Agriculture also provides
the major part of India's exports, the most important commodities being
jute, tea, leather, cotton goods and cashews. Since 1965, India has changed
the emphasis of its development efforts from industry to agriculture and
has given priority to accelerating the spread of modern technology, by
increasing the availability of high-yielding seeds and fertilizer, expand-
ing irrigation and developing modern credit institutions. Yet, despite
the impressive results of the green revolution in some areas since 1967,
the overall growth rate in agricultural output in the ten-year period
ending in 1972, was only 3%, which was little more than population growth
and slightly lower than the growth rate in the previous decade. However,
these figures conceal an important structural change: growth in production
is now coming primarily from yield increases rather than from increases
in area cropped, as has traditionally been the case.
2.04      The green revolution has mainly affected wheat and its effects
have been concentrated in the northwestern states which are well endowed
with irrigation facilities. The spread of high-yielding rice varieties has
been disappointingly slow, due to inadequate water control, low levels of
fertilizer application and, for the last two years, a shortage of fertilizer.
Other crops have had stagnant or low growth rates.
2.05      Despite the progress made in food production, India's agricul-
ture still depends heavily on the vagaries of the weather, as shown by the
1972/73 drought when reserve stocks were seriously reduced and large amounts
of grain had to be imported. A major factor in reducing India's dependence
on the weather will be the expansion of irrigation and the more effective
use of existing irrigation potential (para 2.09).
Agriculture in Rajasthan
2.06      Rajasthan is the second-largest state in India, with an area
of 34 million ha (Map 10886), but it has one of the smaller populations,
about 27 million, of whom 80% are rural. The northwestern part of the
state is arid, with rainfall less than 300 mm, and drains towards the
Indus River. The southeastern part, with rainfalls of 800 to 950 mm, can
be classed as semi-arid and drains mostly to the Chambal River and thence
to the Ganga system.



- 3 -
2.07      About 37% (13 million ha) of the state is desert and is largely
uncultivated. However, several large irrigation schemes, notably the
Rajasthan Canal Project, are opening up desert lands for cultivation,
using water from the upper Indus basin. Forests cover 1 million ha and
14.3 million ha are under rainfed crops, mainly millet, sorghum and gram
(chickpea).  About 2.1 million ha are irrigated, 55% from dug wells,
35% from public canal systems and 10% from tanks. Irrigated crops include:
cotton, wheat, paddy, sugarcane, millet, pulses, oilseeds, fruit and
vegetables.
2.08      Current development planning in Rajasthan is designed to achieve
an overall growth rate of 5% in the state domestic product, including a 4.4%
growth rate in the agricultural sector. Public investment of Rs 6,350 mil-
lion is envisaged, of which 40% would go to irrigation projects and a further
10% to other agricultural projects. Major projects in the agricultural
sector to be financed in the next five years include the Chambal and Rajasthan
Canal Command Area Development Projects, the Drought Prone Area Program
(all of which are proposed for Bank Group assistance), the Crash Scheme for
Rural Unemployment, soil conservation, and animal husbandry. This program
also includes assistance for cooperatives and community development.
Project Formulation
2.09      Concern has been growing in India for the past several years over
the inadequate utilization of irrigation systems. Between 1950 and 1972,
10 million ha of new land was provided with irrigation facilities but only
80% of this potential is being utilized and much of that in an inefficient
manner. The reasons for the underutilization of existing facilities, which
is becoming a serious constraint on India's ability to meet its food
production needs, are discussed at length in the "Report of the Irrigation
Commission 1972" and include: a lack of watercourses, drains and roads,
inadequate land leveling, insufficient agriculzural supporting services and
a lack of administrative coordination. It has been unofficially estimated
that some 10 million ha of recently completed irrigation projects require
additional investments of between US$200 and US$500 per ha before they can
become fully productive. As a result, a Command Area Development (CAD)
Department has been set up within the GOI Ministry of Food and Agriculture
and a list of high priority projects has been drawn up.
2.10      Several IDA agricultural credit prcf2cts presantly provide financing
through commercial credit institutions for rhe zonstruction of on-farm works.
Responsibility for carrying out the works under these projects rests with
the farmers who, with few exceptions, have been unable to organize themselves
to construct and maintain the necessary works. As a result, the implementa-
tion rate of on-farm works under these and other major irrigation projects in
India has been disappointing. In addition these schemes make no provision
for the concurrent improvement and expansion of the irrigation, drainage and
road networks, which is essential for the efficient use of available water.
An acceleration in the rate of implementation of on-farm works will require
a transfer of responsibility for their execution to a project authority.
It will also require legislation under which on-farm works can be associated
with minor realignment of farm boundaries and %ith execution of the work no



-4-
longer being left to the discretion of individual farmers, although they would
be expected to repay the cost of the works. GOI has agreed in prineiple to
restrict assistance for CAD projects to States which agree to implement them
along these lines.
2.11      At the request of GOI, a Bank Group Irrigation Reconnaissance
Mission visited India in November, 1972 to review the need for CAD and its
suitability for Bank Group assistance. The mission confirmed the urgent need
for CAD and identified several projects as having high priority for investment.
Accordingly, the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program was asked to assist in the
further preparation of the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development
Projects. At present, two further projects are under preparation for Bank
Group consideration, including the Chambal Command Area Development Project
(Madhya Pradesh).
2.12      India's development planning for the next five years emphasizes
Comand Area Development and GOI and the States have discussed the kind of
administrative and financial arrangements needed to carry out such projects.
In general, the approach will be to achieve integrated development of the
land, water and human resources of irrigated areas through a unified project
management. Details of this approach, for the present project, are described
in Chapter V.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Chambal Irrigation Project (Map 10886) is one of the larger
irrigation and power projects to have been built in India since independence.
The Chambal River is the major tributory to the Ganga system from the
south and forms the boundary between the States of Rajasthan and Madhya
Pradesh over much of its length. The irrigable area (culturable command
area) is 229,000 ha in Rajasthan and a similar area in Madhya Pradesh.
Project construction began in 1953 and was substantially complete by 1971,
with irrigation beginning in 1960. Regulating structures on the Chambal
River include two storage reservoirs with power stations, a smaller pondage
with a third power station and the Kota Barrage which diverts water into the
canal system. The 372 km long Right Main Canal (RMC) serves 127,000 ha in
Rajasthan as well as the Madhya Pradesh command area. The two main branches
of the Left Main Canal (LMC) total 168 km in length and serve 102,000 ha.
3.02      The project area is located in the Kota and Bundi districts
of Rajasthan State and is centered on the city of Kota, which has a popu-
lation of about 225,000 (Map 10887). The gross project area (in Rajasthan)
is about 485,000 ha, the non-irrigable area consisting of ravines and
erosion gullies and a few high spots. Watercourses have been constructed
under the project and serve a majority of the fields but very few drains
exist. The following nomenclature is used for the canal system, in
decreasing order of size: main, branch, distributary, minor, watercourse,



- 5 -
and field channel.  A watercourse serves a chak, which in this area covers
an average of 35 ha or 10 farmers and is communally owned. A field channel
is a private ditch within a farm.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area is sub-tropical and three
seasons may be distinguished: the kharif or wet season (June to September);
the rabi or winter season (October to February); and the very hot and dry
pre-monsoon season. The average rainfall is about 850 mm, with 90%
occurring in the kharif. Without irrigation, drought resistant crops such
as sorghum (jowar) can be grown in the kcharif. Rabi crops can be grown on
stored soil moisture (para 3.12). Details on climate are presented in Annex 1.
Topography, Soils and Drainage
3.04      The project area, at an altitude of 170 to 260 m above sea level,
is an elongated basin in the former allulvial plain of the Chambal River.
The average slope is slight (about 0.08%) but the basin is deeply incised
by the main river and its four major tributaries. These channels and the
network of meandering gullies (nullahs) tributary to them form the primary
drainage system of the area.
3.05      The soils of the project area are fairly uniform clay-loams (black
cotton soils) and are classified as vertisols, which crack deeply into hard
angular clods when dry. When wet they are plastic, with very low infiltration
rates and considerable swelling.  Below 1.5 to 2 m, this soil merges with
a yellowish-brown heavy clay loam layer 10 to 30 cm in thickness, partly
cemented with calcium carbonate.  Below that is a yellow silty clay (the
murrum layer) continuing 20 to 30 m to bedrock.  The murrum layer has relatively
high lateral permeability and often acts as a semi-confined aquifer (para 3.07).
3.06      A detailed soil survey of the project area is underway and has
covered about 36,000 ha. An estimated 7% of the area mapped has been classed
as saline or saline-alkaline, due to inadequate drainage. The Irrigation
Department has made separate surveys of drainage conditions based on water
levels in village wells, which indicate a significant rise in the watertable
since irrigation was introduced. For example, the area with a watertable
within 3 m of the surface rose from 79,000 ha in June 1964 to 161,000 ha
in June 1971.
3.07      Water logging and salinity is worst adjacent to the main canals
and major branch canals, indicating that leakage and seepage from the
canals is a major cause of water logging. It has been estimated that
5% of the formerly cultivable land has gone out of production and that
this area is; increasing at about 1% per annum. Natural surface drainage
is only wealcly developed and is inadequate to carry away monsoon rainfalls
without damage to standing crops. In addition, semi-confined conditions
in the murrxm layer lead to an overall upward percolation which leaches
salts into the root zone, thus reducing yields and eventually rendering



-6-
the land unfit for crop production. Further details of drainage conditions
are given in Annex 2.
Population, Lind Tenure and Social Structure
3.08      The population of the project area, excluding the city of Kota,
is about 400,000, most of whom live in some 730 villages. The total farm
population is approximately 350,000 or about 60,000 farm families. This
corresponds with an estimate of 55,000 farm holdings in the project area.
3.09      A pilot survey of the project area in 1973 gave the following
farm size distribution:
Project Area               India
Farm Size                   Number      Area        Number      Area
--- ha ---
0- 1                      29.7        3.5         40.7        6.7
1- 2                      18.1        6.8         22.3       12.2
2- 4                      21.0       16.5         18.9       20.0
4-10                      21.9      32.5   )
10-40                       9.0      35.2   )      18.1       61.1
Over 40                       0.3        5.5   )
Average Holding (ha)               3.5                     2.7
Farm sizes in the project area are slightly higher than the national
average but the size distribution is similarly highly skewed. The median
farm size is about 2 ha and the average 3.5 ha. However, since, many of
the smaller holdings are owned by merchants and town dwellers, as a side-
line, an average farm size of 4.0 ha has been assumed for purposes of
project analysis.
3.10      Following various land reform acts, the majority (about 90%) of
holdings are now owner-operated, although nominee ownership to avoid the
land ceiling laws is quite common. Under the latest land reform legislation,
holdings are limited to 7.2 ha, when an assured water supply is available
for two crops per year, or 10.8 ha for one crop per year. GOR is taking
steps to implement this law throughout the project area within the next
year and plans to resume about 40,000 ha of large holdings for allotment
to landless people. The law also prohibits future fragmentation of land
below 4.5 ha.
3.11      While the caste system has been officially abolished in India,
it is still a powerful influence in the rural areas and affects the
availability of labor for various kinds of work. For farm work, however,
caste restrictions should not be a serious constraint on development.
On the larger farms, owners would not undertake manual work and there
are also some customary restrictions on the work that women may do,
although they are widely employed for manual work, for example, on road
construction. The population of the project area is relatively homogeneous,
about 90% being Hindus and most of the remainder Moslems. People tend to



be individualistic rather than group-oriented, which could pose some
problems in obtaining consent for boundary realignment schemes (para 4.06)
and in forming irrigation associations (para 5.23).
Agricultural Production
3.12      Prior to the introduction of irrigation, crops grown in the
area were either rainfed or matured on residual soil moisture. Even with
irrigation, the area still retains many of the characteristics of
rainfed agriculture, due to the unreliability of the irrigation water
supply, the lack of extension advice and the fact that irrigation, given
the drainage problems of the area, is a very mixed blessing. The low crop-
ping intensity in kharif may be due to the limited number of crops
which can be grown in the short, intense wet season. The traditional
crop, sorghum, is not very remunerative and farmers have preferred to
let their land lie fallow in the kharif to replenish the soil moisture,
thus allowing the staple crop, wheat, to be grown on residual moisture
in the rabi. However, the recent introduction of paddy to the area has
begun to change the kharif cropping pattern.  Under present conditions,
the canal system in much of the area is closed in May and June for main-
tenance. This prevents early sowing of the kharif crops and may prevent
double cropping in these areas.
3.13      Sugarcane occupies only a small area but is an important source
of income, especially on the left bank where there is a modern sugar
factory. Other crops include pulses and oilseeds, which are an essential
component of the diet of the people (the majority of whom are vegetarians),
vegetables, spices and fodder for the considerable cattle population.
Cattle are kept for milk and as draft animals for many farm operations.
There are about 870 tractors in the project area (1 per 260 ha) and these
account for 10-15% of the land preparation. The farmers in the area are
conscious of the value of fertilizer, especially for the high-yielding
varieties of paddy and wheat, but are constrained by shortages of supply.
Further details of present cropping conditions are given in Annex 11.
Marketin& and Transportation
3.14      Bullock carts are the normal means for transporting produce to
the town markets (mandis), which generally lack elementary facilities such
as shelter and a water supply. Marketing conditions are regulated by GOR
through local committees. Recent shortages have led to market prices well
above Government support prices. Processing facilities for sugar, rice,
vegetable oils and other crops are spread throughout the project area and
are mostly owned by Government agencies or cooperatives. Warehouses, owned
by various GOI and GOR agencies, as well as cooperatives, are situated in
the major towns and in some villages. Further details on marketing, processing
and storage are given in Annex 12.
3.15      The road network within the project area is far from satisfactory.
Only one maj-or road from Kota to Bundi can be used by motor traffic
throughout the year. The other major roads are divided by low level



-8-
crossings at the major rivers which cannot be used when the rivers ;re
in flood. Most of the roads are not paved, are poorly maintained and
are usually waterlogged and impassable during the wet season. The farm-
to-village and the village-to-market roads that exist are mostly earth
roads and can be used only by bullock carts and tractors. All roadis
suffer from poor drainage and difficult subgrade conditions, which result
in higher transport costs and prices for farm inputs and lower farm-gate
prices for produce and which cause considerable delays in marketing. Kota
is connected to the State Capital, Jaipur, and other major centers by
bituminous surfaced roads of only a moderate standard but does have
good rail connections to Delhi, Bombay and Jaipur (Map 10886).
Present Problems
3.16      Agricultural production in the Chambal Project Area has not
increased to the extent envisaged at the time of construction of the
irrigation project, for the following major reasons:
(a) poor drainage conditions, leading to waterlogging,
flooding, yield reductions and a loss of some
productive land;
(b) a lack of on-farm development, resulting in low
yields and inefficient water use;
(c) an inadequate road network, causing high transport
costs;
(d) gully erosion, which causes a loss of land estimated
at about 1,000 ha per year;
(e) an extension service which is only partly effective,
due to organizational problems and a lack of training;
(f) unsatisfactory maintenance of canals and drains,
including severe problems of aquatic weed control;
(g) shortages of essential farm inputs, mainly fertilizers;
and
(h) a lack of coordination between the Government agencies
responsible for the various services to agriculture.
3.17      Unless remedial action is taken, the situation described above will
continue to deteriorate. However, despite the problems which have arisen in
the Chambal area, it is basically well suited to irrigation development
and is among the most promising areas in Rajasthan for intensified agricul-
tural production. GOR has already demonstrated its willingness to undertake
the kinds of institutional changes needed to overcome the above problems.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project represents the first stage in a ten-year
program to improve and complete the existing irrigation facilities, construct
drainage works and provide on-farm development throughout the project
area. Works to be included in the present project were selected on the
basis of priority, within organizational and budgetary constraints. For
ease of reference, those areas to receive on-farm development are designated
Area A (50,000 ha), those receiving drainage without on-farm development,
Area B (117,000 ha), and the remainder of the project area, Area C (62,000
ha). The project works would mainly benefit Area A but improvements in
operation and maintenance and in agricultural supporting services would
benefit all areas. The physical works (Map 10887) and inputs to be financed
under the project are described briefly below and in more detail in Annex 2.
Project Works
4.02      Drainage - Main drains, secondary drains at about 500 m spacing,
and shallow seepage drains to intercept water leaking from the canals
would be constructed over 167,000 ha (73% of the project area). Priority
would be given to those areas where waterlogging is the most severe (para
3.07). A drainage master plan would be drawn up in the first two years
of project implementation, so that drainage would be properly coordinated
with the other project elements.
4.03      Lining - The primary purpose of lining would be to alleviate
waterlogging from canal seepage, with reduction of water waste a secondary
consideration. Lining would be constructed only for the worst affected
reaches, while elsewhere seepage drains (para 4.02) would be used to
reduce waterlogging. The project includes the lining of 6 km of rock-
cut reaches (with gunite), 3 km of crab-infested earthen reaches and 5 km
of earthen reaches where initial bank compaction was inadequate. In
the latter two cases, the method of lining would be a double layer of
a local sandstone (katlar) which splits readily into thin slabs. Where-
ever possible the justification for lining particular reaches was established
by benefit-cost analysis.
4.04      Canal Capacity Works and Control Structures - The more intensive
cropping pattern projected for Area A (para 6.01), would give rise to an
increase in peak water demand and a need for better water control. For
these reasons, the canals serving the on-farm development area (totalling
850 km) would be increased in capacity from their original design value of
0.4 1/s/ha commanded to 0.53 1/s/ha (para 4.14) and 160 control structures
would be built or improved. About 4,000 permanent chak outlets would be
constructed throughout the project area to enable the efficient functioning
of the warabandi system (para 5.23).
4.05      Aquatic Weed Control - The most feasible method for controlling
weeds in the major canals appears to be a combination of mechanical cutting
from 18 specially equipped boats together with hand removal once a year.



- 10 -
Other works under this heading would include the filling of borrow pits in
the bed of the RMC and the construction of escapes to allow rapid dewatering.
4.06      On-Farm Development - This item includes the provision through-
out Area A of minor irrigation and drainage ditches and access to almost
every farm, together with land shaping to enable a more efficient and controlled
use of water. Realignment of the farm boundaries would also be required to
enable a rational layout of the irrigation, drainage and road facilities.
This would entail minor exchanges of land between owners and has been
shown to be feasible under the UNDP pilot projects (para 1.02). These
projects also developed methods for designing and constructing on-farm works
which, with suitable modifications, would be continued under the project.
The target of 50,000 ha of on-farm development over six years was selected
with due regard to the problems of building up organizational capacity. Area
A consists of six blocks throughout the command area (Map 10887). Some
further selection within these blocks would be made to exclude areas for
which development costs would be beyond the farmers' capability to repay
(para 6.06).
4.07      Implementation of the on-farm works would begin with an aerial
survey and the preparation of rectified air photos to serve as base maps.
Overlays showing topography, soil information and cadastral data would be
prepared and a realignment plan and a cost estimate drawn up for each
farm. Revenue officers would discuss the plan with the villagers and
obtain their agreement (financial provisions are discussed in para 5.08).
The area would then be resurveyed, to enable earthwork calculations to be
performed and to guide the construction crews, who would aim at a grading
tolerance of ± 3 cm. After the completion of construction, the farmer
would sign a completion certificate. A mechanism for settling disputes
over the quality of work is being evolved. Further details on design
and construction procedures are given in Annex 2 and Reference 1.
4.08      Roads - Road improvement and construction works totalling 247 km
have been selected for inclusion in the project so as to bridge certain
gaps in the existing network and, particularly, to serve Area A, where
the largest production increases would take place. Works on the left
bank would also improve access to the existing sugar factory (para 3.13).
Given the absence of high quality base course material in the Chambal
area, bituminous surfacing would be the least cost solution for the
project roads. A description of each road included in the project is
given in Annex 2.
4.09      Afforestation - The afforestation and erosion control component
of the project forms a small part of a long-term program to arrest the
advance of gully erosion in the project area. Under the project, ring
bunding at gully heads and the planting of various trees and shrubs
would be used for about 1,000 ha of the worst-affected areas.
4.10      Miscellaneous Works and Equipment - Miscellaneous works include
buildings for the project organization and some minor structural, flood



- 11 -
protection and silt removal works left over from the original Chambal
Project. Vehicles and equipment would be provided for project implement-
ation, construction of the force account portions of the works (para 4.25),
for hire to contractors and for the agricultural supporting services.
4.11      Fertilizer - On-farm development in Area A would disturb the
soil profile and result in a temporary loss of fertility. In addition,
these farmers would assume a heavy debt which could only be repaid if
satisfactory yields were obtained (para 6.06). Under present conditions of
fertilizer shortage, GOI allocations, even to irrigated areas, are likely to
fall well short of requirements. Therefore, it is important that these farmers
have guaranteed access to fertilizer and the project provides for the import
of 15,000 nutrient tons of various fertilizers (Annex 9), which would supply
the difference between present allocations and recommended levels over a
three-year period (for Area A only). As this fertilizer would be needed to
restore the soil fertility, it may properly be regarded as a capital expend-
iture. GOI agreed to allocate yearly to the State of Rajasthan between 1975
and 1984 fertilizer in the quantity and of the types financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan. On its part, GOR undertook to ensure that fertilizer
in the quantity and of the types to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan would be made available to farmers in Area A of the project. GOI and
GOR also confirmed their respective intention to take all steps as shall be
reasonable to ensure that the balance of farmers' fertilizer requirements
over that part financed under the project would be met and to keep the Bank
informed if there is any shortfall in the forecast availability of such
fertilizer. Further details of fertilizer requirements and the arrangements
for the distribution and monitoring of the sale of such fertilizer are
presented in Annex 9.
Other Project Components
4.12      The project includes the introduction and enforcement of a system
of rotational irrigation (warabandi) throughout the area (para 5.23) and
financial provisions for project administration, the extension services and
for operation and maintenance of the physical facilities during the project
implementation period. The project also includes further investigations in
hydrology, reservoir system operation, consumptive use, drainage design,
survey and construction methods for on-farm development, crab ecology and
aquatic weed control. Where appropriate, these studies would be assisted
by GOI agencies, university specialists and, in the case of on-farm devel-
opment, by an international expert (para 5.22).
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.13      Water Supply - The water supply for crop production in the
project area is derived from rainfall and the regulated flow of the
Chambal River. Problems have arisen in obtaining the designed degree of
regulation at the main storage reservoir, due to the need to allocate
more storage than originally planned for flood control. However, an
improved flood prediction system now being implemented should allow a   3
diversion of 3,900 Mm3/annum in at least 88% of the years, with 1,950 Mm
being allocated to the Rajasthan part of the command area under the



- 12 -
existing interstate agreement. During negotiations GOI undertook to inform
the Bank by September 1974, what arrangements it proposes to make for completing
the flood prediction system. Water in the Chambal River is also used for
power production and some conflicts with irrigation use have occurred in the
past. These are unlikely to recur because of changing trends in Irrigation
and power demands and a decision of the Chambal Control Board to give
priority to irrigation use.
4.14      Water Demand - The present irrigation efficiency in the project
area is a low 30Z, reflecting the physical and operational problems
listed in para 3.16. With the project, it is expected that system
efficiency would rise to 50% in Area A and 35% in the other areas. The
average annual diversion requirements at full development of the present
project would be 1,600 Mm3, while if the whole area were developed to
the standard of Area A, the requirement would be 2,000 Mm3, about equal to
the projected supply.  After accounting for the effects of rainfall and
residual soil moisture, the maximum irrigation demand would be 0.53 1/s/ha
commanded and would occur in May. This figure has been used for designing
the improvements to the canal system serving Area A (para 4.04).
4.15      Water Quality - The quality of the applied irrigation water is
very high. While few data are available on the quality of the return
flows for reuse downstream, studies are continuing and no problems are
expected. Further details of water supply, demand and quality are pre-
sented in Annex 3.
Engineering Design
4.16      Detailed designs have been prepared for representative drainage
areas and typical irrigation works only which, in view of the homogeneous
nature of the works, would be sufficient to establish firm cost estimatea.
No problems are expected in preparing designs in pace with construction.
The design procedures for on-farm works are described in Annex 2. Road
designs would be in accordance with Indian Roads Congress standards and
would be based on an expected life of 15 years, after which major rehabili-
tation works may become necessary.
Construction Methods
4.17      Labor intensive methods would be used for most of the project
construction. However, contracts would provide for mobilization advances
to enable contractors to purchase simple tools and machines, where appropriate
to increase the productivity of labor. Certain of the works, notably land
shaping, the compaction of roads and canal banks and the excavation of large
drains in waterlogged conditions, would require mechanical equipment for
efficient construction. About half the drainage excavation would be by
dragline. For heavier land shaping, an elevating scraper has been proposed
as the basic machine (Reference 1), while for lighter land shaping, a small
tractor-drawn scraper or a land plane would be used. Equipment to be
procured under the project is listed in Annex 5. The use of contractors is
discussed in para 4.25.



- 13 -
Implementation Schedule
4.18      Project implementation would take six years and would be
complete by June 1980 (Charts 8597 and 8598). The equipment to be procured
under the project would not be available at the beginning of the first con-
struction season in October 1974, but equipment on hand would be sufficient
to achieve the first year's targets.
Cost Estimates
4.19      The project costs, including interest during construction on the
proposed Loan, are estimated at US$91.5 million, of which the foreign
exchange component would be US$35.0 million, or 38% of the total. Estimated
costs are based on price levels prevailing in December 1973, and include the
effects of a sharp increase in the costs of gasoline and'diesel just prior
to that date. Expected price increases for civil works and fertilizers,
beginning at 17% in the first year and tapering to 11% in the third year and
varying similarly between 12% and 7% for administrative and operating costs,
have been included and are considered reasonable since the project would be
constituted by labor-intensive methods and the cost of labor in India is not
expected to rise as rapidly as world commodity prices. Estimated price
increase equal 44% of the basic cost of the total project. Physical con-
tingencies varying between 10% and 20% have been included, according to the
status of planning and design.
4.20      A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 4 and is
summarized below:
% of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
----Rs Million-----   -----US$ Million----
Irrigation & Drainage         98.4     32.8  131.2   12.3       4.1      16.4    18
On-Farm Development           54.6     29.4   84.0    6.8       3.7      10.5    11
Roads                         37.5     12.5   50.0    4.6       1.6       6.2     7
Afforestation                  1.1      0.1    1.2    0.2       --        0.2   --
Supplmentary Fertilizer        2.6     48.7   51.3    0.3       6.1      6.4      7
Project Administration &
Operating Costs during
Implementation             88.2       9.8   98.0   11.0       1.2     12.2    13
Sub-Total              282.4    133.3  415.7   35.2    16.7        51.9    56
Physical Contingency       23.5       9.0   32.5    3.0       1.1      4.1      4
Estimated Price
Increases              146.1      49.7  195.8   18.3      6.2      24.5    27
Sub-Total              169.6      58.7  228.3   21.3      7.3      28.6    31
Total Project Cost    452.0    192.0  644.0   56.5    24.0         80.5    87
Interest During Construction -         88.0   88.0    -        11.0     11.0    12
Grand Total            452.0    280.0  732.0   56.5    35.0        91.5   100



- 14 -
Financing
4.21      The proposed Loan of US$52.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project (US$35.0 million) and 32% of the local
costs, or 57% of the total project cost. The Loan would be made to G0I and
would have a maturity of 30 years and a seven-year grace period. Irrigation,
drainage, roads and afforestation works would be financed by the GOR from
its development budget, which includes a G0I contribution. As the project
works on the RMC and Kota Barrage also benefit the State of Madhya Pradesh,
part of the cost of irrigation works, estimated at US$5.5 million including
contingencies, would be reimbursed to GOR from Madhya Pradesh, according to
an already agreed formula. Operation and maintenance costs would be financed
by GOR from its regular budget, the amount shown in the project cost estimate
being exclusive of the Madhya Pradesh share.
4.22      Assurances were obtained from G0I that: (a) the proceeds of the
Loan, except disbursements for on-farm development, fertilizer and interest
during construction, would be made available to GOR; and (b) that 00I would
cause GOR to make arrangements in its annual development plans for the
provision of funds required for the implementation of the project in
accordance with a detailed schedule of construction which shall be acceptable
to the Bank. At the same time, GOR has agreed to furnish to the Bank, not
later than February 1 in each year, a detailed project implementation
schedule acceptable to the Bank for the next fiscal year.
4.23      Fertilizer purchases under the project would be financed directly
by the Loan. On-farm development works would be financed mainly by
the farmers, using credit funds provided by G0I and the commercial banks.
Details are given in paras 5.07 to 5.11 and Annexes 7 and 8. Commercial
bank loans would be refinanced 80% by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(ARC) of the GOI, a sound insLitution which has been the channel for
several previous IDA Credits. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Loan would be that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank had
been executed between G0I and ARC.
Procurement
4.24      Vehicles and Equipment - The estimated cost of vehicles and
equipment for project management, force account construction and for hire
to contractors (para 4.17 and Annex 5), is US$8.0 million. Out of this
total, US$5.4 million would be subject to international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of
the cif price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. About
US$1.0 million worth of equipment and vehicles, consisting of groups of
contracts costing less than US$100,000 each, which for reasons of efficiency
are not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through
normal GOR procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. The balance of
US$1.6 million, consisting of vehicles, trucks and water tankers, would be
reserved for local procurement and would not be eligible for reimbursement
out of the proceeds of the Loan.



- 15 -
4.25      Civil Works - A review has been made of the suitability of the
project civil works for grouping into large contracts and the following
conclusions were reached (amounts shown are basic costs, net of physical and
price contingencies but include the cost of materials such as cement, steel
and coal, which are supplied by GOR at a fixed price to the contractors):
(a) Irrigation - (US$10.2 million) - Irrigation works would
be individually small and scattered and would need to
be carried out in periods of canal closure, difficult
to schedule in advance. Under these conditions, it would
not be feasible to group these works into large contracts;
(b) Drainage - (US$6.2 million) - The drainage works would have
to be grouped into one or two large multi-year contracts
in order to be of interest to large contractors. This would
be an inefficient procedure for what are basically simple
repetitive tasks. Moreover, if a large contract were used,
the problems, both for the contractor and the project
engineers, of administering a large work-force scattered
throughout the project area and working intermittently
over five years, would be difficult and likely to result
in high costs. For these reasons, the drainage works
are not considered suitable for a large contract;
(c) On-Farm Development - (US$10.5 million) - These works
would need to be planned and executed at short notice
to coincide with the acceptance of boundary realignment
schemes by the farmers, as well as to avoid the wet
season harvest period. For these reasons, the works
could not be grouped into large multi-year contracts; and
(d) Roads - (US$6.2 million) - Because of the need for the
road program to keep pace with the other project elements,
particularly the provision of adequate drainage, the
works must be spread over five years. These works would
have to be grouped into one contract to be of any interest
to large contractors. For the reasons stated in (b) above,
this would not be an efficient procedure.
Because of the conditions in the project area just described and the nature
of the works to be carried out - the improvement and upgrading of an
operating irrigation system - none of the civil works could be grouped into
contracts large enough to be of interest to interiational contractors. It
is therefore proposed to carry out the works by small, mainly annual,
contracts to be advertised locally or, where this is not practicable, by
force account. Force account works would probably include most of the
irrigation works, the larger drainage works requiring machinery, about half
the on-farm works, and the afforestation works, or about 55% of all the
civil works. The firms likely to bid on small contracts would not possess
the necessary equipment. For road works, the necessary equipment is simple
and unlikely to be misused and would therefore be hired out by the project
organization to successful bidders. For drainage and on-farm development



- 16 -
works, the machinery would be more sophisticated and it has not been possible
to devise a method of making available such machinery to contractors. There-
fore, the portions of these works requiring sophisticated machinery would
be executed by force account.
4.26      Fertilizer - For efficiency, procurement of fertilizer under the
project would be combined with the regular bulk procurement of fertilizer by
the India Tender Board, which is responsible for procuring India's entire
needs for imported fertilizer. Because of the present extremely tight
world supply situation, the India Tender Board's current procedure provides
for "international shopping", which includes seeking price quotations from
possible suppliers, followed by price negotiations with the bidders to obtain
the lowest price. Under the present scarcity conditions, and given the fact
that the project fertilizer should be procured in the first year of project
implementation, the above procedure would be satisfactory to the Bank, pro-
vided at least three quotations are invited.
Disbursements
4.27      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the
cif cost of directly imported equipment: and fertilizer, or the ex-factory
price for equipment manufactured locally, and at the rate of 70% for imported
equipment procured locally. Disbursements for civil works carried out by
contract or by force account would be on a percentage basis. Disbursements
for force account would be made against a certificate of expenditure from
the Command Area Authority, the documentation for which would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by the Authority and would be available for
inspection during project supervision. The estimated schedule of expenditures
on the project, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the Loan, and a
semi-annual disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 6. Any savings in
the Loan account would be reallocated by increasing the percentage disburse-
ment for civil works. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by December 31, 1981, about one year after completion of project construction.
Accounts and Audit
4.28      The Command Area Authority (CAM), as part of a GOR department,
would be subject to normal Government control and auditing procedures.
Assurances were obtained from GOR that the accounts and financial statements
of the CAA would be audited each year in accordance with sound auditing
principles and that certified copies of such financial statement and the
report of such audit would be submitted to the Bank within six months after
the end of each fiscal year.
4.29      A similar assurance was obtained from GOR in respect of the
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC), except that independent
auditors would be required. Auditing procedures for ARC are laid down in
previous Credit Agreements. Assurances were also obtained that ARC would
require the commercial banks participating in the project (para 5.07) to
maintain separate accounts for project lending; and ensure that the annual
audited accounts of such banks (including an analysis of overdues and bad



- 17 -
debts) would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of their
fiscal year, together with a statement of project lending for such banks,
certified by ARC.
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.30      There is no doubt that the construction of the Chambal Irrigation
Project without adequate provision for drainage has led to a deterioration
in public health, through the creation of swampy areas and the contamination
of village wells. The incidence of most forms of water-associated diseases
has increased markedly, malaria and typhoid being the most serious. The
proposed project would do much to alleviate this state of affairs. The
drainage works would eliminate many of the mosquito breeding grounds and
would lower groundwater levels, reducing the risk of polluting village
water suppLies. GOR is aware of these problems and has agreed to consider
the introduction of a program to monitor and control water-associated
diseases. The project extension service would advise farmers on the judicious
selection of pesticides to minimize environmental damage and the research
workers woald monitor the quality of return flows from the project area for
possible injurious effects on downstream uses (Annex 3). The project would
also be a first step in the struggle to control erosion in the area (para
4.09).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation
5.01      This project is among the first of many command area development
projects throughout India scheduled for implementation in the next few years.
Therefore, there has been concern both at the Central and State levels to
devise organizational arrangements which could readily be duplicated else-
where. Because of the nature of the project, maximum coordination of all
project activities is necessary and, in order to achieve this, GOR has
created a Command Area Development and Water Utilization (CAD & WU) Department
at State level and the Chambal Command Area Authority (CAA) in the project
area. Full details are given in Annex 7.
5.02      The CAD & WU Department (Chart 8599) within the Ministry of Agri-
culture, is headed by a Secretary, who is guided on policy matters by a
Coordination Committee for Command Area Development. This committee is
chaired by the Chief Minister and includes the Ministers, Secretaries and
other senior officials of all departments concerned. To assist the Secretary
CAD & WU in his day to day operations a small coordinating committee would
be set up by the Chief Secretary GOR.
5.03      The CAA, which has been established by executive order, is headed
by an Area Development Commissioner, an administrator with the powers
of Chief Engineer (Irrigation), Director of Agriculture, Revenue Divisional
Commissioner and Registrar of Cooperatives. The existing staff of the



- 18 -
Irrigation, Agriculture, Revenue and Cooperative Departments in the project
area would be transferred to the CAA by the end of 1974. As well as having
direct re3ponsibility for these functions, the Commissioner has coordinating
powers fo-- roads, forestry, village development and other relevant activities
in the project area (Chart 8600). To assist in the latter functions, a
Command Area Consultative Committee is being set up, comprising represent-
atives of the district administration and the departments not directly under
the CAA. The GOR Public Works Department (PWD) would create a separate Circle
to design and construct the project roads.
5.04      Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Area Develop-
ment Commissioner would be appointed in consultation with GOI. The estab-
lishment of the CAA, with organization (Annex 7), board membership and powers
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan.
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
5.05      The Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) would be a
statutory corporation to be set up under an Act which has been drafted by
GOR and cleared by ARC. This legislation would, inter alia, empower RLDC
to carry out on-farm development on a compulsory basis. It would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan that RLDC has been duly
established under the laws of Rajasthan with capitalization, board member-
ship and powers satisfactory to the Bank.
5.06      RLDC would have a Board of Directors, chaired by the Secretary,
CAD & WU, and including GOI and ARC representatives, the CAA Commissioner,
the managing director of RLDC and other non-official members. The purpose of
RLDC would be to act as a financial intermediary for the on-farm development
component of the project, which would be largely financed by credit to the
farmers, since GOR budgetary funds are serierely limited. RLDC's authorized
share capital of Rs 100 million, would be subscribed equally by GOI and GOR
and would be used as operating capital to provide advances to the CAA for
on-faim works and equipment purchases. Full details of RLDC, including
financial statements, are given in Annex 8.
Financing of On-Farm Development Works
5.07      For on-farm development works, a cost estimate for each farm
would be prepared by the CAM and passed to the RLDC. The RLDC would
determine the farmer's eligibility for a commercial bank loan and, if
eligible, would prepare a loan application which would be submitted to a
selected commercial bank. The amount of the loan would cover the full cost
of on-farm, development less any subsidy (para 5.11). The banks would have
the power to reject applications but only on well-defined criteria, which
would be laid down under their refinancing agreements with ARC (para 4.23).
5.08      Commercial bank loans to the farmers would have a maturity of up
to 15 years, with interest of not less than 9.5% and a grace period of n-t
^-re than two years.  The financial impact of the likely terms is discussed
in para 6.06. These loans would be secured by a mortgage on the land holding



- 19 -
and the banks would be solely responsible for loan recovery. ARC would
refinance 80% of the commercial loans at its standard interest rate, currently
7%.
5.09      Farmers ineligible for commercial loans would receive an unsecured
"especial loan" from RLDC, using funds provided by GOI. The usual reasons for
ineligibility include: lack of a clear title, arrears in loan repayments to
Government agencies, temple lands and the refusal to accept a commercial
loan. GOR has agreed to update land records and carry out a campaign to
recover debts to State and local Government agencies and banks before
carrying out on-farm development in any area. Even with such a campaign, it
is estimated that up to 30% of the on-farm works would require special loans.
5.10      Special loans would normally have stiffer terms than commercial
loans, in order to give an incentive for farmers to become eligible for the
latter. Farmers receiving special loans who later became eligible for a
commercial loan would be encouraged to convert, so as to reduce RLDC's
liabilities. Farmers who are eligible for, but refuse to accept, commercial
loans would have to pay an additional interest penalty. Special loans
would be recovered through a surcharge on the existing land tax.
5.11      GOI would subsidize certain categories of disadvantaged farmers
under its program to alleviate rural poverty. These categories would
include small farmers (bona fide farmers owning less than 2 ha), marginal
farmers (owning less than 1 ha), who would receive a subsidy up to 33% of
the cost of development, farmers with excessive land shaping costs (Annex 4),
and farmers whose land has been seriously damaged by salinity. In the latter
case, which applies to only about 5% of the area, the subsidy would equal
those costs of land reclamation which are determined to be beyond the farmer's
capacity to pay. GOI has agreed to send to the Bank by the end of 1974
details of the guidelines to be applied in these cases. Cash subsistence
payments would be provided to farmers who are likely to forego a rabi crop
during the construction of on-farm works on their holding by including these
amounts in the land development costs of all farmers in a chak, and disbursing
to affected farmers in the amounts required.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.12      To maximise the benefits of the proposed investments in physical
facilities, complementary and closely coordinated efforts are needed in all
the agricultural supporting services. The present status and proposed
-improvements for each service are described below. Reference 3 gives full
details of the plan for extension services in the project area, which is
being implemented by GOR. Other supporting services are described in detail
in Annex 9.
5.13      Research - Research on rice and sugarcane is being undertaken in
the project area and applied research on water use, fertilizer response and
soil fertility is being carried out at two stations. These programs would
be continued under the project, as they are well oriented to the needs of
the area, and special emphasis would be given to problems of consumptive



- 20 -
use and the quality of drainage water. The project would finance needed
buildings, equipment and vehicles for the research stations and ten short
study trips by research workers to nearby countries.  Cooperation between
research and extension personnel would be facilitated by a proposed Project
Extension Council.
5.14      Extension- All crop extension activities in the project area at
present are under the State Department of Agriculture and there are about
12 professional officers and 90 village level workers (VLW's) in the area.
The VLW's are administratively responsible to the panchayats (village councils)
and devote only a quarter of their time to extension work. While the
basic extension structure is adequate, much needs to be done to improve its
effectiveness. A special Project Extension Service has been set up and
a Director, reporting to the Joint Director of Agriculture in the CAM (Chart
8600) has been selected. The extension organization would consist of three
District Extension Officers, 15 Agricultural Extension Officers and 120 VLW's
(one to 300 farmers). All the VLW's would work solely on extension and
would contact the farmers through a progressive farmer in each group of 40
farmers. The progressive farmer would be selected from the better and
trusted farmers in each group and would work one or two days a week for the
extension service and receive a small salary. Provision has been made under
the project for the necessary vehicles and equipment for the extension
service and for operating costs during project implementation.
5.15      Extension efforts would be concentrated initially on the major
crops, with special emphasis on improvements not requiring cash outlays from
the farmers. Training and refresher courses would be held for each level of
extension worker and the extension program would be continuously evaluated
and programs updated to meet the changing needs of the project area farmers.
5.16      Soil Surveys - The soil survey unit of the Department of Agriculture
is carrying out a semi-detailed soil survey of the project area, which is 15%
complete at present. This work would be continued, in coordination with
project construction, with special emphasis on deeper sampling for sub-surface
drainage purposes.
5.17      Fertilizer - The project farmers are strongly aware of the need
for fertilizer and would use optimum amounts, at least on high-yielding
varieties of wheat and paddy, if supplies were available. Nationally,
fertilizer supplies are at about 60% of demand but, in the project area,
availability seems to be as low as 30%. Fertilizers are allocated through
cooperatives, private dealers and Government Shops, with irrigated areas
receiving a higher allocation. India's import program has had to be cut
back because of a doubling in world prices and world-wide scarcities but
recent Bank surveys show that the fertilizer supply situation in India
should ease over the next five years, as new plants are constructed and the
price of imports declines.
5.18      The need for assured supplies of fertilizer is especially critical
for the 50,000 ha selected for on-farm development and for this area supple-
mental fertilizer supplies would be procured under the project (para 4.11).



- 21 -
Proposed arrangements for distribution are described in Annex 9. Project
fertilizer would be sold to the farmers at the prevailing market price.
5.19      Seed - The main source of new seed in the project area is a GOR
seed farm but quality control and marketing and distribution arrangements
are unsatisfactory. GOR has recognized the need for state-wide improvements
in seed multiplication and distribution and has agreed to prepare, within
one year of Loan signing, a project to meet this need. As the projected
benefits used in project evaluation are based on present conditions of seed
availability, the proposed seed project would enhance the economic viability
of the present project.
5.20      Farmers' Organizations - Multi-purpose cooperatives are the major
farmers' organizations concerned with agricultural production. They accept
deposits, offer short and medium term credit, hire machinery, distribute
fertilizer, construct warehouses and offer some marketing services. There
are over 400 primary level cooperatives in the two districts of the project
area and about 35% of the farmers are members. The management strength
of the cooperatives varies considerably: some are financially healthy and
are able to offer a full range of services; others are almost moribund.
The CAA would have a Cooperatives Department responsible for strengthening
the management, expanding the membership and improving the financial perfor-
mance of the cooperatives, whose role in supplying credit and other
services would expand under the project. Other farmers' organizations
include the irrigation associations (para 5.23) and the panchayats (village
councils), both of which would act as channels of communication between the
project staff and the farmers.
5.21      Agricultural Credit - Sources of production credit in the project
area include private money lenders, the cooperatives and commercial banks.
Longer-term loans are provided by the Land Development Banks and the
commercial banks. Terms and conditions of the institutional lenders are
satisfactory and some subsidies are available to disadvantaged farmers.
However, their overall lending volume is limited, mainly by an unsatisfactory
level of loan recovery. Institutional credit would grow under the project
to about Rs 150 million per annum at full development, principally through
an expansion of the role of the commercial banks. Farmers receiving
commercial on-farm development loans would have automatic access to production
credit from the commercial banks. The cooperatives would be encouraged
to orient their credit programs to the remaining project area farmers. GOR
has agreed to take steps to ensure adequate availability of production credits
for project farmers from participating banks and cooperatives.
Technical Assistance and Training
5.22      While the project staff have had adequate training and experience
in most types of work included in the project, there are some specialized
areas where additional technical assistance or training would be required,
especially for the planning, design and construction of on-farm development,
where special attention would need to be given to surveying, cost estimating
and construction methods. Assurances were obtained from GOR that a land



- 22 -
development expert, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank, would be recruited by September 31, 1974, for a period of two years.
Draft terms of reference are given in Annex 7. Project engineers would be
given in-service training in drainage planning by personnel from CWPC and
the universities. It was also agreed during negotiations that CWPC would
carry out hydrologic studies (Annex 3), that the Survey of India would
provide a senior officer on one or two years' secondment to organise the
Survey Unit of the Land Development Circle, and that appropriate experts
would be seconded to assist with the other studies mentioned in para 4.12.
Proposals for in-service training of extension workers are described in
Reference 3.
Operation and Maintenance
5.23      Operation and maintenance (O & M) of the irrigation system is the
responsibility of the Irrigation Department. Except for the RMC, which is
partly funded by Madhya Pradesh, the quality of 0 & M is not satisfactory,
due to design inadequacies, which would be removed under the project, and
a shortage of funds. Drainage maintenance is being completely neglected
at present. The project would provide vehicles and equipment for 0 & M and
would finance recurrent costs during project implementation. The cost of
adequate maintenance has been provisionally estimated at Rs 32/ha (US$4/ha)
for the irrigation system and an equal amount for the drainage system.
O & M of the project works within the chak would be the responsibility of
the farmers concerned, organized into irrigation associations for each chak.
Under the warabandi system, a strict rotational irrigation schedule would
be drawn up to allocate water according, to the size of each holding. 0 & M
deficiencies in any chak would be reported to the assistant engineer, who
has magisterial powers to fine or even jail offenders, if the deficiencies are
not rectified. The warabandi system was introduced only in 1972 and is work-
ing successfully in 10-15% of the chaks at present. Roads would continue to
be maintained by the PWD. The present standard of maintenance is unsatisfac-
tory, due to continued flooding and waterlogging and shortages of equipment
and funds, all of which would be alleviated by the project.  The cost of
adequate maintenance would be about Rs 5,300/km.
5.24      Assurances were obtained from GOR that it would furnish to the
Bank not later than December 31 in each year, estimates for the cost of
operation and maintenance of the project works referred to above for the
next fiscal year, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request for
the Bank's comments. GOR has also agreed to expand the system of rotational
irrigation to the entire project area by June 30, 1976.
Cost Recovery
5.25      Water charges, intended to cover the 0 & M cost of the irriga-
tion system, are being levied on all land actually irrigated, with dif-
ferent charges for the various crops. The average charge is Rs 30/ha,
somewhat less than the cost of adequate 0 & M of the irrigation system
(para 5.23). A betterment levy of Rs 220/ha for farms over 2 ha has been
collected in installments since 1964 to repay part of the capital cost



- 23 -
of the Chambal Irrigation Project and a lump sum of Rs 32/ha was levied
in 1965 to pay for watercourse construction. Recovery of these levies
has not been satisfactory. In order to recover part of the investment
in project irrigation and drainage facilities, a betterment levy of
Rs 360/ha over ten years would be required. This amount is equal to half the
capital cost of the project (without interest) and is in accordance with
the recommendations of the Second Irrigation Commission (para 2.09). The
farm budgets (Annex 13) show that such a charge would be within the capacity
of farmers in Areas A and B to pay and it would also be of substantial
benefit to the GOR budget. The present worth of the project irrigation and
drainage capital and recurrent costs, without price contingencies and the
share of Madhya Pradesh, is Rs 199 million, using a discount rate of 12% and
a thirty-year evaluation period. The present worth of revenues from the
proposed irrigation and drainage charges and the betterment levy would be
Rs 128 million, implying a cost recovery ratio of 64%. The exact amount
of the charge and recovery terms would be established by a special GOR
comittee as explained below.
5.26      Assurances were obtained from GOR that it would:
(a)  not later than June 30, 1976, levy and collect irrigation
charges from farmers in the project area in amounts sufficient
to cover the annual cost of operating and maintaining the
irrigation system;
(b)  not later than two years after the completion of drainage
facilities in a drainage sub-basin, levy and collect from
farmers in such sub-basin a charge additional to the
irrigation charge under (a) in amounts sufficient to cover
the annual maintenance of such facilities;
(c)  adjust the charges under (a) and (b) periodically to ensure
that total yearly receipts from such charges equal the
projected yearly operating and maintenance costs of the
irrigation and drainage systems; and
(d)  establish a committee and cause such a committee to
recommend, not later than December 31, 1978, arrangements
for the recovery of project costs to the extent practicable,
over a period of not more than 50 years, which would take
into account the farmers' incentive and capacity to pay.
Upon receipt of the committee's recommendations, GOR would
furnish them to the Bank and after consideration of the
committee's recommendations, make arrangements for the
recovery of such costs.
Monitoring of Project Benefits
5.27      A small group attached to the Area Development Commissioner would
he responsible for monitoring oroject benefits. i-cluding the compilation
of statistics on cropping patterns and yields, farm management surveys and
other special studies.



- 24
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would lead to a more intensive
cropping pattern and higher yields. Cropping intensity for the whole
project area would increase from the present 87% to 111% at full develop-
ment, of which the irrigated proportion would be 100% (Annex 11). Area A
would have the greatest cropping intensity, about 150%, of which 135%
would be irrigated. Yields would increase due to improvement in water
control, the provision of drainage and the proposed improvements in
supporting services. Projected yields at full development are only
moderate by world standards and are already being achieved by some farmers
in the project area.
6.02      Production of wheat, the major crop and the staple food of the
region, would increase from 117,000 tons at present to 240,000 tons at
full development. Paddy would increase from 12,000 tons to 72,000 tons
and production of sorghum, another important foodgrain, would more than
double, to 28,000 tons. Total production of oilseeds, groundnuts and
pulses, which are important in the predominantly vegetarian diet of the
region, would increase from 31,000 tons at present to 79,000 tons at
full development and similar increases are expected for other crops.
Sugarcane, though continuing to occupy a very small part of the area
(1.6%), would yield about 260,000 tons compared with 65,000 tons at present.
Market Prospects
6.03      As almost all the crops of the area are food crops, which are in
short supply throughout India, few marketing problems are expected. Some
crops, such as paddy and coriander, would be mainly sold to other parts
of the country, while the other produce would be either retained for home
consumption or sold locally. The projected increase in production would place
a severe strain on the marketing system. Existing market facilities are
congested and unsanitary and the poor road system means that marketing is time
consuming and lower prices are received. GOR has a program to improve
marketing facilities but progress is likely to be slow due to budgetary
constraints. This has been taken into account in projecting prices
(para 6.05).
Processing and Storage
6.04      Adequate facilities for processing the present production of
sugar, rice, oilseeds and pulses exist in and around the project area.
For most crops, it is expected that capacity would expand with increased
production, mainly in the private sector. Additional sugar processing
capacity would be needed, however, and GOR has agreed to prepare, within
one year of Loan signing, a proposal for expanding the existing mill and
constructing a new mill. Failure to construct these mills would result
in a smaller increase in sugarcane production than projected but would not
affect the economic viability of the project. Storage facilities in and



- 25 -
around the project area (including a 20,000 ton wheat silo at Kota, partially
financed by Credit 267-IN) are adequate for present needs and proposed
investments by GOR, the cooperatives and the private sector should cover
the needs of the project area. Further details on processsing and storage
are given in Annex 12.
Prices
6.05      The farm-gate prices used for the major crops (paddy, wheat,
sorghum and maize) were derived from Bank forecasts for 1980 of world
market prices. These prices correspond well with actual farm-gate prices
in the project area in recent "normal" years. For the other crops,
production is relatively small and is consumed domestically. Actual farm-
gate prices over the last few years, adjusted to early-1974 price levels,
were used both for economic and financial analysis. Full details are given
in Annex 12.
Farm Income and Repayment Capacity
6.06      Four farm sizes were examined:  2 ha (representative of the large
number of small farmers who are eligible for a 25% subsidy (para 5.11)
for on-farm development); 3 ha (a small but unsubsidized unit): 4 ha (the
average farm size) and 6 ha (a large farm). Three cropping patterns were
tested: a "high-average income" pattern, which emphasized the high-income
crops, an "average income" pattern, and a "low income" pattern, which
assumes that the higher-income crops might be constrained by water supply
or marketing difficulties. The development period was conservatively
estimated at 8 years and appropriate assumptions were made for water
charges, hired labor and family consumption. Results are shown in Annex
13 and are summarized below:
Net Farm Income
Area   Farm Size   Cropping Pattern        in Year 8        Repayment in Year 8
(ha)                               (Rs)        (Rs)  (% of net income)
A         2.0       low income               4,010          930           23
2.0      average-high              5,550         930           17
3.0      low income                6,010       1,750           29
6.0      low income               10,300       3,470           34
B         4.0       average income           3,860          300            8
C         4.0       average income           2,600          270           10
Present farm income is about Rs 500/ha. The repayment item includes the
proposed water charges and betterment levy (para 5.25) and, for Area A
only, the debt service on a loan of Rs 2,750/ha for on-farm development.
The projected cash flow statements in Annex 13 show that repayment over
ten years of a loan of this size at 10% interest would be feasible, if two
years' grace is allowed. Therefore, Rs 2,750/ha is proposed as a ceiling
for on-farm development (para 4.06). The proportion of net farm income
required for repayment would not be excessive, although the burden would
be greater in the earlier years, and should give the farmers an adequate
incentive to participate in the project.



- 26 -
6.07      Under present conditions, the median family income in the project
area is about Rs 1,200/yr. At full development, median income would rise
to about Rs 3,000/yr. The present median per capita income is equivalent
to US$25/yr, compared with a national median of US$33/yr. About 55% of the
project area farmers fall within the lowest 40% of the national income
scale. However, because of the skewed farm size distribution (para 3.09),
these farmers account for only 15% of the project area. If holdings below
0.5 ha are excluded from the definition of a farm, as such micro-holdings
are generally owned by town dwellers and merchants in this part of India,
then about 25% of the area is owned by farmers with income below the
national 40-percentile level.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Agricultural development in the Chambal Command Area has fallen
short of expectations at the time the Irrigation project was constructed.
The main factors for this poor performance were: failure to provide a
proper drainage system and road network; poor water control due to design
inadequacies in the main system and the absence of on-farm development;
unsatisfactory maintenance, due to a lack of funds; and, inadequate agri-
cultural supporting services. The proposed project would be the first
phase of a ten-year program to remedy these shortcomings throughout the
229,000 ha area, which supports a rural population of 350,000. The project
would also alleviate the chronic problems of unemployment and underemployment
in the area by creating the equivalent of 20,000 full-time agricultural
jobs over the next decade. In addition, there would also be a significant
increase in employment opportunities in the services sector. The project
would have a negligible effect on India's exports but would be an import-
ant step in GOI's efforts to increase the domestic food supp'y and eliminate
the need for food imports.
7.02      At full development, the annual gross value of production, at
constant 1974 prices, is projected to increase from Rs 200 million at present
to Rs 480 million at full development. Pricing all labor at its opportunity
cost, determined by estimating the demand for labor on a monthly basis and
applying appropriate shadow wage rates (Annex 14), the incremental net value
of production at full development would be Rs 102 million (US$13 million) per
annum.
7.03      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be
about 19%, assuming: a 30-year project evaluation period; full development
9 years after project commencement; the prices for inputs and outputs given
in Annex 12; and shadow pricing of farm labor at rates such that the in-
cremental labor requirement with the project is priced at about 75% of the
market wage rate for hired labor in peak periods (Annex 14). The rate of
return is not very sensitive to the assumption made in evaluating labor.
The rate of return is, however, rather sensitive to the pace of agricultural
development, which emphasizes the need for an effective extension service.
The fairly hIgh rate of return is due in part to the considerable sunk



- 27 -
costs in the irrigation system, which have not yet produced commensurate
benefits, and in part to the inherent high returns from projects incorporat-
ing on-farm development.
7.04      By allocating project costs between Area A, B and C, separate
rates of return were calculated for each area. These were 24%, 14% and
12% respectively, showing that investments in each area are separately
justified but that the highest returns are obtained when on-farm develop-
ment is carried out.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOI that:    I
(a)  it would allocate yearly to the State of Rajasthan between
1975 and 1984 fertilizer in the quantity and of the types
financed out nf the proceeds of the Loan (para 4.11).
Agreement was also reached with GOR on the following principal points:
(b)  fertilizer in the quantity and of the types to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan would be
made available to farmers in Area A of the project and
all possible steps would be taken to ensure that the
balance of farmers' fertilizer requirements over that
part financed under the project would be met (para 4.11);
(c)  a land development expert, with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, would be recruited by September 31,
1974, for a period of two years (para 5.22); and
(d)  GOR would levy and collect an irrigation charge, and in
areas where drainage facilities are being constructed a
drainage charge, in amounts sufficient to cover the annual
cost of operating and maintaining these facilities. These
charges would be adjusted periodically (para 5.26).
8.02      Proposed conditions of Loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
had been executed between GOI and ARC (para 4.23);
(b)  the establishment of the CAA, with organization, board
membership and powers satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.04);
and
(c)  the establishment of the RLDC, with capitalization, board
membership and powers satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.05).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$52.0
million, with a 30-year maturity and a seven-year grace period. The borrower
would be India.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Climatic Data
1.        The project area is a relatively homogeneous climatic unit, with
moderate to hot temperatures throughout the year providing a potential
twelve-month growing season. The climate is sub-tropical and three seasons
may be distinguished: the kharif or wet season (June to September), when
the moisture-laden southwest monsoon prevails; the cooler rabi or winter
season (October to February), under the influence of dry northeast winds;
and the very hot, dry pre-monsoon season (March to May). About 90% of
the mean raLnfall occurs during the wet season, with July being the peak
rainfall month. The mean average yearly rainfall over the project area is
about 850 mm (Table 1), with wide variations from year to year. Under
rainfed conditions, drought-resistant crops such as sorghum can be grown
in kharif but with a heavy risk of failure in low rainfall years. The nature
*of the soils in the project area (para 3.05) is such that sufficient soil
moisture can be stored to grow crops, mainly wheat, in the rabi season,
without further rainfall.
2.        Although cold temperatures are occasionally recorded, the average
daily minimum for the winter months is about 12C and the area is frost-free.
Temperatures are cool enough during the rabi season that paddy growing is
not feasible in that season, due to pollination difficulties. Humidity
varies considerably, being very low between March and May and moderately
high in the kharif. Pan evaporation follows a similar trend but, in addi-
tion, is relatively low during the cool rabi growing season. The yearly
total pan evaporation is 2,400 mm.
3.        The main climatic constraint under non-irrigated conditions in
the Chambal area is the short duration of the wet season and the variability
of rainfall. The introduction of fully controlled irrigation, as well as
drainage, under the project would remove these constraints. Perennial
irrigation would permit cropping calendars to be advanced, taking advantage
of the greater hours of sunshine in May and June and making more effective
use of resicual soil moisture in the rabi season. An assured water supply
would also permit more profitable crop rotations (Annex 11).
4.        The climate in the catchment area of the Chambal River is generally
similar to that in the project area, resulting in erratic river flows under
unregulated conditions. The effect of the existing storage reservoirs
on the water supply for the project area is described in Annex 3.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Climatic Data
Average                        Rainfall
Air Temperature                       Mean      Monthly Pan    Mean      Wettest      Driest      Heaviest
Mean                  Extreme             Relative    Evaporation   Monthly   Month on   Month on    Rainfall
Month        Maximum   Minimum       Highest    Lowest        Humidity        Rate        Total      Record     Recored   in one day
o                            8.30 17.30
-      C-         -      -      -~~~~~~~~~--nlours--
--- --- -- -- - C c- - - - -- - - - - -Ai    - - - - - --      --- - -   ----- -__--_-----_ _-____---__________________-
January          24.5       10.6         33.9        1.7        64   34         114           9           40         0           36
February         28.5       13.1         38.3       2.3         51   25         151           4           79         0           51
March            34.1       18.5         42.8        9.9        34   18         256           5           31         0           20
April            39.0       24.4         45.6       14.4        24   13         334           5           55         0           26
May              42.6       29.7         47.8       18.9        28   16         403           7           77          0          53
June             40.3       29.5         47.8      21.1         47   35         328          79          225         0          132
July             33.3       26.4         47.2      20.4         74   65         180         309          714        30          249
August           31.7       24.4         41.1       18.9        81   69         104         268          704         21         172
September        33.1       24.7         40.6      20. 0        73   58         128         132          479         4          186
October          34.5       21.0         41.1       13.4        53   34         170          15          156          0          98
November         30.8       14.8         37.2        7.8        51   29         134           6           76          0          54
December         26.7       11.3         33.9        3.9        61   35         110           3           52          0          30
Annual Mean
or Extreme       33.3       20.8         47.8        1.7        53   36       2,412          842       1,593        172          249
Station     Kota
Lat.        25° 11' N.
Long.       750 51' E.
Height                                           Means based on observations from 1931 to 1960.
above                                                                                                                        mjX
M.S.I L.    2: 5/                                Extrrme       s b bsed or, observations from 1901    1960.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
CIIfBAL CONMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Project Works
A. Past Development
1.        The Chambal Irrigation Project is one of the larger irrigation
and power projects to have been built in India since independence. The Chambal
River, which is the major tributary to the Ganga system arising in the
south, has its headwaters and the major part of its catchment area in
Madhya Pradesh State (Map 10886). It then crosses a portion of Rajasthan
State and eventually forms the border between Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh
before joining the Yamuna, the southern branch of the Ganga system, about
100 km east of Agra.
2.        Project construction began in 1953 and continued until 1971, with
irrigation water being available since 1960.  The main features of the
system are as follows:
(a)  Gandhi Sagar Dam - a masonry structure, 64 m high with a
reservoir storage of 7,750 Mm3 and a reservoir area of
690 km2, the second largest in India. The power station
has a capacity of 119 MW;
(b)  Rana Pratap Sagar Dam - a masonry structure, 54 m high,
with a gross storage of 2,900 Mm3 and an installed power
capacity of 172 MW;
(c)  Jawahar Sagar Dam - a 45 m high concrete gravity structure
with little storage and 100 MW of installed power;
(d)  Kota Barrage - a concrete structure about 20 m high, with
steel gates, to direct water into the canal system. It
is situated on the outskirts of the city of Kota; and
(e)  Canal System - two main canals take off from the Kota
Barrage. The Right Main Canal (RMC) runs for 130 km
in Rajasthan and a further 242 km in Madhya Pradesh.
The two major branches of the Left Main Canal (LMC) total
168 km in length. Branch, distributary and minor canals
in the Rajasthan System command an irrigable area of
229,000 ha in the districts of Kota and Bundi, while a
similar area is commanded by the Madhya Pradesh System.
Almost all the canals are unlined.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        The project did not include any drainage construction and did not
initially provide watercourses, to convey water from the outlets from the
minor canals to individual farm holdings. It was envisaged that the farmers
would do thtis themselves, by constructing small unlined channels along the
field boundaries through individual or cooperative effort. However, without
adequate guidance, such watercourses as were constructed were of very low
standard and set out in a very haphazard manner. Therefore, in 1965, the
Government decided to construct watercourses for the farmers, with part
of the cost being charged to them in the form of a levy of Rs 32/ha. The
watercourses are unlined ditches about 20 cm deep along the existing lot
boundaries and serve directly a majority of the fields. The remaining fields
are served by field ditches constructed by the farmers. The area served
by a watercourse, the chak, has an average area of 35 ha.
4.        The gross project area in Rajasthan is about 485,000 ha, compared
to the culturable commnnd or irrigable area of 229,000 ha. The non-irrigable
area consists of ravines and erosion guLlies and a few high spots but rainfed
crops are grown on much of this area. The area actually irrigated has
reached only 165,000 ha or so for a var:Lety of reasons. Due to a lack
of water control and low irrigation efficiences, water has not reached the
lower ends of the distribution system.  Farmers have been reluctant to use
irrigation water, for which they must pay, when their major problem is
waterlogging (para 8).  For these reasons, agricultural development in the
Chambal Project Area has not fulfilled expectations at the time the irrigation
project was constructed. Further details are given in paras 7 and 8 below.
The following nomenclature is used for the canal system, in decreasing order
of size: main, branch, distributary, minor, watercourse, and field channel.
The UNDP Project
5.        In 1967, the Government of India, with assistance from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), with the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) of the United Nations as the executing agency, embarked on a project
entitled "Land and Water Use and Management in the Chambal Irrigated Area,
Rajasthan". The aims of the project were:
to find means to protect against salinity and water
logging; to study the problem of weed control in existing
irrigation canals and drains; to design and execute
irrigation improvement, landshaping and drainage on pilot
areas; to develop proper water management principles for
existing water resources and make recommendations on their
development; and to develop proper land use patterns and
farm practices for the intensification of agriculture.
6.        The UNDP/FAO project was completed in 1973 and a final report
is being prepared. Conclusions reached as a result of the study form the
basis for the present project and are referred to below. One of the major
thrusts of the UNDP project was the development of a system of on-farm
development, suited to this area, which also forms the basis for part of
the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Lack of Water Control
7.        Irrigation system design inadequacies, including a lack of control
structures, mean that the system can only be operated at full capacity.
There is thus insufficient flexibility to meet in an optimal manner the
water needs of the various crops grown. System capacity is often reduced
due to aquatic weed infestations (made worse by the very clear water
diverted into the system), which have not been kept under control due to
inadequate funds for maintenance. At the farm level, inadequately con-
structed and maintained watercourses mean that much water is wasted, mostly
through gross leakage rather than seepage, and field efficiency is very
low (Annex 3). In most of the project area, there is no enforced system
of rotational irrigation (known locally as warabandi) with the result
that landowners near the head of the watercourses, or on watercourses near
the head of the minor, tend to get more than their allocation of irrigation
water while those less favorably situated get little or none. Parts of
the nominal command area have never received irrigation water.
Waterlogging
8.        Large parts of the command area are subject to waterlogging, which
has led to declining yields over large areas and, by 1973, to a cessation
of production on about 5% of the area, which is now too saline for growing
crops. Map 10887 shows the area which has a water table less than 3 m from
the surface, based on measurements from village wells. This area has
increased year by year and in 1973 it was about 140,000 ha. The reason
for the waterlogging is clear: excessive leakage and seepage from the
canal system coupled with a lack of any artifical surface or sub-surface
drainage. The precise mechanism of waterlogging is less clear. However,
the following all appear to play a part:
(a) Surface ponding - the flat terrain, inadequate natural
drainage and the blocking of some natural drains by
roads or canals lead to ponding of water in certain
areas for up to two weeks, following heavy monsoon
rainfalls. Ponding also occurs in low-lying areas and
borrow pits adjacent to the canals as a result of
seepage through the poorly compacted canal banks;
(b) Soil moisture - it is unlikely that there is much
horizontal percolation through the heavy black clay soils
which cover most of the area to a depth of 1-2 m (para 3.05).
Iowever, along the contact zone with the deeper yellow-
brown clay soil (the murrum layer), permeability is much
higher and empirical evidence suggests that horizontal
movement occurs mainly at this level. In the absence of
sub-surface drainage, water then percolates vertically
upwards, saturating the upper layer and leaching salts
into the root zone. Many of the canals penetrate the
murrum layer, intensifying this problem; and



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) Fractured rock - the southern fringe of the project area,
through which the major canals pass, is underlain at shallow
depth by fractured sandstones and limestones. At several
locations the main canals penetrate these strata and
measurements have confirmed that heavy water losses take
place in these locations. Waterlogging through this
mechanism may appear several km from the canal itself.
There is also considerable recharge of these strata where
they meet the surface south of the project area.
9.        Wlile all the above causes of waterlogging, especially the last,
were in existence prior to the construction of the irrigation system, their
effects have been intensified by the importation of large volumes of
irrigation water, especially where irrigation efficiencies have been low
(para 4). Other factors inhibiting agricultural development include a
lack of knowledge of how to use irrigation effectively, the weakness of the
extension services and the lack of essential inputs, such as seed and
fertilizer. These factors are discussed in Annex 9. The inadequacy of
the road network is discussed in Part D below.
Project Formulation
10.       The Government of Rajasthan (GOR), realizing the inadequacies
of the Chambal system as described above, has devised a ten-year program
to correct the above deficiencies over the whole command area and, in
addition, to undertake on-farm development on about half the area. The
present project would constitute the first six years of this program and
would include the most urgently needed works. While it would be desirable
to complete the drainage, irrigation and road works as quickly as possible,
limited GOR budgetary resources dictate a rather slower pace. Irrigation
and drainage works to be included in the project are described in Part B.
On-farm development, which is described in detail in Part C below, is a
new activity in Rajasthan and it will necessarily take some time to build
up the required organizational capacity. For this reason, on-farm develop-
ment under the present project would be limited to 50,000 ha, even though
it would be financed by credit and is therefore not limited by budgetary
resources. The project also contains provisions for a feasibility study
for a second-stage project, assistance in operation and maintenance (Annex
10), technical assistance, inputs and agricultural supporting services
(Annex 9).



ANNEX 2
Page 5
B. Irrigation and Drainage Works
11.       The following works are included in the project:
(a)  Drainage;
(b) Lining;
(c) Canal capacity improvement;
(d) Control structures;
(e) Aquatic weed control; and
(f) Miscellaneous works.
These are described in detail below.
Drainage
12.       Drainage would be provided for 167,000 ha (73% of the project
area) under the present project. It is expected that the remaining area
would be drained under the proposed second-stage project. Priority would
be given to areas in which agricultural production has stagnated or declined
due to severe waterlogging (para 8) and areas which are included in the
on-farm development program (para 39). However, as planning for the drainage
program has been somewhat piecemeal and unrelated to the other project
elements now proposed, a drainage master plan would be drawn up in the first
year of the project, which would set priorities and determine the optimum
drainage needs for each area. About 30,000 ha of the project area has
benefitted from some drainage work over the past few years, as a result
of GOR drought relief rural works programs. However, this work was done
to low standards and was not maintained, due to a lack of funds, and its
value in the ultimate drainage system is questionable.
13.       Seventy-four drainage sub-basins ccvering ani area of 65,000 ha
have already been identified as having severe waterlogging problems. Pre-
liminary designs have been prepared for over 20 of these and detailed designs
and cost estimates have been made for four basins, of varying sizes. Tlhe
cost of the drainage program has been based on costs per unit area derived
from these test cases. Drainage sub-basins would typically cover 1,000 to
10,000 ha of irrigable area. In each sub-basin, a main drain would be
constructed as well as several secondary drains, at about 500 m spacing,
and seepage drains alongside the irrigation canals. The seepage drains
would be relatively shallow and would directly intercept water seeping from
the canals. The inain and secondary drains would be comparatively deep -
deep enough to intercept the murrum layer (para 8), where feasible. Where
the murrum layer is deeper than about 2 m, vertical sand drains would be
constructed in the bed of the main drain to intercept the murrum layer and



ANNEX 2
Page 6
thus allow a measure of sub-surface drainage, in order to ensure a net
downward flow of water through the soil layer.
14.       The small number of drains previously constructed (para 12) were
designed empirically for a discharge of 0.55 1/s/ha, following the recom-
mendation of the Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC). More recent
studies have shown, however, that this figure is too low. Based on a one-
day storm with a return period of five years, and an acceptable crop sub-
mergence period of 40 to 72 hours, the Rational Method gives a design
runoff of 2.35 1/s/ha. However, this method of analysis should be regarded
as approximate only. In order to refine this estimate and gain more insight
into the rainfall-runoff process in the project area, it would be necessary
to measure runoff directly. For this purpose, about eight flow measuring
devices would be installed under the project in drains with various catch-
ment areas and the services of the CWPC would be used as required to analyse
the data.
15.       The above design runoff given by the Rational Method has been
reduced to 1.6 1/s/ha, to allow for the fact that most of the land is bunded
to conserve moisture and runoff is thereby retarded. For economic reasons,
a staged construction approach would be followed. For the drainage
works to be constructed under the project, structures would be built for an
ultimate discharge of 2.35 1/s/ha, land would be acquired for 1.6 1/s/ha
but, in the first stage, drain excavation would be carried out only for
1.1 1/s/ha, as it is estimated that the residual flood damage would be
outweighed by the benefits of extending drainage to a greater area, given
the limited funds available. Drainage clesign critiera would be revised
as further data become available on raifall-runoff relationships from
the measuring devices to be installed urder the project (para 14).
Lining
16.       EKcessive leakage or seepage cccurs liainly in the following situa-
tions: rock-cut reaches (para 8 (c)); crab-infested reaches; earthen
reaches in fill, where bank compaction x;as poor; or, earthen reaches in cut,
where the canal penetrates the murrun layer (para 8(b)).  Under the project,
linina woull be used very selectively to renedy the worst cases, while
elsewhere low-cost seenage drains would be constructed to alleviate the
e-fects of seepage (para 13).  Proposed lining works are listed in'Table 1
and shown on 1Map 10887.
17.       In the rock-cut reaches, whic'; occur mainly on the Rt'C, LMC and
Bundi Branch Canal, the canal floor would be leveled with rubble masonry
and lined with 3 cm of plain concrete. The sides of the canal would be
lined with 2.5 cm of gunite, after careful cleaning. As this technique
has not been previously used in the area, field trials would be made in the
first year of project construction to determine the most effective techniques
for sprayed concrete application.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
18.       Crab infestation is limited to a few localities.  However, in
these areas, crabs are a serious problem, as they bore holes through the
canal banks which are enlarged by flowing water, often leading to breaks
in the can.al banks. It is recognized that, over the long term, biological
or chemical means of control will have to be found and thus, under the
project, an experienced biologist would study the crabs and
their habitat and recommend methods of control. However, in order to
alleviate the problem over the short-term, 3 km of the worst infested
reaches would be lined under the project. The type of lining would be the
same as that proposed for reaches of excessive seepage (para 20).
19.       Under the UNDP project, measurements were made by current meter
of seepage losses from selected canal reaches and a ponding test was made
on one section of the RMC. Due to measurement errors, these tests were not
entirely conclusive but they did confirm that large losses were occurring.
Based on these measurements, the reaches selected for lining under the
project (Table 1) all have positive net benefits, in terms of the value of
water saved, when discounted at 12% per annum for 30 years. Additional
benefits from a reduction in waterlogging could not be quantified. Under
present conditions of poor water control, water saved would have little
value. However, with the project, water saved could be used for increasing
the irrigation intensity, especially in the rabi season.
20.       Lining would consist of a double layer of katlar slabs.  Katlar
is a local sandstone which splits easily into slabs 2-4 cm thick. Slabs
about 0.5 m x 1.0 m would be used and the joints would be staggered and
filled with cement mortar. Due to the expansive nature of the soils,
differential settlement of the slabs would occur, leading to cracking and
opening of the joints. However, it would be much more economical to repair
these cracks under a regular maintenance program than to construct a more
durable lining. Concrete construction would be too expensive in this area,
while suitable clays for making brick tiles do not exist.
Canal Capacity Improvement
21.       The canal system was designed for a water duty of 0.4 1/s/ha
commanded, suitable for a low irrigated cropping intensity. On-farm develop-
ment and the improvement in irrigation efficiency under the project would
make possible a significantly higher cropping intensity (Annex 11) and
increase the demand for water to 0.53 1/s/ha commanded (Annex 3) in the
peak demand month (Miay). The RMC has sufficient capacity to meet this
demand. The LMIC is only 2 km long and is mostly rock-cut. It would be
lined under the project (para 17), which would increase its capacity from
42 m3/s to the required 54 m3/s.
22.       Under the present project, the branch, distributary and minor
canals serving the areas selected for on-farm development (para 40) would
be increased in capacity to suit the projected cropping pattern. This
would involve widening and deepening the canals and modifying existing
structures.  For minor canals, which typically have a water depth of 30-40
cm, the existing badly-consolidated banks would be removed and replaced in



ANNEX 2
Page 8
thin layers, with mechanical compaction and careful control of water con-
tent. This would tend to reduce seepage and waterlogging in such areas.
This procedure would not be economical for the larger canals. Canal
capacitv works are listed in Table 2 and shown on Map 10887.
Control Structures
23.      lUnder present circumstances, there are insufficient control
structures to maintain an adequate head at the offtakes, when the system
is carrying less than its full capacity. This prevents efficient operation
during land preparation activities and during the wet season and contributes
to water wastage and waterlogging. The necessary additional head regulators
and cross regulators would be constructed on all canals serving the areas
selected for on-farm development (Table 2 and Map 10888). In addition,
certain structures for the RMC, which were not completed under the original
project, because of a shortage of funds, would be included in the project.
24.       The normal method of operating the system is for all watercourses
taking off from a minor to be operated at the same time, with the flow in
each watercourse being proportional to its commanded area. However, outlets
to the watercourses consist at present of plain concrete pipes and, even
with good discipline within the chak, accurate water control is impossible.
Under the project, permanent outlet structures (known as "tail clusters",
where several watercourses radiate from the tail of a minor) would be
constructed throughout the project area.
25.       The present number of outlets is too large (7,000 serving 229,000
ha) for efficient operation, and they would be reduced to about 4,000,
including 560 tail clusters, over the project implementation period.
Therefore, the average size of Lhe chak would increase from 35 ha to 6O ha.
Outlets would take the form of adjustable proportionate modules, so that
the flow in the watercourse would be a constant proportion of that in the
canal. These unilts which would be constructed of brick and concrete, have
been used in other parts of India for many years.
Aquatic Weed Control
26.       Experience has shown that, if aquatic weeds are not controlled,
canal capacity can fall by half within a few years. Control methods which
have been tried include: hand cutting; plowing of the canal bed; mechanical
cutting; and, grazing with grass carp (Ctenopharyngdon idella). Chemical
control is not considered feasible because of the danger to humans and
livestock drinking the water. Grass carp appear promising but further
research is needed and their use is diff'icult where canals must be dewatered
periodically.
27.       The most feasible and economic method of control appears to be a
combination of mechanical cutting from specially designed boats together
with dewatering and hand removal once a year, following by plowing of the
beds of the larger canals. A total of 18 such weed-cutting boats would be
procured under the project. In order to reduce the time required to dewater



ANNEX 2
Page 9
the RMC, and hence to remove the limitations on growing perennial crops
under irrigation in the right bank area (Annex 11), additional escapes
would be required and some fairly extensive borrow pits in the bed of the
canal would be filled in.
28.       There is some evidence that the four tanks (small reservoirs,
originally constructed for irrigation) through which the KMC passes in
its head reach act as nurseries for weecd growth and that weed control would
be much easier if these tanks were by-passed. However, there are insuffi-
cient data available at present to justify the large expenditure required
(about US$2 million). Further studies of this problem would be made as
part of the feasibility study for a second-stage project (para 10).
Miscellaneous Works
29.       M2iscellaneous high priority works include:  silt removal and
reshaping of the canal banks at a few locations along the RMC where slides
have occurred; protection works downstream of the Kota Barrage, where flood
flows have caused considerable property damage; a small number of village
road bridges and escapes for the canal system; and, buildings for the
implementation and operation of the project and for the agricultural
supporting services. Most of these works were intended as part of the
original irrigation project but were postponed due to a lack of funds.
Other works originally proposed, such as extensions to the irrigation
system, do not appear to be justified at this time.
C.  On-Farm Development Works
General
30.       At present the farmers' fields are mostly fairly large (typically
1 ha or more) but irregularly shaped. Most fields within the command area
have direct access to irrigation water from long tortuous watercourses fol-
lowing the field boundaries but, in general, fields not have road access
or drainage. Although some land shaping has been done by traditional methods,
the land is generally irregular in topography. Property boundaries are
demacrcated by bunds, about 2 m wide, covered with thorn bushes. Smaller
temporary bunds are used to divide fields, especially where small plots of
paddy or sugarcane are grown.
31.       On-farm development would have the following objectives:
(a) More efficient water use and hence a greater irrigated cropping
intensity;
(b) Higher yields, through more timely applications of irrigation
water, adequate drainage and better cultivation techniques;
and



ANNEX 2
Page 10
(c) Lower production costs, through an improved road network.
To reach these objectives, the project would include:
(a) Realignment of the farm boundaries, to permit a more rational
layout of the irrigation, drainage and road system;
(b) Construction of irrigation and drainage ditches to serve each
field;
(c) Construction of roads (cart-tracks) to serve each field; and
(d) Land shaping to enable efficient irrigation of field crops.
32.       In order to test the feasibility of the above concepts, the UNDP
Project (para 5) has constructed several pilot projects since 1970, with
most of the work being done from 1972 onwards. By June 1974, about 2,000 ha
will have been completed. In the earlier stages, the emphasis was on small,
scattered demonstration areas. Later in the program, larger blocks were
developed, which are more representative of project-scale conditions.
Design
33.       Boundary realignment involves minor exchanges of land between
owners and, to date, farmers have been willing to accept such proposals,
when the benefits of on-farm development were made apparent to them. While
consolidation of scattered parcels of land would not be a major objective
of the project, consolidation (within the block being designed) would be
carried out where feasible and agreeable to the owner. To the extent
possible, realignment would be carried out so that the farmer's new land
overlapped at least 50% of his old field, so as to avoid disputes over the
value of land. Normally there would be a proportionate reduction (usually
less than 5%) in the size of each holding to provide land for ditches,
drains and roads. Therefore, there would be no explicit compensation for
right-of-way acquisition.
34.       The new fields would be laid out in a herringbone fashion and
aligned at an angle to the contours so that an average down-field slope of
0.2% would be obtained (Map 10888). This slope has been shown by experience
to be the optimum compromise between the needs of irrigation and drainage.
Fields would be about 200 m long but would not necessarily be at a uniform
slope for the full length. Fields would be cross-leveled into border strips
at least 15 m wide.
35.       W4atercourses would be constructed along micro-ridges with a pipe
outlet to each field. A typical earthen watercourse would have a bottom
width of about 30 cm and a water depth of about 20 cm. Outlets would
consist of a 23 cm (inrmeter concrete pipe with a slide gate.  The UNDP
project team has experimented with various types of concrete lining and
strongly advocates lining of all watercourses. IHowever, insufficient



ANNEX 2
Page 11
evidence has been presented to justify the inclusion of lining in the pro-
ject, given the heavy soils of the project area.  In order to prevent
leakage from the earthen watercourses through shrinkage cracks, the farmers
would be shown how to maintain the channels, especially at the beginning
of each irrigation season 'Annex 10). iurther research on low-cost lining
methods would be carried out, with specLal emphasis on economic feasibility,
and the results would be incorporated in the project design, as appropriate.
36.       Drains would be simple earthen channels with 1:1 grassed side
slopes. Weed growth in the beds of the drains, particularly of Typha, is
expected to be a problem and intensive maintenance has been projected (Annex
10). Experiments are proceeding on the use of para grass in the drains.
This grass appears to choke out Typha and is suitable for harvesting as
cattle feed but it is also a very vigorous plant, so its introduction is being
monitored very closely.
37.       Some controversy surrounds the question of whether the farm roads
should run alongside the watercourses or alongside the drains (in the latter
case, a road on either side of the drain is indicated, to save the cost of
numerous culverts). Existing data suggest that the capital costs of the
two systems are about the same and both have operational advantages and
disadvantages. In order to resolve these questions, both systems would be
tried out in the first year of project implementation and careful observa-
tions made on costs and operational difficulties. Farm roads would be
about 4 m wide and raised above the surrounding terrain but, as they would
be constructed only of natural earth, they would require considerable main-
tenance by the farmers, especially after the wet season.
38.       Map 10888 shows a typical area of on-farm development, as imple-
mented under the UNDP project.
Development Areas
39.       After consideration of the organizational requirements of on-farm
development and the time needed to build up organizational capacity to a
sustained high level of output, it was concluded that a project target of
50,000 ha of on-farm development over a six year period would be realistic.
The organizational problems are discussed in Annex 7 and the proposed yearly
construction targets are shown in 8598.
40.       Six areas have been chosen for development and they have a total
irrigable area of 65,000 ha. From these areas, 50,000 ha would be chosen
during project implementation on the basis of the cost of development, which
would be constrained by a ceiling (Annex 13), and other factors. This
50,000 ha has been designated Area A. Compact blocks were chosen so as to
reduce the costs of canal remodelling and other infrastructural works and
for ease of construction supervision. However, the blocks also give a
representative cross-section of the command area and were chosen so as to
include a high proportion of flat land requiring minimal shaping.



ANNEX 2
page 12
41.       Of the 65,000 ha, about 55% has been classified topographically
as Class I, that is, land with slopes less than 0.5% and with low relief.
This land requires little or no land shaping. About 40% is Class II, with
slopes less than 1.5% and stronger relief, requiring moderate shaping. The
remaining 5% is classed as Class III, and consists of slopes up to 3% and
irregular relief. Such lands are usually near the edges of ravine areas
and would be excluded from the on-farm development program because the cost
of on-farm development would exceed the farmers' repayment capacity (Annex
13). The above classification was derived from an inspection of the
available 1:15,840 topographic maps with 1 m contours and provides a useful
guide for estimating the total project cost. Estimating the costs for
individual holdings would be done in a more sophisticated way (para 45).
42.       The on-farm development areas are as follows:
Block No.       Name                  Area (ha)
1           Anta                   8,000
2            Etawa                12,500
3           Sultanpur              8,000
4           Keshoraipaten         13,000
5           Talera                11,500
6           Ladpura                2,000
It is proposed that the first year's implementation would take
place entirely in the Talera Block, because of the administrative ease of
concentrating development close to Kota. Existing pilot areas within the
six blocks would be used by the project extension services to demonstrate
to the surrounding farmers the benefits of on-farm development and to train
the extension workers in irrigation techniques.
Method of Implementation
43.       A detailed description of implementation methodology is given
in rTeference 1. The implermentation of the on-farm works would begin with
an acrial survey by the Survey of India, using equipment supplied under
Credit 268-IN. Rectified air photos at a scale of 1:1,500 would be
produced and used as base maps for subsequent planning. Using the photos
for horizontal control, topographic maps with a 10 cm contour interval
would be plotted by planetable methods.
44.       A second copy of the air photo would be used for plotting soil
survey information using a simple cropping capability classification.
Cadastral information from the Revenue Department, cross-checked in the
field, would be plotted on another set of photos. The watercourses, drains
and roads would then be laid out as described in para 35 and a realignment
plan drawn up in accordance with the criteria listed in para 33.
45.       For each chak to be developed, a chak file would be prepared
including all the relevant plans and a cost estimate. In deriving cost
estimates for individual farm, leveling costs would be based on the cost



ANNEX 2
Page 13
of leveling the original holding, using some form of topographic classifica-
tion, while infrastructural costs and overheads would be proportional to
the size of the holding. The chak file would be passed to a team of revenue
officers who would discuss the plans and cost estimates with the village
authorities and the individual farmers. Engineering and agricultural
personnel from the Command Area Authority would be available to advise the
revenue officers on how to convince the farmer of the merits and financial
feasibility of on-farm development. The arrangements for financing these
works and the preparation of loan applications is described in Annexes 7
and 8.
46.       Under the provision of various acts (Annex 7), acceptance of
boundary realignment and on-farm development would be compulsory. However,
experience with the UNDP pilot projects suggests that compulsion will rarely
be necessary. An area where farmer reluctance was widespread would be
merely postponed for a year or two. Aft.er farmers have had a chance to
observe the benefits of on-farm development in other areas, there should be
little reluctance. The Authority would also organize tours of previously
developed areas, beginning with the existing pilot projects, to familiarise
farmers with the proposed standard of development.
47.       After acceptance by the farmers of a chak plan, detailed designs
would be prepared. In order to guide construction and to aid in the com-
putation of earthworks, the area would be re-surveyed and a square grid
of stakes set out parallel to the direction of the design slope. In order
to avoid excessive cuts and fills, the holding would be divided into border
strips, parallel if possible. Volumes cf earthwork would be computed and
cuts and fills marked on the stakes. Computation methods are described
in detail in Reference 1.
48.       A determination would then be made as to whether the chak was
suitable for contract work. Such chaks would normally be areas of slight
relief, requiring only light land shaping, which could be performed with
equipment likely to be available to a local contractor. It is estimated
that 55% of Area A would fall in this category. Other areas would require
moderate cuts and fills, which would require heavier equipment which could
not easily be made available to a contractor in India.  Therefore, such
areas would be developed by force account, using equipment procured under
thie project (para 4.24).  Some elements of these works, such as the con-
struction of watercourses, drains and structures would be sub-contracted.
49.       In constructing the watercourses, care would be exercised to
obtain good compaction. Watercourses andl drains would be grassed. Equip-
ment for th-e force account portion of the on-farm works would be purchased
in two lots, in the first and third years of project implementation.
Experience gained in the first two years would be used in deciding on the
type and amount of equipment to be used for the remaining period.  It is
presently envisaged that the major piece of equipment for land shaping
would be a 9.5 m- elevating scraper. Smaller drag scrapers and ancilliary
equipment would be used for fine leveling and finishing.  Using the con-
struction methods outlined in Reference .1, it is expected that a grading
tolerance of + 3 cm could be reached.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
50.       After the completion of construction to the satisfaction of the
Command Area Authority, the farmer or, in his absence, the panchayat leader,
would be requested to sign a completion certificate, binding him to loan
repayment, and would also receive a title to his relocated holding. In the
event of disagreement as to whether the work had been carried out to a
satisfactory standard, an arbitration committee would be asked to adjudicate
the matter. Details of this procedure have not yet been worked out. In
many cases, slight subsidence of the filled portions of the holding may occur
after the first few irrigations. It appears that the most economic way to
remedy these would be for the farmer to level lightly with traditional
bullock-drawn equipment for the first few seasons.
D. Roads
Introduction
51.       The project provides for the improvement of existing roads arid
construction of new ones to provide a basic road network in the Command
Area, serving in particular the six blocks selected for intensive agri-
cultural development (para 40). The existing unsurfaced roads are usually
waterlogged and impassable and many parts of the project area are cut off
during the rainy season. The surfaced roads also suffer from the damage
caused by the poor land drainage that generally prevails in the area.
52.       The roadworks proposed under this project, which are listed in
Annex 4, Table 4, would provide only a rudimentary road system and much
would remaini to be done with regard to access roads to farms and villages.
The major part of the roadworks is planned for the right bank of the
Chambal River to serve Blocks 1, 2, 3 and 6 (para 42) but, as the blocks
are scattered, the improved and new roads would serve the entire command
area on the right bank. The road program would link the existing stretches
of roads to form a network connecting the smaller markets in the interior
to the major markets and railheads at Kota, Anta and Baran.  It would thus
enable the farmers in the area to transport with greater efficiency and
lower costs, because of reduced distances and better road conditions, an
annual increase in crop production, consisting mainly of paddy, wheat,
sugarcane and sorghum, estimated at 400,300 tons in 1982 when full agri-
cultural production is expected to be achieved.
53.       The roadworks on the left bank of the Chambal River would chiefly
help the sugarcane farmer by enabling him to transport at lower cost his
raw cane to the sugar factory at Keshoraipaten. The annual production of
sugarcane ir. this area is estimated at about 200,000 tons in 1982. Rice
and wheat are also important items of agricultural produce that would be
exported from the area. The new and improved roads on both banks would
also serve the farmer by reducing the costs of transporting his inputs
thereby encouraging him to improve his cultivation methods and increase
his agricultural production.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Preparation of Road Program
54.       The road surveys, including soils and materials surveys, final
engineering and documentation would be undertaken by the Public Works
Department of Rajasthan (PWD). The PWD is organized regionally and has
responsibility both for roads and public buildings. However, in order to
assure that all elements of the road program under the project are properly
integrated and to ensure better coordination with the Coimmand Area Authority,
the GOR has decided to establish a separate Circle within the PWD for the
design and construction of the road component of the project (Annex 7).
55.       Preliminary traffic forecasts have been made and some engineering
work has beien carried out by the PWD to enable cost estimates to be pre-
pared. The topography is generally flat but several major and minor river
crossings occur that would require comprehensive hydrological and drainage
studies. The roads would be designed fcr a life of 15 years after which
major rehabilitation works would be required. The pavement design would
be based on traffic volumes predicted up to 1994 (Table 3).  The road design
standards (Table 4) are generally those adopted by the Indian Roads Congress
and they are satisfactory.
56.       No natural aggregates are available locally for base and subbase
constructioni and therefore crushed stone would be used throughout. All the
roads would have a bituminous surface as the intense rainfall during certain
months of the year tends to erode and wash the fines from an exposed crushed
stone layer making it both difficult and costly to maintain unsurfaced
roads. A bituminous surface would also reduce the amount of moisture pen-
etrating to the subgrade, which is mostly composed of expansive black cotton
soils. A blanket of sand 10 cm thick would be spread over the subgrade to
serve as a drain.
57.       Purchase of Equipment - The works would be carried out in small
contracts (para 4.25). The local contractors usually hire equipment from
the PWD and purchase of some items of equipment has been included in the
project to meet construction requirements and subsequent road maintenance.
The equipment, which is listed in Annex 5, Table 3, would remain the property
of the PWD. The equipment to be hired consists of relatively unsophisticated
items, such as road rollers and trucks, which is unlikely to be misused by
the contractors.
58.       General Conditions of Contract - The general conditions of contract
currently used in road construction contracts require certain amendments
to place the contractor in an equitable position in his contractual relation-
ship with the State Government. For example, there are no provisions in
the conditions of contract for arbitration and escalation of prices of basic
materials and the PWD has powers to unilaterally terminate a contract
without compensation if funds become scarce. The contractor is also unable
to claim compensation for delays and defaults on the part of the PWD in
the execution of its duties under the contract. Similar problems exist for
other types of civil works contracts and GOR would amend the general conditions
in consultation with the Bank.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Description of Project Roads (Map 10887 and Table 3)
State Highways (Major Market Roads)
59.       Improvement of the Sultanpur/Etawa Road (37 km) - This is part
of an existing road from Kota, a major market town and rail junction.
Sultanpur is a minor market town and the road up to the town is not included
in the project. From Sultanpur to the Kali Sindh river crossing at Dibri,
a distance of about 22 km, the bitumen surface of the road is broken and
pitted and the shoulders and drains are in bad repair and inadequate.
Beyond Dibri the road is not bituminised and the original construction of
crushed stone and clay filler material has either been reduced to loose
rubble or washed away. Etawa, where the road ends, is a minor market town.
4O.       The road serves both banks of the Kali Sindh river, a tributary
of the Chambal River. On the west bank, the road would serve part of
Block 3, comprising an agricultural area of about 9,000 ha, and provide an
outlet to Kota for the agricultural surplus produced in that area. The
section of the road on the east bank, about 11 krii, between the river
crossing and the junction at Ganeshganj, would serve a smaller agricultural
area of about 7,500 ha and provide a route to the market town of Anta on
the Kota/Baran Road.
61.       The last section to Etawa would serve the whole of Block 2,
comprising an agricultural area of about 12,700 ha. Most of the traffic
is expected to divert at Ganeshganj to the road leading to Baran, a rail-
hlead and major market town.  The whole road would be improved to State
Highway Standards and its pavement widened to 3.8 m. It will have a 20 mm
bituminous mix surface and hard and soft shoulders.
62.       Construction of Kota/Balita/Ke;shoraipaten Road (16 km) - This
new road would provide a direct route between Keshoraipaten and Kota, cutting
down the present travel distance by about 21 km. It would stimulate the
expansion of Keshoraipaten, where there is already a sugar factory, into a
major market towm. In addition, it woul,l serve Block 4 comprising about
8,000 ha. It would be constructed to State Highway Standards and would have
a 3.8 n wide single-lane pavement with a 20 mm bituminous mix surface and
hard and soft shoulders.
?'ojsr District Roads (Minor Harket Roads
63.       Improvement of the Anta/Balakhera Road (9 km) and construction of
Balakhera/Siswali/Dibri extension (21 km) - There is an existing road from
Anta, a major market town, to Balakhera, beyond which the road is just a
trail. The existing road has a crushed stone surface in a badly maintained
condition with inadequate shoulders and drains.  The road, when extended to
Dibri via Siswali (a minor market town), would serve an agricultural area
of about 8,000 ha including a major part of Block 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 17
64.       Improvement of Talera/Keshoraipaten Road (13 km) -  This is an
existing road with a 3.2 m wide bituminous surface in comparatively good
condition. The road traverses the area of Block 3 and links Talera on the
Kota/Bundi Road with Keshoraipaten. Sugarcane is the main crop carried
over this road. The agricultural area served by this road is about 15,000
ha, including a part of Block 5. Counts taken of traffic in 1973 gave a
peak traffic volume of 175 vpd, of which 75% was truck and bus traffic. It
is expected that it would increase to a peak traffic volume of 300 vpd in
1994 (Table 3).
65.       Construction of Ganeshganj/Ma grol Road (25 km) -  This road would
provide the missing section of the road linking Etawa to Baran, a major
market town. From Mangrol to Baran the road is already bitumenised and
is in fair condition. When this link is constructed it is likely to divert
all truck traffic carrying agricultural surplus, mainly wheat, from Block
2 to Baran instead of carrying it to Kota.
66.       Improvement of the Etawa/Rajopa Road (5 km) and construction of
Rajopa/Kathoda Road (38 km). There is an existing earth road from Etawa, a
minor market town, to Rajopa beyond which there is a trail to Kathoda in
the most northern corner of the command area. The new road would serve
Block 2 which comprises about 12,700 hectares.
67.       Improvement of the Keshoraipaten/Arnetha Road (12 km).  The
existing road is an earth road serving part of Block 4. The PWD proposes
to extend this road to link the market towqns of Laban and Kapren with
Keshoraipaten and Kota and thus provide an alternative to the existing rail
facility.  Each of the above roads would be constructed to 'lajor District
PRoad Standar-ds and would have a 3.8 m wide pavement with a 20 mm bituminous
ruix surface and hard and soft shoulders.
Other District Roads (Feeder Roads)
6, ". .   Construction of MandauTar/Sultalipur Poad (14 km) - This road would
serve as a feeder road to carry agricultural produce to Sultanpur, a miinor
market town. The agricultural area served by this road is about 27,000 ha.
69.       Construction of Keshoraipaten/Khatgarh Road (26 km) - This is a
new road thl.t would pass througlh the middle of the Command Area on the left
bank of Chanmbal river and would serve pri.marily as a feeder road. There is
no road in the entire northern half of the left bank and this road would
provide a valuable access to Keshoraipaten and Kota. The road is expected
to carry a small volure of traffic only. Both the above roads would be
constructed to Other District Road Standards and would have a 3.8 m pave-
ment with a 20 mm bituminous mix surface and hard and soft shoulders.
Village Roads
70.       Improvement of 10 km of existing village roads and construction of
21 km of new roads are included in the road program. The roads are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 18
Length
(km)
Etawa/Pipalda (Improvement only)                  10
Malpura/Namana (New construction)                 13
Talera/Alpharajar (New construction)    :          8
Total:                 31
71.       The traffic volume expected is light and would not exceed 45 vpd.
The roads would have a 3.2 m wide single-lane pavement with a single coat
of bituminous surface dressing. Only soft shoulders would be provided.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
CRAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
List of Lining Works
Canal                      Chainage                        Length
(m)
Rock-Cut Reaches
RMC                  162,000-164,000                         400
182,000-184,000                         400
208,000-210,000                         400
263,000-278,000                      2,020
LMC                         0-  5,200                      1,050
Bundi Branch          13,100- 14,100                         200
82,000- 87,000                      1,010
130,000-133,500                         700
Sub-Total       6,180
Earthen Reaches
RMC                   69,000- 70,000                         200
113,000-114,600                        320
Etawa Blranch        115,500-122,500                       1,410
137,400-138,400                        200
148,000-148,500                         100
LMC                    5,400-  8,400                         600
Bundi Branch                0-  6,500                      1,310
18,600- 25,000                      1,290
Kapren Branch         13,000- 19,000                       1,210
Patan Branch           9,000- 15,000                       1,210
Sub-Total       7,850
Total          14,030 m



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
CILIMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
List of Canal Capacity Works and Control Structures
Canal Capacity Works                      Length of Canals to be Remodelled
(km)
Right Bank Area
Branch Canals                                     189
Distributary and Minor Canals                    408
Sub-Total                               597
Left Bank Area
Branch Canals                                     40
Distributary and Minor Canals                    217
Sub-Total                               257
Total                                   854 km
Control Structures                          Number of Control Structures 
Type   Type   Type    Total    Of Which
On-Farm Development Area             A       B_      C                HR    CR
1. Anta                               3       5       3       11       3      8
2. Etawa                              2       8       6        16      4    12
3. Sultanpur                         24      31     20        75       4    71
4. Keshoraipaten                      8       7       1        16      4    12
5. Talera                            10       9       7       26       7    19
6. Ladpura                            2       4       7        13      -    13
Total            49      64      44       157      22   135
/a   Type A - substitution of steel gates for wooden planks in existing
structures.
Type B - conversion of existing bridges to cross regulators.
Type C - new structures.
HR - Head Regulator: to control. the flow diverted into a minor
canal.
CR - Cross Regulator: to control the water level in a canal.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COWMAND AREA DEVELOPMEN4T PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Roads - Traffic Forecasts for 1994
Peak Traffic    Peak Traffic-/
Road                                   (All vehicles)   (Trucks and Buses)
vpd               vpd
A.   Stite Iighways (liajor Mlarket Roads)
(i) Sultanpur/Etawa Road
Sultanpur/Dibri Section                      400              260
Dibri/Ganesliganj Section                    1S0              115
Ganeshganj/Etawa Section                     300              200
(ii) Kota/Balita/Keshoraipaten Road                200              130
B.  Major District Roads (Minor lMarket Roads)
(i) ALLta/Balakhera/Siswali/Dibri Road            160              120
(ii) Talera/Keshoraipaten Road                     300              225
(iMi) Ganeshganj/M1angrol Road                      350              260
(iv) Etawa/Rajopa/Kathoda Road                     300              200
(v) Keshoraipaten/Arnetha Road                  50-90            35-60
C.   Other District Roads (Feeder Roads)
(i) I'Mndawar/Sultanpur Road                      200              150
(ii) Keshoraipaten/Khatgarh Road                 25-80            20-60
/a   Peak traffic occurs during April/May and November/December for a total of
about 50 days.
1/   The figures given in this table are tentative and indicate the comparative
order of magnitude traffic volumes that can be expected.



INDIA
CHAMBAL CCMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Design Standards for Roads
Other        Village
Class of Road               State Highway      Major District Road   District Road    Road
(Major Market Road)   (Minor Market Road)   (Feeder Road)
Design speed (km/h)                       80.0                  65.0               50.0           40.0
Pavement width (m)                         3.8                   3.8                3.8            3.2
Hard shoulder width (m)                     1.0                  1.0                1.0            -
Formation width (m)                        9.5                   9.5                7.2            7.2
Right of way (m)                          30.0                  24.0               18.0           12.0
Stopping sight distance (m)              110                    90                 60             50
Passing sight distance (m)               450                   300                180            130
Maximum super elevation (%)                 6.7                   6.7                6.7            6.7
Minimum horizontal radius (m)             240                   150                 90             70
Pavement Design: In accordance with the Guidelines for the Design of Flexible Pavements (Indian Roads
Congress: 37-1970).
Source:          Indian Roads Congress and Rajasthan PWD.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The water supply for crop production in the project area is derived
from two main sources: (a) rainfall; and (b) the regulated flow of the
Chambal River. Groundwater, developed by shallow dug wells, is used through-
out the project area but mainly for domestic purposes. Outside the project
area, there is much small-scale irrigation from dug wells using bullock
power.  There are prospects for deep groundwater development in and around
the project area and exploration and test drilling is being conducted by
GOR. Therefore, an intensification of irrigated agriculture might be possible
at a future date, through the conjunctive use of surface water and groundwater.
2.        The Chambal Project, in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, is the only
major withdrawal use of water from the Chambal River. As described in
Annex 2, two storage reservoirs, a power pondage and a diversion dam have
been constructed on the Chambal and these provide a high degree of regula-
tion of its flows. While proposals for augmenting the supply of water to
the Chambal irrigation area have been considered, none is at an advanced
stage of preparation, and for the present analysis, it was assumed that the
water supply would be fixed. The projected cropping pattern (Annex 11) and
especially the irrigated cropping intensity, is intended to make optimal use
of the available water supply, assuming on-farm development would eventually
cover the whole area and with due regard to peak water demands and labor
and other constraints.
3.        The existing reservoir system has two operating problems which
could affect the availability of water for irrigation. The first is that,
due to the lack of data available at the time of construction of the Gandhi
Sagar Dam, its spillway was built with inadequate capacity. Shortly after
the completion of the dam in 1960, a flood occurred which exceeded the peak
flood used for design purposes. As a result, the operating water level
during the flood season was lowered from the design value of 430.5 m to
428.5 m, to give additional flood storage. Following a second unprecedented
flood in 1969, a review of the hydrology of the Chambal basin and the
adequacy of the Gandhi Sagar Dam was made by the Central Water and Power
Commission (CWPC). The CWPC Report, dated April 1971, concludes that the
safety of the dart can be assured if the dam is operated at an initial level
of 425.8 m, during the flood season, witlh the existing spillway capacity,
or 429.5 m if the spillway capacity is increased. If either of these levels
were maintained continuously, the regulated flow from the system would be
inadequiate to meet irrigation needs (para 10). Ilowever, if an adequate
flood prediction system were in place, the reservoir could be drawn down in



ANNEX 3
Page 2
advance of a flood and the safety of the dam assured.  At other times, the
reservoir would be operated at a higher level. CWPC has recommended the
installation of additional stream gauges and communications facilities
and the formation of an expert reservoir regulation group at the dam.
Steps are being taken to implement these proposals and these would be com-
pleted within six years.
4.        Another problem affecting the supply of water for irrigation is
the possible conflict withl hydroelectric generation. In past years, con-
siderable volumes of water have been spilled at the Kota Barrage during
the kharif season, when irrigation demand has been rather low. This is
not likely to be a problem in the future, for the following reasons:
(a) with the project, irrigation demand in the kharif will rise
considerably;
(b) with the completion of a nuclear power station now under
construction at Rana Pratap Sagar, the load factors of the
hvdro stations will be reduced; and
(c) the Chambal Control Board (now re-constituted as the Madhya
Pradesh - Rajasthan Interstate Control Board) decided on
August 8, 1970 that irrigation needs would receive priority
in determining reservoir releases.
'.        Operational studies of the Chambal system, with the assumption
that the problems referred to in paras 3 and 4 are satisfactorily resolved, show
that 3,900 Mm3 per annum would be available for diversion at the Kota
Barrage in 88% of the years. Half of this supply, or 1,950 Mm3, has been
allocated to Rajasthan.
6.        While existing hydrologic knowledge of the Chambal system is
adequate for establishing the feasibility of the present project, further
studies will be needed to refine the present operating criteria and maximize
both irrigation and power benefits. These studies would be carried out by
CWPC and would include:
(a) Analysis of rainfall-runoff relationships by modern hydrologic
methods, including computer simulation;
(b) Recommendations for further improvements to the flood warning
system and for optimal operating rules for the reservoir
system; and
(c)  Operational studies to determine the optimal method of operating
the reservoir system to maximise total benefits.
Water Demand
7.        Table 1 shows the estimated system efficiencies for three cases.
Under present conditions, system efficiency is low at 30%, due to leakage



ANNEX 3
Page 3
and seepage from the canal system, inadequate maintenance of the water-
courses, and the absence of on-farm development and a system of rotational
irrigation. These losses all compound the problem of waterlogging. This
estimate of present conditions is based on the findings of the UNDP team.
With the project, two cases are distinguished. Area A is the 50,000 ha to
receive on-farm development and its overall efficiency of water use has
been estimated at 50%. In this case, field efficiency would be much improved
due to full control over water application, land shaping, and the enforce-
ment of the warabandi system. Conveyance efficiencies would be increased
because of the reconstruction and lining works, improved weed control and the
new control structures to be provided under the project. Areas B and C cover
the remaining 179,000 ha and would benefit mainly from weed control, lining
of some critical reaches, and enforcement of the warabandi system. An
improvement in overall efficiency to 35%' is projected. Both these cases
assume unlined (but well-maintained) watercourses.
8.        Table 2 computes the diversion requirements for Area A in a year
of average rainfall. Average rainfall is taken from Annex 1, Table 1. A
factor which varies month by month between 60 and 80% is used to compute
effective rainfall - the proportion of rainfall that is retained in the
soil and is available for plant use. The factor is rather high due to the
practice of bunding fields in the wet season. In the absence of field
measurements of consumptive use in the area, both the Blaney-Criddle and
the Penman equations, together with appropriate crop coefficients, have
been used to estimate evapo-transpiraticn.
9.        The effects of residual moisture pose a difficult problem.  The
fact that crops can be grown on the heavy soils of the project area in
the rainless rabi season without irrigation demonstrates that residual
moisture is important. However, few data are available on its magnitude.
The figures used in Table 2 were arrived at by judgement and in consultation
with local agronomists and research workers. It has been assumed that the
use of resi(lual moisture increases as the plant roots grow and then falls
as the moisture stock is depleted. For tmost crops, a pre-sowing irrigation
of 100 mm has been assumed, while for paddy, a consumptive use of 300 mm
has been assumed for the first month, to take account of the water needs
of land preparation and the nursery stage.
10.       Table 2 shows that the average diversion requirement for Area A
would be 440 Mim3, for an irrigated cropping intensity of 137%. It is expected
that eventually the whole project area would be raised to this level of
development and the diversion requirments wsuld then amount to 2,000 Mm  per
annum. This is slightly above the 1,950 Mm estimated to be available in
88% of the years (para 5).  Thus, 2,000 lqm3 would be available at least
80% of the years, which is a satisfactory degree of availability. Diversion
requirements with the project, for areas B and C have been estimated at
1,170 1m3, assuming the cropping pattern shown in Annex 11, Tables 2 and
3, (with irrigated cropping intensities of 96% and 66% respectively) and
a system efficiency of 35%. The total diversion requirements would thus
average 1,610 Mm3 in the earlv 1980's, which is within the available supply.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       Maximum water use would occur in May and has been estimated at
0.53 l/s per commanded ha at the barrage. This value has been used as the
design capacity for the canal capacity improvement works under the project
(Annex 2). In drier than normal years, the month of June also becomes
critical. With the assumed cropping pattern and a rainfall of at least
60 mm (compared with the average of 79 mm) canal capacity would just be adequate.
With lower rainfall, temporary surcharges in the canal system or delayed
planting of part of the area would be required.
Water Quality
12.       Studies on water quality are being undertaken under the ICAR
research program. Although only a few samples have been taken, they show
that the quality of the applied water is high, with total disolved solids
less than 250 mg/l, and a sodium-adsorbtion ratio of less than 3. Salinity
problems in the area have been caused by the upward leaching of salts from
the soil profile rather than by salts in the applied water. The drainage
and other measures to be implemented under the project would remove these
adverse conditions. Only preliminary measurements have been made of the
quality of the return flows to the Chambal River but no problems for down-
stream users have been identified. Under the project, continuing studies
would be made of the chemical composition of the applied irrigation water,
return flows and changes in the soil profile.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Irrigation Efficiency
-------(M) __------
Present
Situation         With Project
Area                                   A       B& C
Field efficiency             60            80         65
Conveyance efficiency
- watercourses             70            80          73
- canal system (average)  75             80          77
System efficiency            31            51          36
(rounded)                 30             50         35



AMORE 3
CRHMBAL CCRR(6D AREA DRVELOUNRET PROJECT (IAJASTHAN)
Crr                          itee                       Ui               Janar    Februay  Marh   Wrot   M.                 June           July  Auzoat  Septmber  October  9N-mer  DRcauber  Average
AvrR ranfl                    -                          9         4          5       5       7        79      60     309       2AR      132            13          6           3         842
.,ffective  rinfall          I-                                                                        s    o  R       70        60       70           00           .64A
(rouded)--                                                     -          -               -        65      50     015       160        90           00          -5 40
Paddy                        Are                           'lOO ha                                                          5            R           10       10         R            3
Conaun.ps inn usc  en'                                              ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~ ~           ~~~300  275  00  IRO  100  160
Irrlgatlo: requtrevent   inn                                        ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~               ~~~~~~300  010 (005)  502! 002  90  s50
Mn3                                                             15.0     16.R   (lAO0)    5.0        0.0      7.0          4.5                                50.5
Sorghue  -d Maize           Are                           '000 ha                                                          3            3            A6<0      6.5       6.5          4
Conaumprroe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ee  - ~~~~~~~~100                                  150          190       165      150          130
Residual moisture  cut                                             -            -            -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 10  200
IrrIgation  requirenevr    -                                        ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~             ~ ~ ~~~                 ~ ~~~100  R5    (100)  -    0  1200
3t                                                              0.0      4.0    (5.0)    -         -         3.2          4.8                                15.0
PrIzes                       Aree                                                                                           I                         A        A         6            1
Co-suptiveus                  000 he                                                        110          140          120       120      120          120
Residual  -i-nitrr                                                                            -            -            -         -       10           20
IrriROtlon require~ni    -                                                          110        75     (90)                         2   0        90
Nc.3                                                             1.1      4.5    (5.4)    -          .        1.2          0.9                                 7.7
Oilseedts $Croundnut         Am-                                                                                            2            A            4        A         4            2
Conumtie   se                '000 ha                                                        100          100          160       100      110           dO
esidual mosue                cn-                                                                           -            -         -       10           20
Ir-igetl nteqi-      cu                                                                     100       35      (50)      -         -       10           10
mn3                                                              2.0      1.4   (2.0)   -            -        0.4          1.0                                 4.8
_____                ~~~~             ~            ~~~Area  'OlO h.            0         1          1       02      0             2            0        2         2            2          2          2
Con-eun    - tirm             c                        50        100        100     120     195          210          190       150      165          160        120          90
grtotrit reornn5 0                                            100        100     150     195       145    (100)       -         -       75          150        120         900
Nc3                        1.         10        10       7.       .       2.9     (3.0)    -         -        1.5          3.0        0.4         1.0         22.0
huh-Total       ~~~~Arca                        000 ha                    2          1         1        2      103          25           20.5    00.5       13.5         12          2           2
I rrsnatlonrequrrrnent   -                       1.0        1.0       1.0      3.0   05.0      29.0   (33.05    5.0       0.0      06.5         14.2        2.4         1.9        100.4
tJl,raL  <dIr irrroog-dt  Are                              '000 ha                   13         15        10        5                                                                  5        10          13
.o.u.tn   u.en.                                   90        125        170      30                                                                100       150          90
ORtidual  -oit-.             m                         40         30        30        -                                                                 100       20          30
nati.coneq.zreorns    -              ~~~       ~~~ ~~~50  75  140  50                                                                 00         00          60
On3                        7.0       11.2      16 .0     0.3                                                               4.0        0.          9.0         59.0
rieoi     Are                           OOO4ah                    7          7          3       2                                                                  0         5           7
Coc-eptiveus                 o                         90        123       170       50                                                               100         10          90
Residual Misture                                       65         73                 3                                                                  20        305         50
Irnigat ioneuierr             r0                                  50       103       00                                                                 70        65          40
Nc3                        1.0        2.5       3.2   0.4                                                                  1.4        3.2         0.0         10.3
Crac & Pulses        ~~~~Are                       '000 ha                     0.5       0.5        4                                                                          1          6          0.5
Coo-upt m   ue                                         70        100        130                                                                       100        100          70
Residual esuietare  -                   ~~~        ~~~ ~~~~~~30  2 0  10                                                                  10    200             30
Irnlgor o  require-          or40                                 00       140                                                                         RU         RI          40
Mn.3                       3.4        6.0       5.6                                                                        0..        4.0         3. 4        04.0
Oi osertls                   Are                           '000 ha                    5         82                                                                                    1          4           5
Conmunrptiveoae  -                      ~~~        ~~~~~~~~70  00                                                                        100        00          70
1esidui-  -qoitur -          n-c-20                               10                                                                                    10        20          25
IrrigatIon rsquientonr  n                        250      774                                                                                   00         620         45
Pc3  2.5  1.4                                                                               ~~~~      ~~~ ~ ~~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0  2.4  2.2  9.3
Potatoe  & Coriander         Are                           '000 ha                    0         2          0.5                                                                        0.9        1.0         2
Conouriptive  uce  net                  ~~~       ~~~~ ~        ~~~~70  100  140                                                        10           U          70
Oreldual  colesure  nan                 ~~~        ~~~        ~~~~20  10  -                                                              10         20O         0
lorlOatlonrequlrerent -                         50        90        140                                                                         0           0          5
cc3                 1.0~      ~~~~     ~~~ 1.  0.7                                                                  0.7        1.1         1.0          6.3
Fodder                       Area             ~             000 ho                    0.5      80.5        0.5    50.7    10.1                                           0.2          1.3        0.3         0.1
Coc-oPni-.o  use             o                         60         00        120     IS      10                                           100            RU        60          60
Realdual roisrure  or                    3~~~~~ ~                    ~       ~~~~0 30 '0 2    -                              -           10         20          20
irrnigti.n requIremnt s                                30         30        9       1 300    150                                          30           60         40          40
Mn3                       00.2        0. 2      0.4      0.3    0.2                                          10.1         00.3       00.2         0.0          2.1
lub-T-tl               Are                           .030 ha.3                           33.        22        7.2     0.21         -                      .        0.2         10.4       27.3        30.
tlrrgsrio-r-qu iren-r                                  16.4       23.       20.7      3.02 0.0                                             0.1          0.0       19.7        10.
BTona             Ara030 ha                                               40         36         23       9.2    13.1         25           28.5      29.5     2h.?         22.4       19.3        40
-rioinrqulrn-n        M.                         17.4      24.9       29.7     6.2    25.2      099    (33.5)    5.0        2.0     13.05        22.2       22.1        20.4        219.4
lvrir.rquirement        t3/n-ch                  34.        49.0       59.4    12 .4    50.4     196 (67.2)  10.0           4.0      27.0         44.4      44.7        40.0        436.0
/a               ~~~~~     ~~~13.0  19.:7  013.5  9.0    26.6    2'3.6   (06.6)    4.0      1.6      10.7         17.6       17.5       16.2          1n.4
l/Aoodha            0.34      0.35       1.02    1.064    1 .26    0.4   (1.06)  0.14        0.06      0.41         0,7        0.60        0.40          -
I (suo-aded Ac             0.27      0.39       0.47    0.20   0.33       0.47   (0.533)0.00        0. 03     0.22         0.'3)      0.35        0.32         0.29
I!  No-wek period:                       2/  Thet-.-ok p-riod:                       3/  Noan.loa     n     t.o...o..n  for  .I.nocged dry periods.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Cost Estimates: Summary/
Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total            7.
------Rs Million -------   ------US$ Million------
1. Irrigation and Drainage (Table 2)        98.4     32.8    131.2    12.3        4.1      16.4         25
2. On-Farm Development (Table 3)            54.6      29.4     84.0      6.8      3.7      10.5         35
3. Roads (Table 4)                          37.5      12.5     50.0     4.6       1.6       6.2         25
4. Afforestation (para 4.09)                 1.1       0.1      1.2      0.2      --        0.2          5
5. Supplementary Fertilizer
(Annex 9, Table 1)                     2.6     48.7     51.3      0.3       6.1      6.4         95
Sub-Total                            194.2    123.5    317.7    24.2       15.5      39.7        39
Physical contingencies                   23.5      9.0      32.5     3.0       1.1       4.1         28
Sub-Total                            217.7    132.5    350.2    27.2       16.6     43.8         38
Estimated Price Increases               117.7     46.5    164.2    14.7        5.8      20.5         Z8
Sub-Total                            335.4    179.0    514.4    41.9       22.4      64.3        35
6. Project Administration and Operating
Costs during Implementation
(Table 5)                             88.2      9.8      98.0    110       1.2      12.2        10
Estimated Price Increases                28.4       3.2     31.6      3.6      0.4       4.0         10
Sub-Total                            116.6     13.0    129.6    14.6        1.6      16.2         10
Total 1 - 6                          452.0    192.0    644.0    56.5       24.0      80.5         30
7. Interest during construction              -        88.0     88.0      -        11.0     11.0        100
Total Project Cost                   452.0    280.0    732.0    56.5       35.0      91.5         38     
Share of Rajasthan               424.0    264.0    688.0    53.0        33.0      86.0         38             ' X
Share of Madhya Pradesh            28.0     16.0      44.0     3.5       2.0       5.5         36
1/  Design and construction supervision costs and the costs of equipment are included in Items 1, 2, 3
and 4 respectively.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 1
INDIA
CLAI41AL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJAST-AN)
Cost Estimates: Irrigation and Drainage
Item                 Quantity       Unit      Rate       Total Cost
(Re)     (Rs million)
1.  Drainage                167,000      ha          300          50.0
2. Lining
Rock-cut reaches       375,000      m2           32.5        12.2
Earthen reaches        180,000      m2           31.0         5.6
Miscellaneous              .        LS            .           1.5
Sub -Total                                              19.3
3.  Canal Capacity Works
branch canals        1,050,000      in3           2.1         2.2
Minor and distri-
butary canals      1,550,000      m3            2.1         3.3
Structures                .         IS            ,           2.3
Sub-Total                                               7.8
4. Control Structures
head regulators            .        IS            .           0.1
Cross regulators           .        IS            .           2.8
Outlets                  4,000      each      2,000           8.0
Tail clusters              560      each      1,000           0.6
PIC works                 *         LS            .           1.4
Sub-Total                                              12.9
5. Aquatic Weed Control
Weed cutting boats           18     each    83,500            1.5
Filling borrow pits   540,000       m3            7.0         3.8
tLscapeS, and misc.        .        LS           .            2.0
Suib-Total                                               7.3
6. Miscellaneous works
RMC bank stabilization   .          LS           .            3.5
Protection works down-
stream of barrage       .         LS           .            4.0
Miscellaneous structures .          LS           .            1.5
Buildings - irrigation   .          LS           .            1.5
- agriculture  .         LS           .            1.5
Sub-Total                                              12.0
TOTAL                                            109.3



ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 2
Item                Quantity       Unit        Total Cost
(Rs million)
Brought Forward                                   109.3
7. Engineering and
Administration (20%)                               21.9
Total                                       131.2
8. Physical Contingencies
Drainage                15%                         7.5
Lining                  10%                         1.9
Canal capacity works   15%                          1.2.
Control structures      15%                         1.9
Aquatic weed control   15%                          1.1
Miscellaneous works    20%                          2.4
Sub-Total                               16.0
Total Cost:  Irrigation and Drainage Works        147.2
Share of Rajasthan                         121.8/a
Share of Madhya Pr4desh
Lining                                   9.3
Control structures - RMC                 1.0
Aquatic weed control                     4.2
RMC bank stabilization                   2.6
Barrage protection works                 2.0
Engineering and administration           3.8
Physical contingencies                   2.5
TOTAL                        25.4/a
/a   Without price contingencies and interest during construction.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
CiAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Cost Estimates: On-Farm Development
Topograpliy J2ass /a                        I      --
-----Rs/ha-----
A.  IrrigatLon System
Watercourse and road                  115                   165
Outlets                                 3                     4
Syphon outlets                         15                   20
Road crossings                         19                   26
Tail es;cape                            2                     3
Drop sc:ructure                        -                    28
Pipe czossing                           1                     1
Sub-Total                       155                   247
B. Drainage
Field drain                           192                  275
Culverts                               33                   40
Drop structure                         -                    38
Sub-Total                       225                   353
C.  Realignment and Land Leveling          550                 1,100
Sub-Total                                 930                  1,700
D. Engineering and
Adminisltration - 20%                 185                   340
Sub-Total                               1,115                  2,040
L.  Physical Contingency - 15%             165                   310
Sub-Total                               1,280                  2,350
F.  Crop Corpensation                      150                   150
Total                               1,430                  2,500
Assumed distribution of classes: /a               55%                    45%
Area (ha)                                    27,500                 22,500
------RB Million-----------
Total Cost:  On-Farm Development    39.3                      56.2
95.5
/a   See Annex 2, para 41, for definition of topography classes and
derivation of assumed distribution.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Cost Estimates: Roads
Item                                     Length (km)         Cost
Rs M
1.  Land Acquisition                                                    1.9
2. Improvement of Existing Roads
A. State Highways (Major Market Roads):
(i)  Sultanpur/Etawa Road                     37             4.3
B.  Major District Roads (Minor Market Roads):
(i)  Anta/Balakhera Road                       9              0.8
(ii)  Talera/Keshoraipaten Road                13              1.1
(iii)  Etawa/Rajopa Road                         5              0.4
(iv)  Keshoraipaten/Arnetha Road               12              1.1
C.  Otlher Roads (Village Roads)                    10              0.6
3. Construction of New Roads
A.  State Highways (Major Market Roads):
(i)  Kota/Balita/Keshoraipaten Road           16              4.0
B.  Major District Roads (Minor Market Roads):
(i)  Balakhera/Siswali/Dibri Road             21              4.5
(ii)  Ganeshganj/Mangrol Road                  25              4.8
(iii)  Rajopa/Kathoda Road                      38              7.8
C.  Other District Roads (Feeder Roads):
ti)  Mandawar/Sultanpur Road                  14              1.9
(ii)  Keshoraipaten/Khatgarh                   26              4.9
D.  Other Roads (Village Roads)                     21              2.2
Sub-Total                               247             40.3
4.  Administration, Design and Supervision - 4.5%                        1.7
5.  Vehicles and Equipment /a                                           8.0
Sub-Total                                               50.0
6.  Physical Contingencies - 10%                                        5.0
Total Cost:  Roads                                55.0
/a For project supervision and hire to contractors (Annex 5, Table 3).
After project completion, the equipment would be used for maintenance.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Cost Estimates: Project Administration and Operating Costs
Total Cost
Annual Cost at   during Project
Item                               Full D    Ppment  Implementation
--------- isMllion ------
Project Administration
Office of thie Commissioner)
Revenue Department          )                              0.3                1.8
Cooperatives Department   )
Technical Assistance and Train.n  (para 5.22)
On-Farm Development Adviser                                  .                0.7
Training ani Travel for Project Personnel                    .                003
Sub-Total                                                 .                 1.0
Operation and Maintenance
Irrigation Systeri (Share of Rajasthan)al                  7.2              44.0
Drainage System_/                                          5.3               21.9
Introduction of Warab3ndi System                           1.0                2.0
Compensatory Maintenance                                     .                3.0
Roads                                                      1.9                3.0
Suib-Total                                              15.4              73.9
Extension and Research
Extension Equipmert                                                           o.8
Resaarch Ecuiprment         /                                                 0.5
Extension Oneratirg Costs-/                                365               20.0
Sub-Total                                                3.5               21.3
Total: Project Administration and Operating
Costs (1974-19Ti0)7                                            98.0
a/ Share of Madhya Pradesh would be Rs3.8 million per year at full development.
b/  Assumes araa would increase linearly from 60,000 ha in year 1 to 167,000 ha
in year -).
c/ Full cost reached in year 2.
d/ Costs of operating and maintaining the on-farm works would be borne directly
,y farmers and are therefore not included here.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
(HAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Equipment Requirements
1.        Estimated equipment requirements for project management, for
construction of the force account portions of the project works (para 4.25),
and for hire to contractors, in the case of roads, are listed in the
following tables. These lists should be used as a guide only and would be
revised as detailed project planning progresses, and more experience is
gained with various construction methods. This is particularly so for on-
farm development works, and therefore, the services of an adviser would be
available to assist in equipment selection (para 5.22). It is also proposed
that part of the on-farm development equipment would be purchased in the
third year of project implementation, following field evaluation of the
initial batch. A nine-month delivery period for imported equipment has
been assumed.
2.        Prices shown in the tables inc:lude delivery to the project area
and are in late-1973 currency values. To obtain expected actual costs,
expected price increases based on world-wide trends are included as follows:
-Bank Fiscal Year-----
Item                       1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   Total
Irrigation & Drainage Equipment
(Table 1)                         16.7        5.8         -        22.5
On-farm Development Equipment
(Table 2)                          8.3         -         12.0      20.3
Road Equipment (Table 3)                 6.7        2.3          -       9.0
Extension & Research Equipment
(Table 4)                          1.4         _           _1.4
Suib-Total                   33.1        8.1        12.0     53.2
Expected Pr-ice Increases:
%                                 14         25          32.5      20
Rs MilLion                         4.6        2.0         3.9      10.5
Total Cost of Equipment:          37.7       10.1        15.9      10.5
= US$8.0 million
of which, foreign exchange (90%) - US$7.2 million



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMET PROJECT (RAJASTrHAN)
a/
Equipment List: Irrigation and Drainage
Unit                Method of
Item                 Quantity    Price    Total    Procurement-b
--Rs '000-----
1. Project Management
Car                           1          30         30        LCB
Station wagon                 2          35         70        LCB
Field vehicle                30          30       900         RP
Mini-bus                       1         35         35        LCB
Sub-Total                                       1,035
Spare Parts -- 15%                                   155
Sub -Total                                      1,190
2. Survey Equipment                .          LS        320         LCB
3. Office and Design Equipment   .            LS        200         LCB
4. Operation and Maintenance -
Enfor-ement of Warabandi
System
Bicycle                      70        0.25         18        LOB
Wristwatch                   70        0.12          8        LCB
Clock                       850        0.05         42        LCB
Miscellaneous                 .          LS         12        LCB
Sub-Total                                           80
5. Construction Eauipmentc/
(i) Drainage
Dragline, 3/8 m3 with
attachments           22        300      6,600         ICB
Dragline, 1.5 m3 with
attachments            3        500      1,500         ICB
Bulldozer, 90-105 hp
with rotor             3         323       969         IOB
Road grader               1         250        250        ICB
Pumpset, 5 hp            50           5       250         LCB
Dump truck, 10 ton        6         250     1,500         RP
Sub-Total (carried forward)                     11,069
a/  All equipment costs are aElocated to the appropriate civil. works and
project achinistration items in the Project Cost Estimate (Annex 4)e
b/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP - Reserved Procurement.
c/ Some of these items would be used for operation and maintenance during
construction. All equipment still useable at the end of the project
construction period would be transferred to operation and maintenance.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 2
UTnit               Method of a!
Item                 Quantity    Price   Total       Procurement-
--Rs '000----
Sub-Total (brought forward)                    11,069
(ii) Lining
Concrete mixer           12          12       144          LCB
Vibrator                 24           3        72          LCB
Guniting equipment        4 sets    hO        240          LCB
(iii) Canal Capacity Works
Roller                    5          10        50          LCB
(iv) Aquatic Weed Control
Weed cutting boat         18         70    1,260           ICB
(v) General
Truck, 5 ton             24          80    1,920           RP
Tractor-trailer, 30 ton  1          400       400          ICB
Farm tractor, 75-90 hp   8           60       480          ICB
Crane, 30 ton capacity   2          500    1,000           ICB
Crane, 5 ton capacity    3          200       600          ICB
Compressor, 100 l/s       6          50       300          LOB
Portable generator,
15 kW                 12          20      240          LCB
Workshop equipment                   LS       200          LCB
Sub-Total                                      17,975
SpariF7Prt-s - 15%                                2,695
Sub-Total                                      20,670
Total: Irrigation and Drainage
Equipment                          22,460
a! ICE - International Competitive Bidding.
LCO - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP - Reserved Procurement.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA tEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Equipment List: On-Fanm  Developinent
Unit             Method of
Item                       Quantity  Price   Total Procuremente/
--Rs '000~----
1. Project Management
Field  vehicle                    10          30       300      RP
Pick-up triuek                     3          30       90       LCB
Motormycle                        30           6       180      LCB
S3ub-Total                                            570
Spare Parts - 15%                                         85
Sub-Total                                              655
2. Survey Equipment                      .         iS       200       LCB
3. Office and Design Equipment           .         iS       150       LCB
4. Construction Equi ment
(for force account construction)
E3levating scraper, 2.$5 m3       12 (4) b/  700    8,400       ICB
Drag scraper, 3-4 mr5             24 (8)      15      360       LCB
Wheel tractor, 75-90 hp           14 (6)      6O       840       ICB
WVheel tractor, 40-60 hp          10 (2)      40       400      ICB
Bulldozer, 90-105 hp               ' (2)    323    1,938        ICB
Motor grader                       3 (1)    250        750      ICB
Sheepsfoot roller, vibrating       6 (2)    100        600      ICB
Tractor-trailer, 40 ton            1         500       500      ICB
Truck, with water tank and
lubricator                      4 (2)    100       400       ICB
Truck, 5 ton                      12 (6)      80       960      RP
Miscellaneous equipment             .         LS       200      LCB
W.orkshop equipment                .          LS       100      LCB
Sub-TDtal                                          15,448
Spare Parts - 25%                                      3,862
Sub-Total                                          19,310
Total: On-Farm Development                     20 315
a! ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP - Reserved Procurement.
b/ Number in parentheses is number to be purchased in first batch, where
different from total.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
1NDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND LREA DEVELOPMENT WORKS (RAJAS'rHAN)
Equipment List: Roads
Unit              Method of
Item                        Quantity   Price   Total   Procureuent"/
---Rs 'Q00---
Road roller                               15        105    1,575        ICB
Bitumen mixer - (a) U'-10 ton              8         75      600        ICB
(b) 10-15 ton             1       200       200        ICB
Boiler                                    20          8      160        LCB
Stone crusher                              2        100      200        LCB
Concrete mixer                             2         25       50        LCB
Concrete vibrator                          6          3        18       LCB
Air compressor                             1         30       30        LCB
Drilling equipment                         1        100      100        LCB
Dwnp truck, 5 ton                         10        150    1,500        RP
Truck, 5 ton                              10         80      800        RP
Field vehicle                              4         30      120        RP
Water tanker                               5         90      450        RP
Bulldozer, 90-105 hp                       3        323      969        ICB
Tractor-trailer, 15 ton                    1        200      200        ICB
'Vibrating roller                          5         75       375       ICB
Farm tractor, 75-90 hp                     6         60      360        ICB
Si-rvey equipment                                    LS       50        LCB
Soil testing equipment                               LS       50        LCB
Sub-Total                                             7,807
Spare Parts - 15%                                          1,173
Total: Road Equipment                             8,980
a/ ICfB - International Competitive Bidding.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding.
RP  - Reserved Procurement.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOMIENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Equipment List: Extension and Research
Unit             Method of
Item                        Quantity   Price   Total   Procurement.
Agriculttural Extension
Field vehicle                          14       30       420       RP
Motorcycle                             27        6       162        LCB
Motorbicycle                          120        2.5     300        LCB
Misce'Llaneous                                  LS        44       LCB
Sub-Total                                              92c
Amount chargeable to Projectb/                           800
Agricultural Research
Field vehicle                          3       30         90       RP
Pick-uxp truck                         1       30         30       LCB
Tractor, 75-90 hp                      2        60       120       ICB
Tractor, 40 hp                         3       40        120       LOB
Trailer                                4        5         20       LOB
Tmplements                             *       LS         10       LCB
Laboratory equipment                   .       LS         30       LCB
Office equipment                       .       LS         20       LCB
Buildings                              .       LS         80
Research farm improvements             .       LS         40
Sub-Total                                              560
Total: Extension and Research
Eauipment                                1 360
a/  ICB   International Competitive Bidding.
LCB   Local Competitive Bidding.
RP    Reserved Procurement.
b/ Only 75% of the cost of motorcycles and motorbicycles would be chargeable
to the project, as loans would be made to the officers concerned for 75% of
the cost of these items.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVEWPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Schedule of Expenditures
Total ------         Bank Fiscal Years-------------
Cost    1974/5 1975/6 1976/7 1977/8 1978/9 1979/80
---- ---------Rs Millon------------------
1. Irrigation and Drainage   131.2        10.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   25.2
2. On-Fanm Development          84.0       5.0   10.3   14.o   16.7   18.0   20.0
3. Roads                        50.0       5.5    6.3    6.3    7.3   10.8   13.8
4. Afforestation                 1.2       0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.2    -
5. Supplementary Fertilizer   51.3        51.3    -               -      -       -
Sub-Total                 317.7      72.40   40o8   44.6   48.3   53.0   59.0
Physical Contingencies       32.5       2.5    5.3    5.7    6.0    6.3    6.7
Sub-Total                 350.2     74.5   46.1   50.3   54.3   59.3   65.7
Expected Price Increases:
%                           47        17     31      42     53      634    75
Rs Million               164.2     12.7   14.3   21.1   28.8   38.0   49,3
Sub-Total                514.b      87.2   60.4   71.4   83.1   97.3  115,0
6. Project Adrminisstration
and Operating Costs      90.0      17.0   14.5   15.0   16.0   17.0   18.5
Expected Price Increases:
%                           33       12      22      29     36      43     50
Rs Mill-on                31.6      2.0    3.2    4.4    5.8    7.2    9.
Sub-Tcta-                 120.6     19.0   17.7   19.4   21.8   24.2   27.5
TotaL 1- 6           644.o    106.2   78.1   90.8  104.9  121.5  142.5
7. Interest during con-
structicon                88.0      2.4    4.8    8.0   12.0   16.0   44.81/
Total Project Cost  732.0    108.6   82.9   98.8  116.9  137.5  187.3
1 InueitetfR40iln-                      - y
1/ Includes interest of Rs24.0 million for the year 1980/81.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COOM4AND AREA IEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Proposed
Estimated Cost       Allocation
Category                        Total   Foreign        of Loan
________--- U$Million-------
I. Civil Works
A.   Infrastructure                         22.8      5.7
Price Contingency                      12.0     3.0
Less:
Enuipment -with Price Contingency      (4.6)   (4.1)
Sub-Total                              30.2     4.6
Disbursen.ent would be 59% of Total
Costa/                                                              i8.0
B.   On-4arm Development W.brks             10.5      3.7
Price Contingency                       7.3     1.6
Less:
Ecuiprment with Price Contingency      (3.2)   (2.9)
Sub-Total                              1h.6     2.4
Disbursement would be 59% of Total
o st./                                                               8.6
II. Equipment and Vehicles
A.   Directly imported, (100% cif)   )
B.   Locally manufactured, (100%       )
ax-factory)                     )     6.7     6.o
C.   L7ported items procured locally,)
7Q'                             )
III. Fertilizer                o.4                      6.1
Disb2rsemert would be 100% of foreign
cost
TV. Technizal Assistance and TrainingE.'    0.1        0.1           0,1
DisbursemBnt would be 100% of foreign
cost
V. Intere3t and Other Charges               11.0    11.0            11.0
Sub-Tota   (carried forward)           69.0    30.2           48,2
a!  Percentage shown would be applied to civil works costs, including
engineering costs but net of equipment, purchases for force account works
or hire to contractors. The percentage would be revised periodically
during project implementation.
b/ Excldes some US$1.6 million for reserved local procurement.
c/  See Annex 4, Table 5.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 2
Propo sed
Estimated Cost       Allocation
Category                          Total   Foreign       of Loan
---US$ Million-
Sub-Total (brought forward)             69.0    30.2          48.2
VI. Unallocated
Civil Works - physical contingency       4.1      1.1
Equipment - price contingency            1.3      1.2
Fertilizer - price contingency           1.2      1.1
Sub-Total                                6.6      3.4          .3. a
Sub-Total (I through VI)                75.6    33.6          52.0
Project Administration and Operating
Costs°/                                      16.0      1.5
Less:
Technical Assistance                    (0.1)   (0.1)
Sub-Total                               15.9      1.4
Total                               91.5    35.0          52 0
a/ Equal to foreign cost plus 13% of local costs.
b/ There would be no disbursement against this item.



ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASrHAN)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year            Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                US$ Million Ecuivalent
1975
2nd                              3.1
1976
lst                              6.6
2nd                              9.4
1977
1st                             12.4
2nd                             15.8
1978
1st                             19.5
2nd                             23.6
1979
1st                             28.1
2nd                             33.5
1980
T--t                             39.1
2nd                             45.4
1981
1st                             52.0
2nd



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Organization, Management and Project Financing
Project Management and Coordination
1.        The present project is one of many similar proposed command area
development projects throughout India scheduled for implementation in the
next few years. Therefore, there has been concern both at the Central and
State levels in India to devise organizational arrangements which could
readily be duplicated elsewhere. Such projects would typically rehabilitate,
complete and modernize the irrigation, drainage and road networks in a
project area, carry out land development works on the farmers' fields
to enable better irrigation practices, and would improve agricultural
supporting services. In most cases, to carry out such a program in a
coordinated and efficient manner would require a unified project organiza-
tion. As a minimum, the project organization should direct and control
all activities of the Irrigation, Agriculture, Revenue and Cooperatives
Departments and coordinate the programs of the other departments dealing
with rural development in the command areas concerned.
2.        In view of the above considerations, the Government of Rajasthan
(GOR) has established at the State level, a Command Area Development and
Water Utilization (CAD & WU) Department headed by a Secretary reporting
to the Minister of Agriculture, and a Command Area Authority in the project
area, headed by an Area Development Commissioner (Charts 8599 and 8600). A
State-level Coordination Committee for Command Area Development and Water
Utilizatiois being set up, chaired by the Chief Minister of Rajasthan
and comprising the Ministers, Secretaries and Directors of all departments
concerned (Table 1). A coordinating committee headed by the Chief Secretary
will assist: the Secretary Command Area Development and Water Utilization
in their day to day activities. During the next five years, the CAD & WU
Department would deal primarily with the implementation of the Rajasthan
Canal CAD P'roject, the Chambal CAD Project and the Gang-Bhakra CAD Project
(not proposed for IDA financing).
Command Area Authority (CAA)
3.        The CAA was set up in March 1974 and is governed by a Board, chaired
by the Area Development Commissioner, and comprising the secretaries of the
departments concerned, representatives of credit institutions and farmer
representatives (Table 2). An Area Development Commissioner will be
nominated and selected jointly by the GOI and COR. A Command Area Con-
sultative Committee would be established to advise the Commissioner. It
would comprise representatives of the District Administrations and the
directors of those development departments which are not directly controlled
by the Area Development Commissioner.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        The Area Development Commissioner would be responsible for the
planning and implementation of all irrigation and on-farm development works,
for all agricultural supporting services, and for the organization and
management of cooperatives in the project area. As Revenue Commissioner
and Member of the Board of Revenue, he would also be responsible for all
Collectors and revenue officers in the command area. Through the Command
Area Consultative Committee, he would coordinate all other development
activities (such as roads and afforestation) in the project area. The
Public Works Department would set up a separate Circle in Chambal to be
solely responsible for the project road works. The Circle would be headed
by a Superintending Engineer responsible to a Chief Engineer in Jaipur.
The afforestation component of the project, being quite small, would be
handled by the existing Forestry Department organization in the project area.
5.        The CAA would be organized into four departments (Chart 8600) as
follows:
(a) The Agriculture Department, headed by a Joint Director
of Agriculture, would be respcnsible for research,
extension and other agricultural activities. The
organization of the extension service is described
in some detail in Reference 3;
(b)  The Cooperatives Department, headed by a Joint Registrar
of Cooperatives, would be responsible for regulating
and strengthening all cooperative societies, village
credit cooperatives and marketing societies in the
project area (Annex 9);
(c)  The Revenue Department, headec  Jointly by the Collectors
of Kota and Bundi Districts, would be responsible for
taking legal action to make land development compulsory,
for land registration and correction of land records,
for the preparation of loan applications (para 17), for
the recovery of special loans and for pre-extension
activities (para 9); and
(d) The Irrigation and Land Development Department would con-
sist of three Irrigation and Drainage Circles and one Land
Development Circle. Each Irrigation and Drainage Circle
would have a Construction Division and Operation and Main-
tenance Division (Chart 8601), and each would be responsi-
ble for all construction and operation and maintenance
activities in a separate part of the project area.
6.        As there has been very little experience with on-farm development
anywhere in India, the number of personnel experienced in this specialized
area of design and construction is very limited. Therefore, considerable
attention has been given to devising a form of organization which would
make optimum use of scarce talent, facilitate in-service training and lend
itself to rapid expansion. The Land Development Circle (Chart 8601) would



ANNEX 7
Page 3
be responsible for the construction of all on-farm works under the project
(Annex 2). For the reasons just stated, the Land Development Circle would
be organized along functional lines into three operational units and
three supporting units. Each unit would be responsible for its particular
activity throughout the project area. The operational units would be the
Survey Unit, headed by an experienced surveyor, on secondment from the
Survey of India, the Planning and Design Unit, headed for the first two
years of project implementation by an experienced on-farm development expert
(para 5.22) and the Works Unit, headed by an executive engineer experienced
in earthwork and the operation of heavy mechanical equipment. Draft terms
of reference for the on-farm development expert are given in Table 3. One
of the supporting units would be a Research and Development Unit, operating
in close coordination with the Planning and Design Unit and the Works Unit
in the development of new design and implementation techniques for on-farm
development works. The other two supporting units would be an Administration
Unit, responsible for the preparation of farmers' files (para 18), and coordi-
nation with other CAA units responsible for command area development, and a
Workshops and Stores Unit.
Financing of Project Works (see also Annex 8)
7.        Irrigation, drainage, roads and afforestation works would be
financed by annual allocations from the GOR budget. A new head of ex-
penditure, "Command Area Development", has been created within the Agri-
cultural Sector of the GOI and GOR development programs. A new budget
head for Command Area Development has also been created in the GOR budget
to cover:
(a) Non-Plan (i.e. recurrent) outlays for the existing
Agriculture, Irrigation and Cooperatives Departments in
the project area; and
(b) New Plan (i.e. capital) allocations for these departments.
Budgetary earmarkings for the command areas would also be made for all
the other development departments concerned, namely, Public Works, Forestry,
Animal Husbandry, Sheep and Wool, Dairy, Education, Medical and Public
Health, Water Supply, Town Planning and Power. For the Chambal Command
Area, only the Roads and Forestry components would be significant enough
for separate inclusion in the proposed project.
8.        As implementation of a systematic on-farm development program
must include whole chaks (Annex 2), development would be compulsory and
the cost of works would be recovered from the beneficiaries or from the
land benefitted. Legal powers to carry out such compulsory on-farm devel-
opment and to recover the costs of development would be available under the:
(a) Rajasthan Colonization Act, as amended;
(b) Rajasthan Irrigation and Drainage Act, as amended; and
(c) Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) Act.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Amendments of the Rajasthan Colonization and Irrigation and Drainage Acts have
been sanctioned. The RLDC Act has already been drafted. After discussions
with the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC), the commercial banks and
the Banking Department of the Government: of India, the draft Act has been
revised and will be submitted to the State Cabinet for approval by July 1, 1974.
9.        The success of a chak-wide on--farm development program is, how-
ever, not only dependent on the availability of adequate legal instruments
but also on the willingness of the great majority of the farmers to partici-
pate in the program. A special effort would therefore be made by the CAA
to convince farmers that the proposed works would be to their benefit. The
Revenue Department would lead a pre-extension effort in the chaks scheduled
for on-farm development. The pre-extension teams would be reinforced, as
required, by agricultural extension specialists and land development engineers,
who would explain the proposed program and demonstrate the effect of the
development to the villagers. Slides, short films and inspections tours
to existing pilot projects in the project area would form part of the pre-
extension effort, which would be implemented in two phases: the first phase
before the initial survey work is carried out; and the second phase at the
time when the chak files are ready to be discussed by the Revenue Depart-
ment personnel with the village authorities and the farmers.
10.       Most of the on-farm development works implemented over the last
few years were financed directly from GOR's development budget, with cost
recovery through betterment levies on the developed land. However, col-
lection of these levies has not been satisfactory, as local political pres-
sures, in many instances, forced the GOR to suspend collections or cancel
them completely.
11.       T.e proposed financing plan for on-farm development works under
the project is aimed at keeping GOR's budgetary liabilities to a minimum.
Financing would be provided to farmers f'rom two sources:  commercial and land
development bank loans and "special loars", from GOI. Long-term loans from
commercial 'Danks and land development banks secured by mortgages on the land
scheduled for development, would provide the major source of finance for
on-farm development. Eighty percent of such loan amounts would be refinanced
by ARC.  Commercial and land development banks would establish their usual
direct relationship with their borrowers and use their own loan recovery
mechanisms. An effort would be made to ensure that as many farmers as possible
were eligible for commercial bank loans, through a campaign to update land
records and to recover past debt arrears. This would be desirable, as
alternative sources of finance, such as special loans (Annex 9), would be
subject to some degree of political pressure. Low recoveries would place an
unacceptable burden on the GOR budget (para 15).
12.       Farmers ineligible for commercial loans because of defective land
titles or because of overdues on debts to local authorities, cooperatives
or commercial financing institutions, would be provided with unsecured
"special loans" from the Rajasthan Land Development Corporation (RLDC) to
be set up for the project (Annex 8). An estimated 30% of the on-farm
development works would be financed in this way. Funds would be provided



ANNEX 7
Page 5
by GOI to RLDC at 7% interest for a period of fifteen years and on-lent
at an interest rate above that for commercial loans. Farmers who would be
eligible for commercial loans but who, for any reason, refuse to apply for
such loans, would be provided with special loans at a higher rate of interest.
All special loans would be recovered through a surcharge on the existing
land tax.
13.       Farm budget calculations (Annex 13) indicate that, even under rather
conservative assumptions, an investment of up to Rs 2,750/ha for on-farm
development works could be repaid by nearly all of the farmers. Therefore,
this amount has been proposed as a ceiling for determining which chaks
should be excluded from the project. However, topographic conditions vary
within each chak and in some cases, although the total on-farm development
costs for a chak may average less than this proposed ceiling, the development
costs for individual holdings might be considerably more.  In such cases,
the repayment capacity of the affected farmers would be investigated by the
CAA and either the loan limit would be raised (for example, if the holding
is large) or, if the farmers were unable to carry a loan in excess of
Rs 2,750/ha, a GOI disadvantaged farmer subsidy would be provided under one
of the existing GOI programs (para 14). The amount of subsidy would be
determined on a case-by-case basis.
14.       Farmers with holdings between 1 and 2 ha are officially classified
as "small farmers" and would receive a GOI subsidy under its small farmer
program equal to 25% of their on-farm development costs. Bona fide farmers
with holdings of 1 ha or less, are classified as "marginal farmers" and would
get a subsidy of 33%. An estimated additional 5% of the project area is in
need of land reclamation in order to return saline soils to productive use
and farmers with such soils would be eligible for a GOI subsidy for this
work.
15.       RLDC would act as an agent for the participating commercial and land
development banks in the preparation and initial processing of loan applica-
tions, for the channeling of GOI subsidies and for providing special loans
to ineligible farmers. As a Government corporation, its liabilities, as a
result of slow loan recoveries, would affect the GOR Budget. To reduce these
liabilities to a minimum, all farmers el:Lgible for commercial credit would
be directed to participating commercial banks. Although legal powers would
be available (para 8) to enforce compulsory land development, it would not be
possible to force famers to apply for cormmercial loans. Land development
works for farmers who refuse to apply for commercial credit would be financed
from RLDC special loan funds. To reduce the number of such cases, these
loans would carry harsher repayment conditions (para 12). The RLDC Act
would provide the necessary legal powers for such compulsory funding.
16.       RLDC would channel all commercial credit, special loans and subsi-
dies to the CAA which would carry out the on-farm works (Annex 2). To ensure
an uninterrupted work program, RLDC would advance construction funds to the
CAA pending the scrutiny and sanction of loan applications by its own staff
and the commercial banks. Interest charges for these funds would be
financed from RLDC's own resources (Annex: 8).



ANNEX 7
Page 6
17.       ro date, the commercial and Land development banks active in the
project area have had varying standards of eligiblity for granting long-term
loans and iave required different types of documentation for their loan
applications. Under the proposed new procedures, RLDC and the participating
commercial banks would draw up a standardized application form, which would
be used for the preparation of all commercial and special loan applications.
All applications would be prepared by the Revenue Department of the CAA under
the general supervision of the RLDC branch office. The use of Revenue
staff for this work would be advantageous as they keep the land records
necessary for executing mortgages, they are the designated agencies, under
the Rajasthan Colonization Act, for issuing the compulsory land development
notices to farmers and they have an extensive field organization in place.
Commercial and land development banks would second representatives to the
CAA to ensure that standards for loan applications were being adhered to.
18.       Loan applications would be based on the chak and farmers' files
(Reference 1). RLDC would receive these files from the Land Development
Circle of the CAM. The loan amount would be based on the estimated cost for
land leveling works on the farmer's original holding and a proportional share
of the construction cost of the watercourses, drains and roads. The com-
pleted loan applications would be returned from the field and processed by
the RLDC branch office. Eligible farmers who have signed loan applications
would be referred for financing to the lead commercial bank or to the land
development bank. The commercial bank would review the application and,
within a stipulated time, inform RLDC whether the loan would be sanctioned.
Application,s of eligible farmers who have been refused by commercial banks
would be reviewed by an appeal commission, composed of a representative
of the commercial bank, the Regional Director of RLDC in the project area
and an independent chairman. Eligible farmers who have refused to sign a
loan application, ineligible farmers and farmers whose loan applications
have been refused by the commercial banks and such refusal upheld by the
appeal commission, would be financed by special loans through RLDC.
19.       GOR and ARC have appointed a committee to draw up a banking plan,
dividing the project area into zones of operation for the two lead banks
and other commercial and land development banks participating in the scheme.
Each lead bank would be responsible for coordinating all banking activities
in its district. The other banks would be assigned smaller operating areas.
Sufficient bank branches exist to handle the volume of lending expected under
the project but staff training would be required. The financial position
of the participating banks is satisfactory and, with ARC refinancing 80% of
the loan amounts, no shortage of funds is anticipated.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
CHAABAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECr (RAJASTHAN)
Coordination Committee for Command Area Development and Water Utilization
Chief Minister                                           Chairman
Minister for Irrigation
Minister for Agriculture
Minister for Planning
Minister for Finance
Minister for Cooperation
Minister for Revenue
Chief Secretary
Agriculture Production Secretary
Special Secretary, Planning
Commissioner, Irrigation and Power
Financial Commissioner
Revenue Commissioner
Chairman, Rajasthan Canal Board
Chief Engineer, Irrigation
Area Development Commissioner (Rajasthan Canal)
Area Development Commissioner (Chambal)
Area Development Commissioner (Gang-Bhakra)
Secretary, Command Area Development and Water
Utilization Department                                 Member Secretary
Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Planning Commission equal or above the
rank of Joint Secretary will also be members



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMNAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Command Area Board
Area Development Commissioner                      Chairman and Administrator
Secretary, Command Area Development and
Water Utilization
Commissioner Irrigation or his representative
Commissioner Finance or his representative
Commissioner Revenue and Forest or his representative
Special Secretary, Planning
Representative of Credit Institutions (one)
Two Representatives of Farmers one of which will be from the weaker section
(holdings of less than 2 ha)
Two nominees from PRAMUKHS and other elected representatives
Deputy Area Development Commissioner



ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDIA
CILA1MBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
On-Farm Development Expert: Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The expert should be familiar with the planning, design and imple-
mentation of on-farm development works in areas with similar climate, crops,
farm sizes and implementation constraints to Rajasthan.
2.        Qualifications required:
Agricultural Engineer, or Irrigation and Drainage
Engineer, or qualified Technician with appropriate
field experience.
3.        Experience required, in the following fields:
(a) Layout of small-scale irrigation and drainage networks
and realignment of farm boundaries;
(b) Design and computation of earthworks for land shaping
and leveling including terracing;
(c) Construction of watercourses, drains, roads and land
shaping and leveling, by hand labor and light machinery;
(d)  Selection and procurement of nachinery;
(e) Irrigation methods and reclamation techniques, including
farm drains, mole drains, subsoiling and chemical treatment;
(f) Operation and maintenance procedures for on-farm development;
and
(g)  Training of counterpart personnel.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation
General
1.        The proposed Rajasthan Land Developmcnt Corporation (RLDC) would
be a statutory corporation of the State of Rajasthan created for the
purpose of:
(a) undertaking programs of on-farm development works
In Rajasthan;
(b) operating as an agency for financing these programs;
and
(c)  recovering the amounts spent on developmental programs
fror. the owners of the land.
2.        The proposed Corporation w.ould finance land development projects.,
in which participation by all the concerned landholders is made compuLaory
by law and for which repayment is obligatory.  The RLDC Act stipulates;,.
in this connection, that it shall be obligatory for all holders of land
coming within the purview of an RLDC compulsory land development scheme-
to apply for ordinary bank loans, if thev have the legal capacity to-do
so, or othenrise accept "special loans" from the Corporation.  The -farmers
would also have the options of doing the work themselves or paying -cash
for it.
3.        The Revenue Department would have special powers to facilitate
the recoverv of special loans on behalf of RLDC,including:
(a)  the power to take over the management of the lands of
defaulting cultivators until all sums due are
realized:
(b) in the case of lands irrigated by a Government-owned
irrigation source, the power to stop the supply of
irrigation water to such land; and
(c) the power to hypothecate (pledge as security) the
produce of the land of defaulting cultivators.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The share capital of RLDC would be made up of equal contributions
from GOI and GOR.  Funds for special loans would be lent by GOI to RLDC
through OR. RLDC would also be able to borrow short-term funds from
banks.  RLDC would supervise the preparation of loan applications, assign
as many of them as possible to commercial and land development banks, and
finance the others itself as special loans (Annex 7). It would also channel
to the CAA, in pace with construction, the proceeds of these loans as well
as of its own loans. It would be responsible for the collection of the
special loans.
Organization and Management
5.        The RLDC headquarters in Jaipur would be organized as follows:
CHAIRMAN
(Secretary, CAD & WU ex-officio)
Managing Director
Chief Loans          Chief Technical               Chief          Legal Officer
Officer               Officer                Accountant
Lending,              Project                    Loan             Agreements
Borrowing             Appraisal                  Accounts
The Board of Directors of RLDC would be appointed by the shareholders (GOI
and GOR) and would consist of the following:
(a) Chairman, Secretary CAD & WU (Ex-officio);
(b) Representative of the Managing Director, ARC;
(c) Financial Commissioner, GOR;
(d) Representative of the Joint Secretary (CAD), GOI;
(e) Other representatives of the G0I from the Planning
Commission and the Ministry of Finance;
(f) Area Development Commissioner (Rajasthan Canal);
(g) Area Development Commissioner (Chambal); and
(h) Managing Director, RLDC.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
The Headquarters staff would consist of:
(a)  Managing Director;                       )
(b)  Chief Loans Officer;                     )
(c)  Assistant Loan Officer - Loans;          )  Loans
(d)  Assistant Loan Officer - Borrowing;      )  Division
(e)  Assistants;                              )
(f)  Chief Accountant;                        )
(g)  Three Accountants;                       )  Accounts
(h)  Junior Accountants;                      )  Division
(i)  Legal Officer;                           )  Legal
(j)  Legal Assistant;                         )  Division
(k)  Chief Technical Officer; and              )  Appraisal
(1)  Project Officers (as required).          )  Division
The Project Appraisal Division would consist of one or two technical
experts. If necessary, RLDC would borrow its experts from the CAD & WU
Department of the GOR.
6.        RLDC would set up a small branch office in the Chambal project
area to coordinate its field activities. This office would consist of
a Loan Officer, an Accountant and a number of supporting personnel. In
addition many officers of the CAA would also have power to act as agents
of RLDC in preparing and sanctioning loan applications.
Financing of On-Farm Development
7.        On-farm development works would be implemented by the CAA and
financed by the farmers, through long-term commercial or special loans.
Commercial bank loans would be for at least ten years with an appropriate grace
period on the repayment of principal. Heavier repayment conditions would
apply to special loans (Annex 7). Disadvantaged farmers (small and marginal
farmers, and farmers with excessive land shaping or reclamation costs)
would receive a GOI subsidy of up to 33% of the cost of on-farm development.
All subsidies and loans would be channeled to the CAA through RLDC.
8.        Table 1 gives a breakdown of on-farm development costs in
constant prices over the six-year development period and the sources of
funds for this project and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development
Project. Engineering costs, which are included in the land development
costs to be financed by the farmers, would be covered from budgetary
allocations by GOR. RLDC would withold an equivalent amount from the loan
amounts made available to it, to meet its own operating costs.



ANNEX 8
9.        The following diagram shows the flow of funds:
Government of Rajasthan *           y -   I Government of India
I~~~~~~~~~ II|
C  I                          I I 
Implementation                                          I     - '
Agencies        (x + y + 8) -e -           ---x--   Comrcial p.8 x-- IA
a 2JDevelopment
I                 :          i   ~~~~~~~~Banks
0                I         /      ~~~~~~~Repayment
On-Farm        ___;  Farmers
Development                                    rs
x - comercial loans, including cost of engineering.
y -GOI special loans, including cost of engineering.
s - GOI subsidies, a percentage of land development costs including
engineering.
e - engineering cost (15% of cost of works).
Operating Accounts and Sources and Applications of Funds
10.       RLDC would have a share capital of at least Rs 40 million, to be
provided equally by GOI and GOR. The share capital would be used to provide
advance payments to the CAA between the receipt of farmers' loan applications
and the sanction of loans by the commercial banks, for equipment purchases in
the first and third years of the project, and to cover bad debts in its
outstanding special loans which would be repayable to GOI.  The advance
payments for procurement of equipment would be amortized over five years
and amortization payments would be deducted from construction payments to
the CAA. At the end of the construction period, the machines would
remain the property of GOR and RLDC accounts would be credited with their
salvage value. Projected RLDC operating accounts for both this project
and the Rajasthan Canal Coummnd Area Development Project, in constant prices,
are shown in Table 2, while projected sources and application of funds are
shown in Table 3. A cumulative operating surplus of about Rs 55 million
would be generated over the six-year period, which would either be refunded
to the GOI and GOR or used for further projects.



ANNEX 8
Table I
DNDIA
CHAMBAL COHMAND ARBA INVELOPNENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
On-Farm Development Financing Scheme
(Rs Million)
-------------Project Year -------------
Item                1      2       3      4      5      6     Total
Construction Cost of
On-Farm Development
Raj-asthan Canal
Project             47.8  63.8   79.7   79.7   47.8    0.0   318.8
Chambal Project        5.7  11.8  16.0   19.0   20.4   22.6    95.5
Sub-Total          53.5  75.6  95.7  98.7   68.2   22.6   414.3
Less:
GOT disadvantaged
fanmer subsidy       2.3    3.6    4.6    4.8    4.0    1.2    20.5
Total Credit       51.2  72.0  91.1   9309   64.2   21.4   393.8
Flnancinr  net_,                                    ,      ,,
of subsidy)
GOI Special Loans
20% of Rajasthan
Canal credit volume  9.6   12.8   15.9   15.9    9.6  00    63.8
30% of Chanbal credit
volume               1.7    3.5    4.8    5.7    6.1    6.8    28.6
Total              11.3  16.3   20.7   21.6   15.7    6.8    92.4
a/ First inplementation year to begin October, 1974.
b/ Includes engineering costs, but excludes price contingencies.



ANINEX 8
INDI1
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT P1tJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation - Operating Accounts
(Rn 2illioa)
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6          Total
Revenues
1. Recovery from loans and grants of
engineering costs payable to GOR                  8.0     11.3      14.4     14.8      10.2       3.4         62.1
2. Interest margin of 3.07% on GOI loans                 -        0.3      0.8       1.4       2.1      2.6          7.2
3. Amortization payments by CAA for equipment
loaned from RLDC at a rate of use of
2,000 hours/year out of a useful life
of 8,000 hours                                     -       2.0       8.0      10.0     12.0       3.0         35.0
4. Salvage value payment for RLDC equipment
sold to GOR                                        '                                              8.9          8.9
Total                                       8.0      13.6      23.2     26.2      24.3      17.9       113.2
Expenditures
5. Preparation of loan applicationsl'                   0.5       0.7      1.0       1.0      0.7       0.2          4.1
6. RLDC establishment costZ/                            0.5       0.7      1.0       1.0      0.7       0.2          4.1
7. Interim financing of project works3f                 0.6       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.4       0.3          2.8
8. Purchase of machinery for CM - letter
credit4/                                          9.9       -       10.0        -        -         -          19.9
9. Purchase of machinery for CAA - payment-5/            -      10.0        -       14.0        -        -          24.0
10. Recovery of special loans, administrative
Costs_/                                           0.3      0.4       0.5       0.5      0.4       0.2          2.3
11. Contingencies7/                                      0.1       0.2      0.3       0.3      0.2       0.1          1.2
Total                                      11.9      12.5      13.3     17.3       2.4       1.0         58.4
-            _       _        _         __ 
Surplus                                                  -        1.1      9.9       8.9      21.9     16.9         58.7
Deficit                                                 3.9             -        -              -        -           3.9
Cumulative                                             -3.9      -2.8      7.1      16.0      37.9     54.8         54.8
Share Capital                                          20.0      10.0     10.0        -                  -          40.0
1/ One percent of total loan volume channeled through RLDC.
2/ One percent of loan volume channeled through RLDC.
3/ Interim financing advanced to CAA for an average of 3 months at 127. interest, between the receipt of loan
applications and the sanctioning of the loans by the commercial banks.
4/ Opening of letter of credit.
5/ Delivery and payment for equipment.
6f/ Cost of recovery of special loans estimated at 21. of loan volume.
7/ Contingencies of 10,% on Items 5, 6 and 10.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Rajasthan Land Development Corporation - Sources and Application of Funds
(Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Projects Only)
(Rs Million)
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6           Total
Sources of Funds
1. Share Capital-                                      20.0     10.0       10.0       -        -         -          40.0
2. GOI GrantW,(subsidy)l/                               2.3      3.6        4.6       4.8     4.0       1.2         20.5
3. GOI Loans-       4/                                 11.3     16.3       20.7      21.6    15.7       6.8         92.4
4. Commercial Loans-                                   39.9     55.7       70.4      72.3    48.5      14.6        301.4
5. Amortijtion payments for equipment from
CAA-                                               -       2.0        8.0     10.0    12.0        3.0         35.0
6. Salvage value of equipment f3rgm CA6A /               _         _        _                   -       8.9          8.9
7. Interest of 10% on GOI Loans-t                        -       1.1        2.8       4.8     7.0       8.6         24.3
Total                                      73.5      88.7     116.5    113.5    87.2       43.1        522.5
Application of Funds
1. Preparation of loan applications_/                   0.5      0.7        1.0       1.0     0.7       0.2          4.1
2. RLDC establishment costs./                           0.5      0.7        1.0       1.0     0.7       0.2          4.1
3. Interim financing of CAA paym21ts8/                  0.6       0.5       0.5       0.5     0.4       0.3          2.8
4. Purchase of machinery for CAA_/                      9.9      10.0      14.0      10.0       -        -          43.9
5. Construction payments to CAAlO/                     45.5     64.3       81.3      83.9    58.0      19.2        352.2
6. Interest payment GOR/GOI - 7%                         -        0.7       1.9       3.3     4.9       6.1         16.9
Total                                      57.0      76.9       99.7     99.7    64.7       26.0       424.0
Surplus                                                16.5     11.8       16.8      13.8    22.5      17.1        985 0
Cumulative                                             16.5      28.3      45.1      58.9    81.4      98.5          -
1/ Share capital provided equally by GOI and GOR.
2/ Subsidies for small and other disadvantaged farmers.
3/ GOI special loans for farmers ineligible for commercial loans or unwilling to apply to commercial banks. The
loan is given at a 7% interest rate to GOR and on loan to farmers at 10% to 13% interest. For this table, 10% was
taken.
4/  Loans at 10% for ten years with 80% of the loan discounted by ARC.
s,' CMA will pay RLDC each year an amortization payment for equipment received from RLDC. In year 2 for 4,000
hours, in year 3 for 1,600 hours, in year 4 for 2,000 hours and year 5 for 2,400 hours, for a total life of 8,800
hours.
6/ At the end of the construction period the equipment would not yet be fully amortized. Salvage value for the
equipment will be credited to RLDC at the end of year 5. The equipment will become the property of GOR after
reducing RLDC's payables accordingly.
7/ One percent of the total loan volume channeled through RLDC for loan applications and one percent for RLDC
establishment costs.
8/ RLDC will advance construction funds to CAA as soon as the loan applications for commercial loans have been
received. Processing by the commercial banks is estimated to take three months. Interim financing not covered by
share capital will be borrowed by RLDC from the commercial banks at 1% interest per month.
9/ The machine purchases will be effected in year 1 and 3. Letter of Credits will be opened in these years.
Machines will be delivered in year 2 and 4 before the construction season.
10/ Construction funds to CAA will be net of engineering costs. Engineering costs have been advanced by GOR
budgetary resources and are payables to GOR at the end of the projects.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
I*JDIA
CRAMfBAL COMIAND APEA DEVELOP"TNT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        In order to maximize the benefits of the proposed investments
in phvsical facilities, complementary and closely coordinated efforts
are needed in all the agricultural supporting services. In the past,
India's progress in agriculture has beern constrained perhaps more by a
lack of sustained effort in these areas than in the construction of
facilities such as irrigation projects. The more important services
and inputs are described below.
I. PRESENT STATIIS
Agricultural Research
2.        Agricu]tural research in the Chambal Project Area is making a
significant contribution to the potential for increased agricultural pro-
duction. Several research stations are in or near the project area, the
most important being the Borkhera station near Kota, and work there on
rice and sugarcane and a few other crops is of significant value to the
area. Higher-yielding sugarcane varieties resistant to red rot are
soon to be released. Much work in rice breeding is underway at Borkhera
and many promising crosses are being tested. The goal of the program is
to obtain short-statured, stiff-strawed varieties with good quality and
the scented characteristics of local varieties.
3.        Oi:her state research centers, notably for wheat, are outside
the project area but their results are available to the project area.
A sunflower improvement program for the State of Rajasthan is being
conducted al: Karkhamabagh. This will be of immediate benefit to the
project area.
4.        Applied research is carried out at the Nanta and Digod Research
Farms, under an Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) program
entitled, iNew Cropping Pattern and Water Use Project", which began in
1971 and has been supported by the UNDP. The programs of applied research
are well or: ented to the problems of the area and designed to obtain
practical answers. Research has concentrated on determining optimum
rates of seed, water and fertilizer use for various crops, the effect of
planting date on yield, and investigations of the various soil and water
problems of the project area. Some recent representative projects of
special interest are the following:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(a)  Rice production and water use pattern of three rice
varieties under different dates of nursery sowing
and nitrogen levels;
(b)  Moisture retention and transmission characteristics
c,f the soils of the Command Area;
(c)  Fluctuations in salt content of soils in the Chambal
Cormmand Area;
(d)  Water qua]ity in the Cora.iand Area;
(e)  Aquatic -zced control experiments; and
(f)  Effects of different moisture regimes on wheat varieties.
Soil Surveys
5.        The Soil Survey Unit of the Department of Agriculture is carrying
out a semi-detailed survev of the entire project area which is providing
useful information on soil capabilities and especially on drainage require-
ments.  The suLrvey is approximately 15'0 complete but covers only part of the
area proposeO. for nn-fnrm1 developmcnt.  Sampling depth is limited to 1.5 m,
which is insufficiCLut for a full assessnient of drainage nieeds.
I:xt Ons ;io
6.        Tile Director of the Department: of Agriculture of Rajasthan State is
responsible for all research and extension activities in the State. At the
lHead Office there are several subject matter specialists for the various
crops and Fir related fields such as plant protection and farm machinery.
,:xtension activities in tho project area are at present supervised by a R1egional
Joint Director of Agriculture with two D'istrict Agricultural Officers in the
project area, assistec' by a few subject matter specialists.  Each of the
six blocks in the project area has one Block Development Officer assisted by
an Agricultiral Extension Officer. Each Agricultural Extension Officer is
nssisted at present by 15 Village Level Workers (VLW's) at the field level.
Altogether :here are six Block Development Officers, six Agricultural Ex-
tension Officers and about 90 VLW's in the project area. The Agricultural
flxtension OTficers are university graduates but most of them lack a practical
agricultural background. The VLW's are high school graduates who have taken
a special agricultural course and a number of these have an adequate agricul-
tural bacl<ground.  ?tuch has been achieved in the agricultural development of
the area but, even so, extension work under the prevailing arrangements has
not been entirely effective and satisfactory. The VLW's are local government
emplovees and are responsible to the panchayats (village committees). On
technical natters they report to the Agricultural Extension Officers.  In
practice the VLW's devote only about one-quarter of their time to agricultural



ANEX 9
Page 3
extension work. The rest of their time is devoted to work with cooperatives,
acting as secretaries to the panchayats and dealing with education, public
health, the distribution of inputs, family planning and small savings. A
lack of adequate transportatioh also reduces the efficiency of extension work
at all levels.
7.        The farmers in the area are generally very responsive to innova-
tion. With adequate technical help, they will certainly adopt farm
practices that will enable them to increase considerably their yields
and income within a short time. This is demonstrated by some of the
progressive farmers who have had access to extension advice, irrigation
water and other inputs and are obtaining yields three to four times the
average for the area.
Fertilizers
8.        Cultivators in the Chaimbal project area are strongly aware of
the benefits of fertilizer on their main crops of wheat and paddy and,
were it not for supply shortages, would use near optimum amounts. This
is more true nearer Kota and the experiment stations than farther away.
Cultivators in general are also aware that the new varieties of paddy and
wheat are more demanding than local varieties and must have more fertilizer -
particularly nitrogen. The use of diammoaium phosphate is also accepted
as a source of nitrogen and phosphorous for improved varieties. However,
on crops other than wheat, paddy and sugarcane, the use of fertilizer is
very low and sometimes nil. Most of these crops are local low-yielding
varieties but, even so, moderate amounts of fertilizer would give a
good return. Sorghum receives very little nitrogen fertilizer but the
risk of fertilizing this crop under present conditions of poor water
control may be unacceptably high.
9.        There is a national shortage of fertilizer in India due to the
rapid increase in demand over the last five years, coupled with a slow
growth in domestic production and restrictions on imports, due to India's
chronic balance of payments problem. A recent Bank survey estimates
that India's total suppy in 1973-74 will be about 60% of demand. World
market prices of all the major fertilizers have doubled in the past year,
due to supply shortages and the rising cost of inputs derived from
petroleum. Fertilizers are allocated by the GOI from a central pool, with
irrigated areas receiving larger allocations. Distribution at the retail
level is through cooperatives (para 12), private dealers and Government
shops. Well functioning cooperatives supply their members well with fer-
tilizer. Other farmers must rely on comercial suppliers. In general,
cultivators in the project area who wish to use optimum rates say they can
get about half of what they want. Except in a very few cooperatives, the
cultivator must pay more than the price fixed by the Government to get this
fertilizer.
Seeds
10.       The main source of new seed in the area is the Ummedganj seed
production farm, owned by the Government of Rajasthan (GOR), with the



ANNEX 9
Page 4
National Seed Corporation as a secondary source. There is no large-
scale seed multiplication, storage and *listribution system in the project
area itself. Research stations and farms usually release seed through the
extension service to nearby farmers, who multiply the seed and sell it
to their neighbors. The spread of new varieties or good seed typically
emanates outward from Kota. There is a need for a better organized
system of seed production and distribution, with particular emphasis on
cleaning facilities, quality control and adequate storage. The area
has the advantage of enough dry weather during the year to allow seed
to be easily stored with less deterioration than in more humid climates.
Cultivators have traditicnally replaced their seed with a reasonable
frequency. The availabi'ity of seed has not been a serious problem so
far but sources will be strained as the project area production expands
to the project goals in five to eight years.
Farmers' Organizations
11.       The major farmers' organizations in the project area are Che
cooperatives, the irrigation associations and the village councils
(panchayats). Eachi of these is discussed below:
12.       Coop1erti ves in the project are multi-purpose in nature.  They
accept deposits and offer short and medium-term credit, supply inputs,
hire rmachinery, operate godowns (warehouses) and offer some marketilng
services. For financial purposes, cooperatives are organized in a
hierarchical structure. At the state level, there is a State Cooperative
Bank, in each district a Central Cooperative Bank and for many of th-ie
panchayats (local Government units) there are Primarv Credit Societies.
The credit functions of the cooperatives are summarized in paras 18 to
20 below:.
13.       There are 332 Primary Credit Societies in the Kota District and
139 in the Bundi District. About 36% of farmers in the Kota District
and 397 in Bundi District belong to cooperatives and local officials hope
to increase this participation to 60% over the next five years.
Cooperatives in the project area vary considerably in the strength of their
management and their ability to serve their members.  For some of the
better run cooperatives, loan repayments are reasonably good and records
are wsl1 kept, machinery is available for hiro and fertilizer is dis-
tributed from properly constructed godownis. however, such cooperatives
are in the minority.  In other cases, virtuallv all funds are out on
loan and thie other activities of the cooperative are moribund.
14.       One of the major programs of the cooperatives is in providing
,odowns for the storage of inputs and produce.  In 1973, 70 village godowns
wore completed and another 120 were under construction. More than 20 market
godowns have also been constructed.  Most of the cooperatives have tractors
and trucks for hire to members and 44 small threshers and flour mills have
been installed. The larges.. processing facilities owned by cooperatives are
Llit sugar miill at Keshorainaten and the rice mills at Kota and Bundi (Annex
12). An agro-service center has been established at Kota and five more are
planined.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
15.       In distributing fertilizer, cooperatives bulk the orders of their
members. If the allocation falls short of requirements, the available
fertilizer is pro-rated between the members. Fertilizer sales by
cooperatives in the project area in recent years have been around Rs 16 mil-
lion per year.  Local officials estimate that this could increase bv 30% per
year if supplies were available.
16.       Irrigation Associations cover only 10 to 15% of the project area
(Annex 10) and, being only recently formed, have not yet had a great
impact. The associations are informal groupings of the farmers in each
chak. A spokesman, or mirab, is the point of contact for the irrigation
department and also supervises water distribution and routine maintenance
within the chak.
17.       Panchayats are units of local government, each consisting of
one or more villages, with a total population of about 1,500. While
panchayat councils are democratically elected, they tend to be dominated
by the older, wealthier landowners and are frequently not oriented to
developrient or to the needs of the rural poor. The village level workers
(para 6) are administratively responsible to the panchayats and thus tend
to be politically influenced in distributing inputs and in their other
functions. However, the panchayat leaders do command respect and could
be used as change agents under the project, if properly motivated.
Agricultural Credit
18.       The system of agricultural credit in Rajasthan and in the project
area is described in detail in Reference 2, which also contains financial
statements for the various institutions, Only a brief summary is given
here.  A major share of agricultural credit in India is provided by private
money lenders, w,io charge exorbitant interest rates and often are able to
keep the farmer permanently in debt. Institutional credit is provided by
the cooperative system, the Land Development Banks and increasingly by the
major commercial banks, which were nationalized in 1969 so that they would
provide better service to rural areas.
19.       Cooperative Banks (para 12) extend short and medium-term (up to
five vears) loans. While some funds are provided through share capital
and deposits, the major source of loan funds is the Reserve Bank of
India.  outstanding loans held by the Primary Credit Societies in Bundi
District in 1972 totalled Rs 5.7 milliorn wlhile, in Kota District, the
figure was Rs 29.6 million.  About 55% of these amounts represent over-
du,_s and a collection program has been initiated.
20.       Loans to farmers are given partly in cash and partly in the
fonri of inpits, with ceilings on the various components (Reference 2).
Loans are also limited by the borrowing ceilings of the Primary Credit
Socicties aad the availability of funds from the Central Cooperative
Banks. Societies which are lheavily overdue are not eligible for new
loans.  Fanners pay 10% interest per anruml to the Societies which are re-
financed at 8%.  The State Cooperative Bank lends to the district banks at
just over 6' and borrows from the Reserve Bank of India at 5 to 6%.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
21.       The Central Land Development Bank of Rajasthan supports
three Primary Land Development Banks in the project area. These banks
make long-term loans for land improvement, buildings, machinery anld so on .
Loans to farmers are from five to 15 years maturity and are secured by
mortgages. GOI subsidies are available to small and marginal farmers
taking sucih loans, similar to the provisions of the project for financing
on-farm works (Annex 7). Interest is 9 to 9.5% and the Primary Banks
in turn borrow at 7.5 to 7.75%. The Central Land Development Bank issues
debentures carrying interest at 5.75 to 6.5% wlhich are held mainly by the
Reserve Bank, the State Government and ARC.  In 1973, outstanding Land
Development loans in the Chambal area stood at Rs 15.8 million with over-
dues of Rs 1.3 million.
i 2.       The operations of the commercial banks have been rationalized by
the designation of a "lead bank" in every district. The lead bank in Kota
District is the Central Bank of India aLnd, in Bundi District, the Bank of
Baroda. The lead bank acts as a consortium leader and, after identifying
growth centers and credit gaps, is obliged to involve other banks in
credit development. Interest subsidies from GOI are available to certain
categories of low-income borrowers. The commercial banks have established
jointly the Agricultural Finance Corporation to identify projects, train
personnel, consult and perform other such tasks. The Corporation does not
normally lend directly but has been active in the project area in evaluating
the pilot projects for on-farm development under the UNDP Project (Annex 2)
and arranging credit finance.
23.       3ranches of commercial banks in the project area nrumber 4'3.
These bran:hes had total deposits of Rs 141 million in 1972 and advances
of Rs 96 mLllion, of which only Rs 5 million was for agricultural purposes.
Most agricaltural lending is medium and long-term with security and interest
rates varying from 8.5% to 11%. Loan collection in the rural sector has not
been satisFactory in the past.
II. IMPROTEMENTS NEEDED
Research
24.       The research at Nanta and Digod (para 4), plus some crop pro-
duction studies at Borklera, would be continued and would concentrate on
thie follow?-.ng major items:
(a) Consumptive use of water and irrigation requirements
of various crops;
(b) Crop response to fertilizer and water;
(c)  Varietal selection and testing;
(d) Aquatic weed control in canals and drains;



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(e) Development of irrigation plots for training of
extension staff;
(f)  Reclamatiorn of saline and alkaline soils; and
(g)  Cropping patterns, net returns and farm income studies.
25.       The research program would work in close support of the project
objectives: namely, the elimination of waterlogging and salinity problems,
efficient water use and the maximization of farm income through improved
varieties, agronomic practices and higher-value crops. Annual costs
for research would continue to be financed from the GOI and GOR budgets,
under the auspices of the ICAR. The buildings, equipment and vehicles
needed to improve the scope and effectiveness of the research effort
would be financed under the project and are listed in Annex 5, Table 4.
26.       Provision has also been made in the project for research staff
members to travel to the Philippines, Taiwan, Japan, Thailand and other
nearby countries to review research in those crops related to the project
area. About ten short trips have been provided for. Researchers in the
Chambal area would also maintain contact with regional and national re-
search activitics in their crops. There is a need for the improvement of
the minor crops in the area, principaliy the pulses and legumes.  This
type of researcih cannot be undertaken l.ocally but it should be encouraged
at tlhe national Govornment level with wide dissemination of the results.
Local research workers should cooperate in trials or screening tests
whIenever possible, to get closer contact in this work. Researchers should
be ready to act as lecturers in extension courses (para 29) and host
extension workers and farmers in research farm visits or field days.
Soil Surveys
27.       The soil survey unit should develop deeper core information,
at least Pt a reconnaissance level, in consultation with the irrigation
department, so as to obtain aquifer information for purposes of drainage
planning. The sampling depth for this work should be 3 m instead of the
usual 1.5 in. This would require power augers, which would be available
on loan from the UNDP project team.
Agricultural Extension
28.       To achieve the projected production targets of the project, a
massive extension effort will have to be made. The Project Extension
Service is being set up and a Director, reporting to the Joint Director of
Agriculture for the project (Annex 7), has been selected. The Service would
be responsible for extension work in the project area, would deal with all
technical matters (except for research) and would be responsible for tle
efficient training of the farmers.  nhe Extension Service would consist of
thrce Disrict  ;XtCnsion Officcrs, 15 Agricultural Extension Officers and
120 VLW's (one to 300 farmers).  In addition, there would be eight aubject
-atter spo<.ialists aiL leadquarters and four in each extension cistrict, as



AUNEX 9
Page 8
well as training, publications and administrative units.  All the VLW's would
work solely on extension and would contact the farmers through a "progress-
ive farmer" in each group of 40 farmers. The progressive farmers would
be selected from the better and most trusted farmers in each group and would
work one or two days a week for the extension service and would receive a
small salary.
29.       Extension efforts would be concentrated initially on tile major
crops, with special emphasis on improvements not requiring cash outlays from
the farmers. Training and refresher courses are being arranged for each level
of extension worker, including the progressive farmers. The extension pro-
gram would be continuously evaluated and programs would be updated to meet the
changing needs of the project area farmers.
30.       Provision has been made in the project for the necessary vehicles
and equipment for the extension service (Annex 5, Table 4) and for operating
costs during project implementation (Annex 4, Table 5). Full details of the
proposed improvements in agricultural extension, including staffing, methods,
straining courses and evaluation, are given in Reference 3.
Fertilizers
31.       As3uming no shortages of supply and a dynamic extension service,
fertilizer u.e in the project area would increase considerably over the
development -,eriod of the project.  The greatest increase would be in
nitrogenous Eertilizers, such as urea, which is used on the major crops, rice,
wheat and suzarcane. A more modest increase would be for diammonium phosphate
'which is ideil for supplying the phosphate needs of rice, wheat, sugarcane,
jowar, maize and a few other non-legumes, without including too much higher-
cost nitrogei.  Diammonium phosphate is also an ideal formulation for the
leguminous c!'ops, which need only a small amount of nitrogen but generous
amounts of phosphate. Potash is recommended in the project area only for
sugarcane and vegetables. Research in the future could pin-point the soil
and crop combinations requiring potash and the economic returns to its use
but this is ;aot urgentlv needed.
32.       Under present scarcity conditions, the excessive price the farmer
usually must nay and the slowness in delivery increases his production costs,
redutces the amount used, and interferes with the timeliness of application,
thus reducing returns from fertilizer use.  If the prices of farm crops in-
crease in proportion to recent world-wide fertilizer cost increases and the
distribution system is improved under the project, cultivators in the project
area are expected to use recommended rates, at least on their high-yielding
varieties. As shortages of fertilizer could have very serious effects on
the viahility of Area A, where the soil fertility must be restored after
land-shaping operations and the farmer must assume a heavy debt obligation,
supplemental fertilizer supplies have been included in the project (for
Area A only). In calculating the amounts required (Table 1), it has been
assumed that supplies should be guaranteed for three years after on-farm
developnent and that allocations without the project would average 33%' of
requirements. The following supplemental tonnages (nutrient terms) would



ANNEX 9
Page 9
be required:  N - 8,840 ton; P 05 - 5,930 ton; K20 - 200 ton.  The cost of
these fertilizers has been estimated at Rs 51.3 million, f.o.r. Kota, based
on prices discussed in Annex 12.
33.       The full project supplementary fertilizer requirements would be
procured by COI early in the project implementation period and added to tlle
central pool. Annual allocations would be made to GOR based1 on the amount
of on-farm development in Area A previously complete(l.  This allocation
would be additional to the regular Rlajas;than share of t',e fcrtilizer pool
and would, over not more thani eipht years, allocate to COR the total amount
procured under the project.
34.       Fertilizers allocated to GOR tnder this project anid the Rajasthan
Canal CAD Project would he allotted to the Rajasthan Agro-Industries Corpora-
tion or the Pajnsthan Cooperativo !larketing Federation, whiclh would act as
the agents of GOR and would Ibe controlled by a Steering Cormmlittee.  The
committee wouldl allocate fertilizers to the project areas, fix retail
prices to the farmers and determine retail outlets and trading margins.
The Area Development Commissioner, ill consultation witlh the Lxtension
Director, would determine the retail out:lets in the project area.  Ihese
otitlets would be Villagc Cooperative Soctetiias, Marketing Societies,
Consuumer Cooperatives, Panchaaynt Committces, Agro-Industry Centers or
fertilizer dealers.
35.       All retail outlets would sell fertilizers to project farmers only
against vouchers signed by the VLW's (para 36).  All fertilizer supplies
drawn by these retailers from the Agro-Industrics Corporation or the Co-
operative -arketing Federation would require these vouchers to indicate
that the allocation had been sold to eligible project farmers in the
quantities indicated on the voucher and as certified by the VLW's. For
the first year's allocation, no vouchers would be available and the
quantities would be sold in trust to the retailers until the end of the
growqing season.
36.       Each project farmer in Area A, on signing the loan application
for his on-farm development loan, would be issued with a booklet printed by
the CA  entitling him to supplementary fertilizer for the following three
years. The booklet would contain detachable vouchers for each crop season
on which the VLW would certify:
(a) Fertilizer requirements for the next crop season: and
(b)  Actual fertilizer use for the previous crop season as determined
by the VLW.
This certification would be required from the second crop season onwards and
would ensure that fertilizers drawn from the retailers had indeed been used
on the farm in the Drevious crop season and not resold by the farmers.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
37.       The vouchers duly signed and stamped by the VLW would be signed
by the farmer in the presence of the dealer when the purchase is effected
and would serve as documentation for the dealer that the fertilizer had
been sold to eligible project area farmers. Fertilizer would be sold to
the farmers for cash or credit, as is done at present.
Seeds
38.       At full project development, the annual requirements for new
seed, in the major crops, would be as follows: wheat - 2,200 ton;
sorghum - 280 ton; and paddy - 180 ton. The production of foundation
seed for new varieties of the major crops, at the Ummedganj Seed Farm
and elsewhere, is not expected to be a problem. However, there is a need
for a system to increase the availability of seeds to the farmer. There
is also a need for seed improvement in many of the minor crops, such as
pulses, legumes and coriander, which get very little attention at present.
Potato and vegetable growers need a source of disease-free seed.
39.       An improved seed production processing and distribution system
would be needed to meet in an optimum manner the requirements of the project
area at full development. The present cleaning equipment, storage and farm
machinerv at Unmedganj should be cleaned up and repaired and more equipment
should be installed for growing, cleaning and storing the increased seed
volume, as the farm is not being fully utilized at present. Additional
seed farms rnear Sultanpur and in the Bundi District would be needed to in-
crease the volume of seed available and to reduce distribution problems.
There is therefore a need for a seed multiplication project to benefit the
area but the Chambal project area alone would not be large enough to support
a full-scale project.  GOR lhas recognizeJ t'is need and, hias proposed a
lajasthan state-wide seeds project for future IDA consideration.  Discuss-
ion between COR and IDA arc continuing on the possible form and scope of
such project.  Should a seeds project be inplemented, it would enhance the
econoiiiic rate of return of the project but these improvements have not been
assumed in the present calculation of project yields and benefits.
Farr.iers' Crganizatioas
4O.        CLoperativces - The Comiand Area Authority would have a Joint
Registrar of Cooperatives reporting to the Area Development Commissioner
(ClIart 9600).  Besides his regulatory and adrninistrative tasks, he would be
rcsnonsible for strengthening cooperative management, expanding Laembership
and improving the financial viability of the cooperatives in the project
area.  A small, but bighly motivated, staff would be required, some of whom
wouild be available to serve as cooperative managers on secondment.  The use
oE seconded managers would be especially important for the cooperatives oper-
ating large comlercial undertakings such as sugar mills.  The success of the
cooperative movement Is closely bound up with the degree of service rendered
and the availability of suitable persons to render such services. This is
true for the administrators of the program but especially so for the managers
of the local cooperatives and trained and capable people for these positions



ANNEX 9
Page 11
are badly needed. The proposed project extension service could be of great
assistance to the cooperatives, especially in the development and expansion
stages. The successful cooperatives should be used as models and examples
for the promotion of new management ideas and methods.
41.       Irrigation Associations - would be set up throughout the project
area in the first two years of project implementation and simple equipment
such as clocks, watches and bicycles would be provided (Annex 5). The
irrigation staff would be responsible for setting up and strengthening the
irrigation associations. Although primarily responsible for operation and
maintenance of the irrigation, drainage and road systems within the chak,
the associations could usefully serve several other purposes, for example,
as a point of contact for the extension service, or for communal ownership
of farm equipment.
42.       Panchayats - Convincing farmers of the benefits of on-farm
development (Annex 7) would be much easier if the revenue officials were
to work closely with the panchayat leadership. Cooperation would also be
needed in resolving disputes over the standards of completed work. The
system of distributing fertilizer (para 36) has been designed so that the
panchayat leaders would not be involved in the distribution process.
Agricultural Credit
43.       Arrangements for financing on-farm development works through
credit are described in Annexes 7 and 8. Production and other credit needs
would be met through the existing institutional and private sources but
cooperatives and the commercial banks would tend to play a greater role
than at presitnt. 1With the strengthening of the cooperative system envisaged
under the project (para 40), cooperatives would be in a position to supply
about 20% of the short and medium-term credit needs of the project area
farmers. However, statutory ceilings on cooperative borrowing may prevent
further expansion. The role of Land Development Banks would not increase
as a result of the project but they would continue to supply longer-term
funds for capital irprovenients.
44.       A major expansion of the role of the commercial banks in short-
term production credit is envisaged. About 70% of the farmers in Area A
would be receiving long-term land development loans from the banks which
would be secured by mortgages over thleir whole property. The value of the
land mortgaged would generally exceed by a substantial margin the value of
the loan and this excess of 'creditworthiness;' would be shown on an 'agri-
card' which would be hlonored by the issuing bank for production credit.
However, the farmer would not be obliged to use this credit source. The
staff of the commercial banks would require additional training for this
expansion in activity, and such training would be available from the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (para 22).
45.       Production credit requirements for the whole project area aL
full project development have been estimated at Rs 150 millioni per year,
based on an .ssurmption that 80% of physical inputs would be purchased on credit.



AliNEX 9
Table 1
IND1A
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELCPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Fertilizer Requirements - Area A
Cropping Pattern-/   Nitrogen-2   Phosphorous3/  Potassium-/
Crop               (ha)  (X)           kg/ha   kg    kg/ha    kg    kg/ha  kg
KHARIF - Irrigated
Paddy                          6.8      13.6      131    18        54       7      -    -
Sorghum                        3.1       6.2        88     5       44      3       -    -
Maize                          0.9       1.8       105     2       53       1      -    -
Pulses                         4.2       8.4        13     1       52      4       -    -
Oilseeds                       1.5       3.0       44      1       30      1       -    -
Groundnut                      1.2       2.4        13    __       52       1      -    -
Sugarcane                      1.4       2.8      125      4       58      2      50  1.4
KHARIF - Non Irrigated
Sorghum                        3.1       6.2       42      3       20      1       -
Maize                          0.1       0.2        35    --       18      --
Pulses                         0.8       1.6         9    --       23     __
Oilseeds                       1.6       3.2       16      1       11     --
RAI - Irrigated
Wheat (full)                  17.5      35.0       107    37       53      19      -    -
Wheat (supplemental)           4.2       8.4        75     6       47       4      -    -
Gram                           3.6       7.2        13     1       52      4       -    -
Oilseeds                       3.0       6.0        70     4       44       3      -    -
Pulses                         4.4       8.8        13     1       52       5      -    -
Potatoes                       0.6       1.2      101      1       67      1      50  0.6
Coriander                      1.0       2.0        76     2       48      1       -    -
Fodder                         0.4       0.8        13    --       52     --       -    -
RABI - Non Irrigated
Wheat                          1.3       2.6        30     1       15      --      -    -
Gram                           1.0       2.0         8    --       32      1       -    -
Pulses                         0.9       1.8         7    __       28      1       _    _
Coriander                      0.5       1.0       33    --        17     --       -    -
Total                   63.1    126.2                88              59          2.0
Fertilizer requirement on 50,000 ha for three
years (nutrient ton)                                  13,200           8,850        300
Present allocation5/                                      4,360           2,920        100
Supplementary requirement (ton)                  8,840            5,930        200
Price, f.o.r. Kota (Rs/ton)-                              3,600           3,200      2,300
Cost (Rs Million)                                            31.8             19.0        0.5
Total Cost:                                              Rs  51.3 million
or
US$ 6.4 million
1/ To simplify the calculation, the projected cropping pattern for Year 4 is used, as
approximately half the on-farm works would have been completed at that stage.
2/ kg N.
3/ kg P205.
4/  kg K20.
5/  Assumed that 33% of requirements would be available without project.
6/ Prices are discussed in Annex 12.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1
INDIA
GXAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Operation and Maintenance
Existing Situation
1.        Operation and maintenance of the irrigation system  is at present
the responsibility of the Irrigation Department, Chambal Canal Circle,
headed by a Superintending Engineer. Operation and maintenance (O & M) is
funded by annual budgetary appropriations, which are not linked to col-
lections of water rates.  Madhya Pradesh contributes 50% of the cost of 0 & M
for the Kota Barrage and 75% for the RMC and the present standard of 0 & M
for these components is very satisfactory. However, for the distribution
canal system, operation is hampered by design inadequacies, which would be
removed under the project (Annex 2), and maintenance is not satisfactory,
due to a shortage of funds and a lack of vehicles for the supervisory
staff. Maintenance deficiencies are exemplified by the heavy Typha growth
in some of the minor canals, scour downstream of drop structures and the
impassibility of some service roads, especially in the wet season. No
funds at all have been made available for the maintenance of the small
amount of existing drainage, with the result that many of these drains,
though only a few years old, are almost useless.
2.        Maintenance of the road system  is the responsibility of the
Rajastlhan Public Works Department (PWD) but maintenance is hampered by a
lack of tools and equipment and a shortage of funds. Under present
drainage conditions, roads are generally waterlogged throughout the kharif
and are considerably damaged by heavy traffic each year. Repair of this
damage usually takes several months. Actual expenditure for the Kota and
Bundi Districts in 1972/73 was about Rs 2,800/km.
Irrigation and Drainage Systems
3.         The 0 & M of the irrigation systems, down to the chak outlet, and
the main drainage system, as so defined, would continue to be the responsi-
bility of the Irrigation Department staff, as part of the Command Area
Autlhority.  The proposed organizational arrangements are described in Annex 7.
Vehicles and equipment to be procured under the project (Annex 5) wouild
be sufficient to meet the needs of both construction and 0 & I'.  Con-
struction efluipment would be used for 0 & M after project completion.
4.        The cost of operating and maintaining the irrigation systetn
to satisfaci;ory standards has been estitnated at Rs 32 (US$4.00) per ha,
in late-197:3 currency values. The cost of maintaining the drainage- system has
been estimated at another Rs 32/ha. It is recognized that the latter figure is



ANNEX 10
Page 2
rather high but it is considered realistic in view of the prolific weed
growth to be expected and the importance of first-class maintenance,
especially in the wet season. Various low-maintenance alternatives exist,
notably, lining the drains with katlar stone slabs, but these all imply
higher capital costs, which GOR can ill afford. On the other hand,
maintenance of the proposed unlined drains would be highly labor-intensive
and would provide a good opportunity for employment creation. Drainage
maintenance would consist of two weed cuttings per year, with removal
of weed roots and silt once a year. The latter operation would be assisted
by machinery for the larger drains. The cost of 0 & M for the irrigation
and drainage systems during project implementation would be included in
the project (Annex 4). The project also provides for a one-time catch-up
effort to remedy past maintenance deficiencies (para 1), to be carried
out in the first year of project implementation. The cost would be about
Rs 3 million (Annex 4, Table 5).
On-Farm Works
S.        0 & M of the watercourses, drains and roads within the chak would
be the responsibility of farmers concerned, organized into irrigation
associations for each chak. Under the warabandi system, a strict rotational
irrigation schedule would be drawn up to allocate water to each holding
according to its size. Water deliveries would be controlled by the mirabs
or common irrigators, elected by the farmers of the chak. Normally,
each farmer would be responsible for maintaining the project works abut-
ting his property, with common features being maintained by cooperative
effort. Project staff would demonstrate to the farmers appropriate
maintenance techniques, particularly on how to prevent seepage from unlined
watercourses.
6.        The irrigation patwari (ditch rider) would supervise the per-
formance of the irrigation association and would report any operation and
maintenance deficiencies to the assistant engineer. The latter has been
dQiegaLed magisterial powers and is able to fine or even jail offending
irrigators, if tlie deficiencies found are not rectified within a specified
time. Generally, compliance can be achieved by persuasion but fining
has been used in some cases. As the warabandi system was only introduced
in 1972, It only covers 10-15% of the chaks at present. However, under
the project, warabandi would be introduced throughout the project area
by June 1975, though it would not become fully effective until the project
works had been completed and full water control had become possible.
7.        The irrigation staff would assist in setting up irrigation asso-
ciations, with assistance from the other CAA departments concerned.
Rotational schedules would be determined in consultation with the extension
staff, on a monthly basis.  The CAM  wotld advise the irrigation associations
on 0 & M problems but would not finance 0 & M within the chak, except in
exceptional cases, such as natural disasters.



ANNEX 'I 0
Page 3
8.        Most of the funds for introducing and enforcing the warabandi
system would come from the 0 & M budget (para 4). Additional expenditure
for bicycles and wrist watches for the patwaris and clocks for the mirabs
(so as to allow them to operate the rotational schedules) would be provided
for under the project (Annex 5).
Roads
9.        Road maintenance would continue to be the responsibility of the
PWD. Maintenance expenditure has been calculated on the basis of resealing
every 5 years, patching at 7% per annum, and annual maintenance of shoulders,
drains and structures. The cost in 1974 currency values, would average
Rs 5,300/km, or Rs 2.0 million per annum from 1987 onwards for the roads
constructed under the project. Equipment provided under the project would
be used for maintenance, after the completion of construction.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Agricultural Production
1.        This Annex discusses some of the more important agricultural
factors which affect the outlook for higher production and increased farm
income due t:o the improvement of irrigation and drainage under the project.
Projected cropping patterns, yields and production for future conditions,
with and without the project, are also given (Tables 1 to 4).
2.        Prior to the advent of irrigation in the Chambal command area,
crops were rainfed and largely brought to maturity on stored soil moisture.
Even with irrigation, the area still retains many of the characteristics
of rainfed agriculture. The transformation from rainfed to irrigated
agriculture by the farming community has been generally slow but has been
more rapid near Kota and along the main canals. Areas farther out have
been slower in adapting to irrigated conditions, partly because they do
not get a reliable supply of water.
Present Cropping Pattern
3.        The present cropping pattern (Tables 1 to 4) has been estimated
from the records kept by the Revenue Department of Rajasthan and little
variation between areas A, B and C has been assumed. Individual farms
normally grow a mixture of crops and each field usually follows a crop-
fallow seasonal rotation. This is caused by the inability of the farmers,
under present conditions, to harvest the kharif crop in time for sowing
a rabi crop on the same land, the practice of using fallow land in the
kharif to conserve moisture, and the fact that the amount of irrigation
water received is not sufficient to irrilgate the entire holding. At
present, about 65% of the command area is cropped in the rabi season and
22% in the kharif.
4.        The dominant crop in kharif is sorghum (jowar) which is hardly
ever irrigated and receives very little fertilizer. Yields of the local
varieties are low and a part of the crop is cut for fodder. Hybrid
varieties could out-produce local sorghuTn, but present hybrids would need
further adaptation to local conditions and improvement in their resistance
to pests and diseases before they could be recommended. It is expected
that ongoing research and plant breeding would correct these deficiencies
over time. Maize is also grown to a small extent under similar conditions
to sorghum.
5.        Paddy, another kharif crop, is relatively new to the command
area, having been introduced in the last six to seven years. The spread



ANNEX 1 1
Page   2
of paddy cultivation has been mainly outwards from Kota and the experiment
stations, with very little cultivation to date in the outer areas. Eighty
to ninety percent of the cultivated paddy varieties are of the new high-
yielding types but some local varieties are grown for their better eating
quality and higher price, although yields are much lower. Both paddy and
sorghum are planted later than would be optimum for the best yields. This
also causes a late harvest in November or December which pre-empts or delays
any succeeding rabi planting. Farmers use moderately high rates of nitrogen
application on paddy, reaching 60-70% of the officially recommended appli-
cation. Farmers are aware of the potential of high rates of nitrogen with
the hlgh-yielding varieties but rarely can procure adequate amounts of
fertilizers (Annex 9). Some farmers have yields in the vicinity of 4-5
ton/ha, but the area average is much lower, about 2 ton/ha.
6.        Groundnuts, also a kharif crop, are grown to a limited extent and
with low yields, averaging 0.5 ton/ha. The price of groundnuts is presently
attractive but high yields with this crop are difficult to achieve on the
heavy soils of the Chambal area. In addition, the harvesting of groundnuts
requires a large amount of labor, competing with labor demands for harvesting
paddy and sorghum.
7.        Kharif pulses occupy about 3% of the kharif crop area and yields
are low at 0.4 ton/ha. The kharif pulses; include pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan),
black gram (Phaseolus mungo) and green gram (Phaseolus aureus). Soybean
(Glycine max. L) cultivation is being introduced under a recent development
scheme on a limited area and shows promise of being a useful crop. Yields
of pulses are low. mainly due to the use of low-yielding genetic and seed
material.  ND immediate improvement from ongoing pulses research and breeding
activities can be expected.
8.        Susarcane is concentrated near the sugar mill at Keshoraipaten but
small plantings are scattered through the project area. This crop is at
present poorly fertilized and yields of cane do not exceed 35 to 40 ton/ha.
Yields could easily be doubled with adequate fertilizer applications and the
use of insecticides. Sugarcane is grown on a twelve-month cycle without
ratooning. As the plots are small, new land is used each year.
9.        The cropping intensity in the kharif is low at 227, with only 9% of
the kharif crop being irrigated. The low cropping intensity in kharif may
be due to the limited number of high-yielding crops which can be successfully
grown in the short, intense wet season. Except for paddy, which is a recent
introduction, these crops are not particularly profitable and farmers have
traditionally preferred to use the kharif rainfall to replenish the soil
moisture, by bunding the fields, so as to allow crops such as wheat to be
grown in the rabi. Under present conditions, the irrigation system is closed
down for maintenance at that time so that the farmer cannot make a pre-monsoon
irrigation to irrigate his land. Due to the heavy nature of the soils, the
farmer is therefore obliged to wait for the arrival of the monsoon and a
first wetting of the soil before he can start cultivating. Moreover, the
arrival of the monsoon often allows only a minimal time to plant before surface
flooding occurs. This combination of circumstances tends to reduce the kharif



ANNEX 11
Page   3
cropping intensity. In August and September, crops other than paddy can
be grown without irrlgation, except in dry years. As the farmer pays water
charges only if he actually uses water, he tends not to use irrigation in
the kharif unless the season is unusually dry. Proposals for improving kharif
cropping and irrigation intensity are discussed in para 18.
10.       Rabi cropping is dominated by wheat.  Following the national strategy
for increased food grain production, farmers have been encouraged to use the
improved varieties of wheat (Mexican types), and about 70% of the irrigated
wheat is of the high-yielding type. As with paddy, farmers are not able to
obtain high yields for their wheat because of the difficulties of obtaining
fertilizer, but they do tend to use as much fertilizer as they can procure.
Wheat yields at present are about 1.2 ton/ha under irrigation but could reach
3-4 ton/ha with better water control and greater use of high-yielding varieties
and nitrogen fertilizer.
11.       Rabi pulses (mainly lentils) occupy 15% of the area during the rabi
season and, even under irrigation, present yields are low at 0.4 to 0.6 ton/ha.
Due to variety constraints, it would be difficult to increase the yields of
these rabi pulses. Under the project, it is expected that cultivation would
shift more towards gram (Phaseolus sp.), which covers only 32 of the area now
and which has a better yield potential.
12.       Rabi oilseeds (mainly rape and mustard) comprise about 0.25% of the
cultivated area and yields are low at 0.6 ton/ha. Proposals are for an
increased area of these crops and improved yields, as a result of the project.
About 3.5% of the area is presently growing condiments, primarily coriander,
part of which is irrigated. Coriander is a good cash crop with usually attrac-
tive farm prices, even though its yield potential is not great. Yield levels
at present are 0.7 ton/ha under irrigation and 0.4 ton/ha unirrigated.
13.       Fodder, mainly berseem (Trifolium alexandrium) and lucerne (Medicago
spp.), is grown under irrigation on about 0.5% of the area for feeding to
livestock. Yields (from up to 10 cuttings per crop) are presently 40 ton/ha,
which is fairly good. Once established, the fodder crops are cut about every
three weeks, during the good growing weather.
14.       Improved drainage, reclamation of water logged areas and a greater
availability of water when needed as a result of the project would improve all
irrigated production in the rabi season. Wheat would be especially benefitted
from this since, under present conditions, the irrigation water is often not
available at the critical growing stages, resulting in yield losses.
Projected Cropping Pattern
15.       The projected cropping pattern at full development of the project
(Figures 1 and 2) would reach in Area A an intensity of about 150% with an irrigation
intensity of about 135%. Seventy percent of the cropning would be in kharif
and 80% in rabi. The majority of the irrigation (75% out of 135%) would be
in rabi. In Areas B and C, irrigation efficiencies and the degree of water
control would be lower, and thus the cropping intensity (Tables 2 and 3) at
full development would be correspondingly lower.



ANNEX I 1
Page   4
16.       The greatest increase in irrigation from the present to the projected
future cropping pattern would be in the kharif season, due to the proposed
irrigation of fields prior to crop cultivation and the onset of the monsoon
rains. Pre-irrigating and getting kharif crops well established before the
monsoon would have several benefits. One is that the crops would be more
advanced by the time monsoon rains cause surface flooding or soil saturation,
which would enable kharif crops to withstand this adversity better than with
later planting. The other benefit is that, by planting earlier, the harvest
would also be earlier allowing more time:ly planting of the following rabi
crops. In addition, research results shyw that earlier planting gives better
yields. Pre-irrigating the kharif crops during the May 7 to July 1 period
would call for main canal closures to be advanced from the present May-June
period to April 15 to May 7. Pulse yields could be increased in the kharif
by "bedding up" or putting the rows on ridges, to provide drainage for the root
systems during the monsoon and facilitate any needed irrigation later. It is
realized that this could probably only be done where tractors are available
and that, in a heavier than normal monsoon, the ridges may melt down.
17.       The proposed higher cropping intensity would be possible because
of the more reliable and greater water supply under the project and the
benefits of the warabandi system (Annex 10). Moreover, land leveling and
shaping would improve water utilization -and crop yields would increase due
to a more efficient application of water. These improvements would contri-
bute to the 'projected higher cropping int:ensity and yields under the project.
18.       For better utilization of the aEvailable water and to obtain maximum
crop production during the rabi, it is proposed that 14% of the wheat area
would get supplemental irrigation only: that is, three to four irrigations
per crop season instead of six to seven tnder full irrigation. Following
a pre-sowing irrigation, the supplemental irrigations would be timed during
the "jointing" 1/ to "milk" stage 2/ of growth to prevent moisture stress
during these critical development periods. Much of the wheat at present is
only supplementally irrigated whenever the farmers can get water.
19.       Other shifts from the present to the proposed cropping pattern would
increase the area of irrigated sorghum, maize, oilseeds and gram. Irrigation,
especially as it permits the early planting of kharif crops, is expected to
increase vieLds considerably. The advancement of kharif harvest dates would
facilitate earlier cultivation of the rabi crops essential for the achievement
of the proposed cropping pattern.
20.       Figure 1 is the proposed cropping calendar and Figure 2 contains a
plan for crop rotation in order to reach a cropping intensity of 150% under
the project at full development. Most of the paddy would be followed by
fallow and 70% of the wheat would be on land that was fallowed in kharif. All
supplementally irrigated wheat would be on such land so as to take maximum
advantage of the residual moisture.
1/   Period of development of internodes of the wheat stem.
'/ Beginning stage of grain formation.



ANNEX 11
Page   5
Present and Projected Yields
21.       The present yields obtained by farmers and the projected yields
of full development of the project are presented in Tables 1 to 3. Esti-
mates of present yields are based on Department of Agriculture statistics,
sample surveys and field observations duting appraisal. Projected yields
at full project development are based on levels already obtained in the
project area by the more progressive farmers and on average levels achieved
under similar conditions elsewhere. The future yields assume a vigorous
extension service and foreseeable availability of inputs (para 22).
Fertilizers
22.       Use of fertilizer is already a well established practice on high
income crops. However, farmers invariab:Ly complain of the shortage of fertil-
izer and lateness of delivery. It will be impossible to achieve projected
yields if fertilizers are not available in the recommended amounts and on
time.  The attainment of projected yields under the project would require the
equivalent of about 13,500 tons of urea, 20,000 tons of superphosphate, and
300 tons of muriate of potash per year for area A at full project development.
Recommendations made by local agronomists following experimental work and
farm observiations have been used as a basis for determining rates of fertil-
izer application to reach project yield goals. It has been assumed that the
rates of fertilizer application would parallel yield increases and the expansion
of cropped areas. Projected application rates and the quantities reached to
ensure a three-year supply to all parts of Area A, as they are developed, are
shown in Annex 9, Table 1.
Plant Protection
23.       The major pests and diseases of the proposed crops in the area are
well understood and control measures, where feasible, have been deternined by
the plant protection services of the GOR. At present, few farmers use the
recommended plant protection methods to the optimum extent. Therefore, advising
farmers on correct measures to be adopted, and particularly on the timing of
control by Insect population or disease level, would be important functions
of the proposed project extension service. Where several applications are
recommended for a given crop, they should not be applied automatically or in
a preventive way but rather when needed according to pest population and
economic damage levels. Experience in other parts of the world has shown that
spray schedules for pest control can get out of hand and quickly become over-
frequent and unnecessarily expensive unless carefully controlled uy competent
technicians. This can have a damaging crop environmental effect through the
loss of beneficial insects and create a more difficult control situation.
24.       Plant protection activities to be introduced by the project extension
service wouldl include: encouraging farmers to plant varieties resistant to
disease or pests; to promote the use of disease and pest free seed; and, to
carry out crop sanitation measures, such as crop residue removal, to prevent
pest control problems.



ANNEX 11
Page   6
Projected Rite of Agricultural Development
25.       Ftll development of the croppir.g pattern with higher yields would
be attained in year 9 and would be realized through the benefits from:
(a) In.provements in infrastructure within the project
aiea (Annex 2);
(b) Or-farm development (Annex 2);
(c) Ir.provements in the supply and use of inputs;
(d) Uee of improved varieties, particularly for the
Tn,jor crops;
(e) E)pansion of the warabandi system (Annex 10); and
(f) oxganization of a strong and active extension service
(tnnex 9).
26.      nTe rate of agricultural development is expected to be faster near
Kota and the towns in the area, as well as along the main canals, while
development in the more distant areas would he slower. The assumed rate of
development for the whole area has been lbased on combinations of expected
infrastructtral improvements (Chart 8598), their expected rates of accomplish-
ment for Areas A, B and C, the expected ability of cultivators to adopt
expected agiicultural improvements and the availability and use of inputs.
The attainmEnt of full development has been projected as follows:
Project Year:                   1   2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9
Increase in cropped area
or yield as percentage
of full development          0   7   18   35   58   75   88   96   100
Constraints on Development
27.       Possible constraints on development include shortages of inputs,
including labor and animal power, and inadequate transport and marketing
facilities. The availability of fertilizer, seeds and production credit
are discussed in Annex 9 and labor supply is analyzed in Annex 14. The
transport system is discussed in Annex 2, while marketing, storage and
processing problems are treated in Annex 13. The need for animal power
would increase roughly in proportion to cropped area and such an increase
would be possible without the importation of large numbers of animals.
Fodder, shown as part of the cropping pattern in Tables 1 to 4, is not
evaluated as a project benefit as it would be used to feed farm animals.
The services of such animals are therefore not shown as a production cost.
Projected cc.nditions have not assumed any major increase in mechanization
above the present low level.



L.,, J 1.
CliAIIMBAIJ IYINMA'  A8l.A IJ ..J.I 0lFI '-I P1ROJECI (RAJAST1IA10
A6ricultural Prodl,cI i-jo - Area A (50,000 ha)
Present                                        Puture - Without Project                                euLure - With Project
Area     Yield    Production   Net Value of           Area      Yield    Production   Net Value (If          Area      Yield    Production   Net Value of
Crop                        IO0) ha   ton/ha    '00 ton        Produection       '0r)0 ha   ton/ha     '000 ton      Production         '000 ha   ton /ha    '000 ton       Production
--Rs '000---                                          --Rs '000---                                           --Rs '000---
K H A R I F - Irrigated
Paddy                                       2.0       2.1         4.2           2,480              3.6       2,8       10.1            5,680            10.0        4.0       40.0           21,400
Sorghum and Maize                           0.2       0.7         0.1              60             1.0       0.9         0.8              160             6.5       1.8        11.5            2,820
Pulses                                      1.4       0.4         0.6             480              1.0      0.5          0.5             410             6.0       0.8          4.8           1,490
Oilseeds and Groundnut                      0.7       0.8         0.6             610              3.6       0.8       10.1              930              4.0      1.6          6.5           8,750
Sugarcane                                   0.4      41.5        16.6           1,500              0.5      55.0       27.5            2,460             2.0       80.0      160,0           13,060
K H A R I F - Non Irrigated
Sorghum and Maize                           6.0       0.5         3.0           1,170             7.2       0.6         4.3            1,110             2.5       1.0          2.5             410
Pulses                                      0.4       0.4         0.2             140              0.5       0.6         0.3             270              1.0       0.6         0.6             390
Oilseeds                                    0.1       0.7         0.1             120              0.5       0.9         0.5             780              2.5       0.9         2.3           3,480
Sub-Total                          11.2                                 6,560             17.9                                11,800             34.5                                51,800
Cropping Intensity- 7,             22                                                     36                                                     69
R A B I - Irrigated
Wheat (full irrigation)                                                                                                                                  15.0       3.7        55.5          38,880
Wheat (supplemental irrigation)             21.4      1.2        25.7          14,360             21.4       1.4        30.0          12,970              7.0       2.3        16.1           8,340
Gram, Oilseeds and Pulses                   7.5       0.6         4.5           4,180             10.0       0.8         8.0           7,440             13.5       1.4        18.9          15,440
Potatoes                                    0,1       6.2         0.6             100              0.2       8.0         1.6             300              1.0      18.0        18.0           5,920
Coriander                                   1.0       0.7         0,7           1,120              1.0       0.8         0.8           1,220              1.0       0.9         0.9           1,030
Fodder2/                                    0.3                                                    0.4                                                    0.5
R A B I - Non Irrigated
Wheat                                        2.0      0.8         1.6            1,140             2.4       0.9         2.2           1,420
Gram and Pulses                              1.6      0.7         1.1              680             1.9       0.7         1.3              750             1.5       0.7         0.9              560
Coriander                                   0.7       0.4         0.3             440              0.7       0.4         0.3             380
Sub-Total                           34.6                                22,020            38.0                                 24,480            39.5                                 70,170
Cropping Intensity - %             69                                                     76                                                     79
Total                          45.E                                28,580             55.9                                36,280             74.0                                121,970
Cropping Intensity - 7O             92                                                   112                                                    148
Irrigated Cropping Intensity - 7 70                                                       85                                                    133
1/  For groups of two or more crops, yields shown are weighted averages,
2/  As fodder is used for farm animal consumption, production is not evaluated.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMIAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PAJASTHAN)
1/
Agricultural Production - Area B (117,000 ha)
Present                                        Future - Without Project                                 Future - With Proiect
Area     Yield    Production   Net Value of            Area      Yield    Production   Net Value of            Area      Yield    Production   Net Value of
Crop                       '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton        Production         '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton        Production          '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton        Production
--Rs '000---                                           --Rs '000---                                            --Rs '000---
K H A R I F  -  Irrigated
Paddy                                        3.5       2.0         7.0            4,280             5.9       2.6         15.3           9,160              8.2       3,2        26.2           15,570
Sorghum and Maize                            0.7       0.7         0.5              160             2.4       0.8          1.9             560              4.6       1.1          5.1           1,130
Pulses                                       3.5       0.4         1.4            1,220             2,3       0.5          1.2             980              3.5       0.6         2.1            1,550
Oilseeds and Groundnut                       1.8       0.7         1,3            1,300              1.8      1.0          1.8           2,030              2,3       1.4          3.2           3,740
Sugarcane                                    0.9      41.0        36,8            3,140             1.2      50.0        60.0            5,530              1.2      65.0        78.0            6,490
K H A R I F - Non Irrigated
Sorghum and Maize                           14.4       0.5         7.2            3,310            14.7       0.6          8.8           2,860             15.8       0.8         12.6           3,160
Pulses                                       0.9       0.4         0.4              330              1.2      0.5          0.6              510             1.2       0.5          0.6             430
Oilseeds                                     0.4       0.7         0.3              500              1,2      0.8          1.0           1,650              1.2       0.8          1.0           1,570
Sub-Total                           26.1                                 14,240             30.7                                23,280              38.0                                33,640
Cropping Intensity - %              22                                                      26                                                      32
R A B I - Irrigated
Wheat                                       46.8       1.2        56.2           34,300             46.8       1.5        70.2           38,330             52.7       2.2       115.9           69.040
Gran,, Oilseeds and Pulses                  18.3       0.6        11.0           10,520             19.0       0.7        13.8           11,830             19.9       1.0        19.9           15,630
Potatoes                                     0.1       6.0         0.6               90              0.4       8.0         3.2              640              0.6      13.0         7.8            2,020
CoriandSr                                    2.3       0.7          1.6           2,570              2.3       0.8         1.8            2,870              2.3       0.8         1.8            2,710
Fodderj2                                     0.6        .            .             .                 0.8        .           .              .                 0.9
R A B I - Non Irrigated
Wheat                                        4.9       0.8          3.9           2,800              7.0       0.8         5.6            3,860              4.7       0.9         4.2            2,720
Gram and Pulses                              3.9       0.7          2.7           3,400              4.7       0.8         3.8            2,620              4.1       0.7         2.9            1,500
Coriander                                    1.8       0.4          0.7           1,140              1.8       0.4         0.7            1,810              2.3       0.6         1.4            2,010
Sub-Total                           78.7                                 54,820             82.8                                 61,960             87.5                                 95,630
Cropping Intensity - 70             67                                                      71                                                      75
Total                          104.8                                 69,060            113.5                                 85.24D            125.5                                129,270
Cropping Intensity - %               90                                                     97                                                     107
Irrigated Cropping Intensity - 7% 67                                                        71                                                      96
1/ For groups of two or more crops, yields shown are weighted averages.
2/  As fodder is used for farm animal consumption, production is not evaluated.



I NDIA
CHANBAL COMMfAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Agricultural Production - Area C (62,000 ha)
Present                                       FtlFure - Without Project                               Future - with Project
Area     Yfl fi    Prod.jction   Net Value of         Area     Yield    Production   Net Value of           Area      Yield    Production   Net Value of
Crop                   '000 ha   Lon/ha    '000 ton        Production        '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton        Production         '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton        Production
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Rs '000---                                        --Ra '000---               -N   00-
K H A R I F - Irrigated
Paddy                                       0.6       2.1         1.3             780             1.2       2.4         2.9           1,780             1.9        2.8         5.3           3,050
Sorghum and Maize                           0.3      0.8         0.2               80             0.8       0.8         0.6             210             0.6        1.0        0.6              340
Pulses                                      1.9      0.4         0.8              690             1.9       0.4         0.8             610             1.9        0.5        1.0              610
Oilseeds and Groundnut                      0.5       0.7        0.4              360             0.5       0.7         0.4             350              0.6       1.0        0.6              670
Sugarcane                                   0.3     40.5        12.2            1,090             0.5      45,0        22.5           1,900              0.5      50.0       25.0            2,200
K H A R I F - Non Irrigated
Sorghum and Maize                           8.6       0.5        4.3            1,820             8.7       0.5         4.4           1,450              8.9       0.6         5.3           1,000
Pulses                                      0.5      0.4         0.2              180             0.6       0.4         0.2             220              0.6       0.5         0.3             230
Oilseeds                                    0.2       0.7        0.1              250             0.3       0.7         0.2             370              0.6       0.8         0.5             840
Sub-Total                          12.9                                 5,250             14.5                                 6,890            15.6                                  8,940
Cropping Intensity - %             22                                                     23                                                    25
R A B I - Irrigated
Wheat                                      21.8       1.2        26.2          16,520            23.6       1.5        35.4          21,900             24.8       1.8        44.6          24,970
Gram, Oilseeds and Pulses                   7.7       0.6         4.6           4,430             8.4       0.7         5.9           4,960              9.3       0.9         8.4           7,200
Potatoes                                    0.1       6.5         0.7             110             0.1       8.0         0.8             160              0.2       9.0         1.8             400
Coriander                                   0.9       0.7         0.6           1,000             0.9       0.7         0.6           1,000              0.9       0.8         0.7           1,140
Fodder2 /
R A B I - Non Irrigated
Wheat                                       3.7       0.8         3.0           2,120              3.7      0.9         3.3           2,410              3.7        1.0        3.7            2,420
Gram and Pulses                             2.1       0.7         1.5             890             2.4       0.6         1.4           1,000              2.5       0.8         2.0           1,230
Coriander                                   0.9       0.4         0.4             570             0.9       0.4         0.4              560             0.9       0.4         0.4              510
Sub-Total                           37.2                               25,640             40.0                                31,990            42.3                                 37,870
Cropping Intensity - %             60                                                     65                                   -                68
Total _l                                                           30.890             54.5                               38,880             57.9                                 64,810
Cropping Intensity - %              81                                                    88                                                     93
Irrigated Cropping Intensity - % 55                                                       61                                                     66
1/  For groups of two or more crops, yields shown are weighted averages.                                                                                                                              H
2/  As fodder is used for farm animal consumption, production is not evaluated.                                                                                                                      _
11-



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Agricultural Production - Total Project Area
Present              Future-Without Project    Future -With Project           Incremental
Area      Production        Area      Production        Area      Production       Production
Crop                           '000 ha    '000 ton         '000 ha    '000 ton         '000 ha    '000 ton           '000 ton
(1)         (2)             (3)         (4)             (5)          (6)           (6) - (2)
Paddy                                          6.1         12.5           10.7         28.3           20.1         71.5              59.0
Sorghum                                       27.8         12.2           30.0         17.8            32.0         28.4             40.6
Maize                                          2.3          1.4            4.8           3.3            7.3         10.0              8.6
Kharif Pulses                                  8.6          3.6            7.5          3.6           14.2           9.4              5.8
Kharif Oilseeds                                 -            -               -            -             2.5          3.8              3,8
Groundnuts                                     3.0          2.3            3.0          3.0            4.4           6.5              4.2
Sugarcane                                      1.6         65.4            2.2        110.0             3.7       263.0             197.6
Wheat                                         99.6        116.6           104.9       146.7           108.6        240.0            123.4
Gram                                           7.5          5.2           14.6         11.7            19.2         20.2             15.0
Rabi Pulses                                   32.7         19.5           28.1         19.8            23.0         20.4              0.9
Rabi Oilseeds                                  0.9          0.5            3.7          3.1             7.6         11.1             10.6
Potatoes                                       0.3          1.9            0.7          5.6             1.7         27.6             25.8
Coriander                                      7.6          4.3            7.6          3.7             7.4          5.2              0.9
Fodder                                         0.9            .             1.7           .             1.9
Total                                   198.9                       219.5                       253.6
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cropping Intensity -                     8 87                        96                         ill                                                  a,



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Proposed Cropping Calendar-
Crop and Season            January        February        March         April           May           June           July        August       September    October    November              December
KHARIF
Paddy
xx xxxxxxxxxcxx
.~~~~~~~~~~~i                                i ~   i i   ....    11141. ..  ..........  ..... ..   ,...... =='.=
Sorghum & Maize                                                        tl I                       III .......
Pulses                                                                                                      
Iliillill  ,.....................       .....   .....   ....
Oilseeds                                                                                                       I             I              I
I 111111111.........       ,,,,........,.,. ==========
(:roundnut                                                                                                    1              1              1              !
Sugarcane                                                   =                                                                I                                           I I  I
III   I    I  I I  I  I 1 !-[++ +4   1-4-4!  ., ..,,..........,,.,,.......,......,,, .|.,.............  ,  .,,..... ..... .. ... .. ... .. ... ..
RAR3T                                                  I                                                                                     I1II
Wheat                   ...    .................           .......
Pulses                   ,... ... 1_ .......+
Gram                    .. ..........................
Oilseeds                ...         ,  .......                                                                ,J,== ...........,
Potatoe_._._._._.. t                                                                                                                                                                               . . .=====  ._____   .  __________._________ 
Coriander               ..... .. ,      ,,,,,.,,,,,=                                                                                                                                  ===r.................... .1,,.,,.,................ ,
Fo dde r           ===... ===....  1== F...  == ... -==...._.. 
Legend:       Land Preparation:    xxx Nursery:    +     Sowing:                = Harvest:    ... Vegetative Stage.
1/  The cropping calendar is  tentative  and would be further refined by  the project extension  services.



akm 11
Figure 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMANID ARIA DEVEIOMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Proposed Cop Rotation at Full Development
(crop areas represented are drawn to soale)
-Kharit--------  ----------Rabi----------
Paddy                      Fallow
Potatoes
Coriander
Fodder
Maize
Grounciuts
* Vegetables
Cropping Tntensity          69%                     83%           Total - 152%
Irrigation Intensity :    57%                       80%           Total   137%
Irrigated



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Marketing, Prices, Processing and Storage
Marketing
1.        Farm produce is normally taken to a market town (mandi) by a bullock
cart owned by the farmer or a neighbor. Tractors with trailers are also able
to negotiate the cart tracks and are beinig increasingly used. Trucks are
used on the main roads between markets and also pick up produce beside the
road at designated locations. For crops not under Government control, the
marketable surplus is sold at auction by an agent, for a 1X commission. A
further 1% fee is p.aid to the mandi to cover operating costs. Commission
agents also act as moneylenders. Marketing is regulated by local committees,
supervised by the GOR, under the Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets Act
of 1961.
2.        Existing market facilities are generally unsatisfactory.  Market
areas, which are often open fields or waste land, are congested and unsanitary
and there is usually insufficient space 1:0 store and display the produce.
GOR has an ambitious program to rectify this problem in the project area by
constructing 15 market yards, with platforms, godowns, parking space, bank
offices and other facilities. The'total cost would be over Rs 100 million
but it is unlikely that this target will be reached in the Fifth Plan period.
Some income would be available from the improved facilities to repay the
investment.
3.        The other major marketing problem is the lack of adequate roads,
which causes the marketing operation to be very time consuming for the farmer
and hinders the timely performance of his other farm activities. For example,
the farmer must spend at least one full day to get each cartload to the market,
unloaded, weighed, and sold and to return home. In many cases this would
require two days. Therefore, a farmer with 2 ha of high-yielding paddy (4
ton/ha) spenis about ten days marketing his produce. This may seriously
interfere with land preparation for the next crop. As the lengths of village
and feeder roads to be constructed under the project are rather small (Annex
2), the proj?ct would only be a first step in overcoming this problem.
However, improvements to major roads under the project, which would be more
substantial, would result in lower transport costs from the primary markets
(mandis) to the consumption centers, which should in turn lead to improved
auction and Farm-gate prices for produce.
4.        The increase in the volume of production in the area due to the
project would place a severe strain on the existing marketing system. How-
ever, the market yard program (para 2) and the projected increase in storage



ANNEX 12
Page   2
(para 18) should do much to relieve this. Other services, such as truck
transportation, are mostly in private hands and are expected to grow in
response to demand. Particular marketing problems of the major crops are
described below.
5.        Wheat - is the staple crop in this area and the bulk of prcduction
is retained for home consumption. Flour milling is done in the home or in
the village. Under the project, wheat production would expand from 117,000
tons at present to 240,000 tons in 1982. After the rabi harvest of 1973, the
wheat trade was nationalized but this decision was recently rescinded. Various
public sector agencies, including the Food Corporation of India, the Rajasthan
Food and Civil Supplies Department and the cooperatives, now procure wheat at
fixed prices and sell it to consumers through Fair Price Shops. However, as
a result of recent shortages of foodgrains, market prices are well above
official procurement levels.
6.        Rice - is not a traditional crop in Rajasthan and is not widely
eaten there.  Production in the project area is expected to rise from
12,000 tons of paddy at present to 72,000 tons at full development and most
of the increment would be exported to other parts of India, where there would
be a continuing strong demand.
7.        Sorghum - is another important foodgrain.  Production with the pro-
ject should increase from about 12,000 tons at present to 28,000 tons at full
development. This increase should not lead to any marketing problems.
8.        Sugarcane - is mainly processed to gur (raw brow,n sugar) in household
or village factories, with only 25, of the project area's cane production
being refined. Rajasthan is a net importer of sugar and no problems are
foreseen in finding markets for the increase in refined sugar output, when
production of sugarcane grows to an expected 263,000 tons from the present
65,000 tons. There may, however, be a processing problem (para 15) which may
act as a constraint on production. Sugar mills purchase cane from farmers at
or above minimum prices that are set by COR and are obliged to sell 70% of
their sugar production at controlled prices for distribution through the Fair
Price Shops. GOR is also restricting the activities of the gur producers so
as to channel business to the sugar mills, which have a considerably Iligher
extraction efficiency.
9.        Other Crops - would be produced in smaller tonnages and all seem to
have good to excellent marketing prospects both locally and for interstate
sales.  A very minor proportion of production from the project area, parti-
cularly of linseed, would be for export.
Prices
10.       Farm-gate prices used for estimating farm income and for evaluating
the economic benefits of the project are shown in Table 1. For the major crops,
paddv, wheat and sorghum (as well as maize), farm-gate prices were derived from
estimated world market prices for 1980, compiled by the Bank's Economic Analysis



ANNEX 12
Page   3
and Projections Department, with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling,
processing and storage. For maize and sorghum, the farm-gate price was
reduced to allow for the quality differential between the project area produc-
tion and the internationally traded product. As the prices so derived are
very close to average actual farm-gate prices in the project area in recent
years, the same prices were used for the project financial analysis.
11.       For the other crops, which are not foodgrains, production is small
and is consumed domestically. Failure to produce these crops in the project
area would not result in any increase in imports and, therefore, world market
prices, which in any case are only available for a few of these crops, are
hardly relevant for project analysis. Tlerefore, for these crops, average
actual farm-gate prices over the past four years, adjusted to early-1974
values, were used, for both economic and financial analysis.
12.       Bank projections of fertilizer prices show a decline over the next
five years. For project economic and financial analysis, values above the
projected 1980 levels, but generally below the peak levels experienced in
early 1974 were used, so that the full irmpact of the expected high cost of
fertilizer on the farm budgets during the critical early years of project
development would be fully accounted for,.
Processing
13.       Major processing units in and around the project area include:  a
modern sugar mill of 1,250 tons daily crushing capacity and ten gur factories
with a combined output of 3,000 tons; 12 rice mills with a total annual pro-
duction of 7,000 tons of rice; 40 vegetable oil mills with a combined output
of 12,000 tons; and 7 processing units for pulses with a total output of
about 20,000 tons.
14.       It is expected that, for crops other than sugarcane, processing
capacity would expand with increased production. This expansion would take
Dlace mainlv in the private sector, with some participation by cooperatives.
The output of the existing rice mills would be greatly enhanced by the con-
struction of additional storage to enable a longer production season.
15.       The existing sugar mill will soon reach its designed output and
further investment in milling capacity would be required to accommodate
the expected increase in output from the project area. GOR has a plan for
doubling the capacity of the existing mill and for constructing a new mill
in the right bank area. The closure time of the RMC would be reduced as
a result of the expected improvements in aquatic weed control, and thus
the growing of sugarcane under perennial irrigation in the right bank area
would become possible towards the end of the project implementation period.
There is some possibility that shortages of funds might delay the proposed
investments in sugar mills. Without these mills, sugarcane production, which
is one of the most attractive crops from the farmer's point of view (Annex 13),
would he constrained. Some increases could be accommodated by the gur pro-
cessors. Even if a failure to construct sufficient milling capacity results
in lower than projected sugarcane production, such an eventuality is tLnlikely
to affect the viability of the project.



ANNEX 12
Page   4
16.       The improvements in the road system, described in Ar.nex 2, would
reduce delaFs in the transport of sugarc:ane and thus improve the sugar
recovery rate.
Storage
17.       Scorage facilities in and around the project area total 60,000
tons of which 45,000 tons is owned by the Central Warehousing Corporation
(GOI), the Food Corporation of India and the Rajasthan State Warehousing
Corporation, with the remaining capacity owned by cooperatives and private
traders. The Food Corporation of India is about to construct a 20,000 ton
wheat silo in Kota, with assistance from IDA Credit 267-IN.
18.       P:-esent storage capacity would be inadequate for expected future
conditions aind additional facilities for about 150,000 tons capacity would
be needed bv 1980, to accommodate part of the increased volumes of inputs
and produce., Proposed investments by GOR, the cooperative sector and
private traders should more than cover these needs.



ANNEX 1?
Table 1
INDIA
CHAYBAI COW-AND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Sluwmary of i'rices
Price fob/cif Bombay
Estimated Farm-gate Price                 2/ Actual   Projected
Seed   Produce              Estimate    1974-!    1980/
---------- Rs/ton--- ------           ----- US$/ton -----------
Paddy                   1,300        900       Ricce5/   145        300+     130-165
So3'cihir.                 875       700                  65        125          85
Ma- z7e                    875       700                  65        140          90
Khar-' pulses           1,o)50    1,200
Kharif oilseeds         2,500    1,900
Gro ndnu t              1,950    1,500
Sugarcane                  125       100
lWieat                  1,300    1,000                   105        230      1 0O-1 35
G ram                   1,300        900
Rabi o lseeds           2,200    1,750
Rabi pulses             1,650    1,200
Potatoes                  800        500
a < .  n d e        L2,400    1,900
~~< .i te.        ~~~~~~1 C'CG)
J~e r                10,00OO
Fertili.-er
(nutrient tons)
Fann-gate Price   f.o.r. Kota
--- Rs/ton-
N                     4,000              3,0()         425        0O         250
k-.t': 3,6,00                         3, ?0   (     '380
K A ( )               2,600              2, 3((,0      275        120        110
1/ i)ricer- itsed in project finanicial and economic analysis.
/ Eql2ivalent. of estimated farm-gate produce price.
3/ J arua. rv1 ½;741 ;-:orld market prices.
!$/ '.Ncrld Bank crojections of February, 1974.
As Aozuned 25'  brokeno.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Farm Budgets
1.        The purposes of estimating farm budgets are several:
(a) to determine the effects of the project on farm income
for representative farm sizes and cropping patterns;
(b) to determine the capacity of the project beneficiaries
to repay part of the cost of the project and, for farmers
in Area A only, the capacity to repay a commercial bank
loan for on-farm development; and
(c) to determine the position of the project area farmers
within the national income distribution scale.
2.        Crop budgets for the major crops in the project area, namely,
paddy, sugarcane and wheat, are given in Tables 1, 2 and 3. Production
costs for all crops are summarized in Table 4.
3.        Several farm sizes and cropping patterns were chosen.  A farm
size of 2 ha is representative of the large number of small farmers in the
project area. Farmers with very small holdings (less than 1 ha) usually
earn most of their income from off-farm employment. A 3 ha farm was also
examined, as such farms are not eligible for the small farmer subsidy
(Annex 7). A farm size of 4 ha approximates the average size for the
project area, while a 6 ha farm was also examined to show the position of
the larger farmers. Three cropping patterns were also examined. The
"high-average income" cropping pattern is somewhat above the projected
average for the project area (Annex 11), with emphasis on the higher-income
crops like paddy, sugarcane and wheat. The "low-income" cropping pattern,
on the other hand, assumes that, because of water supply or marketing
difficulties, these higher-income crops could not be grown to a large
extent and instead uses a lower cropping intensity and lower-value crops.
An "average-income" cropping pattern was also examined.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        The following cases were investigated:
Area        Farm Size        Cropping Pattern         Table
---ha----
A             2            Low income                 6
Average-.cigh income       7
3           Low inco.ne                 8
6            Low income                 9
B             4            Average income            10
C             4           Average income             11
For Area A, cash flows are evaluated year-by-year for a period of 15 years
and projected loan repayments are deducted.  For Areas B and C, the present
situation is compared with the farm income at full development. In all
cases, the development period is taken as eight years, which is rather
slower than the average for the project areas.  For the project economic
analysis (Annex 14), full development of the whole project area is assumed
to occur nine years after project commencement, which indicates that, for
individual farms, the average period would be about five years. A more
conservative assumption was made for farra budget analysis since the farm
which is slower to develop is the most ljikely to experience repayment
difficulties.
5.        Area A - Cropping patterns and input levels for Area A are given
in Table 5. In order to determine a loan ceiling to guide the selection
of chaks for on-farm development (Annexes 2 and 7), the cost of on-farm
development was conservatively taken as Rs 2,750/ha, at present prices,
compared to a projected average for the project area of Rs 1,960/ha
(Annex 4). Water charges in accordance with para 5.25 were deducted, as
was interest on short-term credit and an allowance for family consumption,
which depended on the size of farm and was assumed to increase gradually
with time.  Hired labor was costed at Rs 5/day but such labor is only
required in the 6 ha case.  In all cases, the evaluation (Tables 6 to 9)
showed that, even for the smaller farm sizes with lower-value crops, a
longer than average development period, and an above-average cost of
development, repayment of the loan (with a 25% subsidy in the case of the
2 ha farm) olver ten years at 10% per annum interest was possible, as long
as there is a grace period of two years on the repayment of principal.
Therefore, it is proposed that the figure of Rs 2,750/ha (in late-1973
prices) be used as a ceiling when deciding whether a chak should be in-
cluded in the on-farm development program. The case of an individual
high-cost holding within a chak which is, on average, below the ceiling
is discussed in Annex 7.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
6.        The proportion of incremental income used to repay the cost of
on-farm development and water charges would vary according to the size of
holding and the cropping pattern assumed. The worst case examined was the
2 ha farm with a low-income cropping pattern (Table 6). In this case,
the repayment obligation would amount to 73% of expected incrementaL
income in the first year, declining to 30% in the tenth year. While this
would undoubtedly be a severe obligation, it does leave an adequate margin
for risk and would give the farmer a reasonable incentive to participate.
For the average farmer, the obligation would be much less severe.
7.        Areas B and C - Operational and financial farm results for
farms of average size in Areas B and C are given in Tables 10 and 11
respectively. For Area B, farm income at full development would average
Rs 4,400, compared with Rs 2,200 at present and proposed water charjges
would equal 20% of incremental income. For Area C, farm income would
rise from Rs 1,900 to Rs 3,000 and proposed water charges would equal 25%
of incremental income. The proposed water charges (para 5.25) wouldl be
reasonable in view of the relatively lcw income projected even with the
project.
8.        Relative Income - Under present conditions, the median family
income in the project area is about Rs 1,200/yr and 40% of families
earn less than Rs 1,050/yr. At full project development, the median
income would be Rs 3,000/yr and the 40-percentile value Rs 2,250/yr.
The present median income is equivalent to a per capita personal income
of US$25/yr, compared with a national average of US$55 and a national
median of US$33/yr. 1/ At present, about 55% of the project area farmers
fall within the lowest 40% of the national income scale. However, because
of the skewed farm size distribution (para 3.09), these farmers account
for only 15% of the project area, if all holdings are included. If hold-
ings below 0.5 ha are excluded from the definition of a farm, as such
micro-holdings are generally owned by town dwellers and merchants in this
part of Inclia, then about 25% of the area is owned by farmers with income
below the national 40-percentile level.
1/   Personal income figures cited are based on a National Council of Applied
Economic Research Survey. These results appear to contain a degree of
under-reporting.



INDTA
CHAMBAL COMIMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Crop Budget: Paddy
----Future - With Project----
Present - All Areas           Area A                Area B               Area C
Item                    kg/ha   Rs/ha           kg/ha   Rs/ha        kg/ha   Rs/ha         kg/ha   Rs/ha
Production Costs1/
Seed                                 30       40              30      40           30       40          30       40
Fertilizer - N                       50      200            150      600           90      360          85      340
- P205                   25       90             60      220          45      160           43      155
- K20                            -              - _                                  -              -
Plant Protection                              40             ,       120          .         80         .         80
Interest                                      10             .         80         .         20                   20
Total Costs                             380                   1,060                  660                   635
.                           _
Yield (ton/ha) (Annex 11)                          2.1                     4.0                  3.2                   2.8
Price (Rs/ton) (Annex 12)                       900                      900                  900                   900
Gross Value of Production (Rs/ha)             1,890                    3,600                2,880                 2,520
Net Value of Productionl' (Rs/ha)             1,510                    2,540                2,220                 1,885
1/  Excluding cost of labor.
DX>



INDIA
C-iAMBAL COMMAAW) ARLA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Crop Budget: Sugarcane
----Future - With Project--------------
Present - All Areas           Area A                Area B               Area C
Item                      kg/ba   Rs/ha           kg/ha   Rs/ha         kg/ha   Rs/ha        kgha   Rs/ha
1/
Production Costs
Planting material                   500      600             500      600         500      600         500       000
Fertilizer - N                       30      120             150      600          80      320          45      180
- P205                   15       55              70     255           35      130          35      130
- K20                    10       25              60     155           15       40          23       60
Plant protection                    .        120             .        320         ,        240                  160
Interest                            .         10             .         80                   20                   20
Total Costs                             930                   2,010                1,350                 1,150
Yield (ton/ha) (Annex 11)                         40                      80                    65                   50
Price (Rs/ton) (Annex 12)                        100                     100                   100                  100
Gross Value of Production (Rs/ha)             4,000                    8,000                6,500                 5,000
Net Value of Production (Rs/ha)                3,070                   5,990                 5,150                3,850
1/  Excluding cost of labor.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Crop Budget: Wheat
---------------Future - With Project---------------
Present - All Areas          Area A-/            Area B              Area C
Item                   k/ha   Rs/ha           kg/ha   Rs/ha       kg/ha   Rs/ha       kg/ha   Rs/ha
2/
Production Costs
Seed                             100       130           100      130        100      130        100       130
Fertilizer - N                    50       200           120      480        100      400         90       360
- P205                 25       90            60      220         50       180        45       160
- K20                  -       -              -        -          -        -           -       -
Plant protection                            40                    200         .        160                 120
Interest                                    10            .        80         .         20        .         20
Total Costs                           470                  1,110                 890                  790
Yield (ton/ha) (Annex 11)                       1.2                     3.7                 2.2                  1.8
Price (Rs/ton) (Annex 12)                   1,000                  1,000                1,000               1,000
Gross Value of Production (Rs/ha)           1,200                  3,700                2,200               1,800
Net Value of Production (Rs/ha)2/             730                  2,590                1,310               1,010
i/  "Fully irrigated" case.
2/ Excluding cost of labor.                                                                                             m x



TNDIA
CILANBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENr PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
1/
Production Costs
(Rs/ha)
Present         Future - Without Project          Future - With Project
All Areas        Area A   Area B   Area C         Area A   Area B   Area C
K H A R I F - Irrigated
Paddy                                       380              665       525      440        1,060       660       635
Sorghuim                                    210              380      310       315           770       535      410
Maize                                       205              415       345       380          920       585       430
Pulses                                      135              190      175        160          710      280       280
Oilseeds                                                                                      570
Groundnuts                                  330              475       370       355          670      475        385
Sugarcane                                   930            1,120    1,650    1,050         2,010    1,350    1,150
K H A R I F - Non Irrigated
Sorghum                                     140              265       225       185          535       360       315
Maize                                        180             355       230       235                    295       250
Pulses                                      120              190       175       120          325       240       225
Oilseeds                                      90             145       145        95          320       215       115
R A B I - Irrigated
Wheat (full irrigation)                                                                     1,110
Wheat (supplemental irrigation)              470             795       680       570          860       890       790
Gram                                         180             300       255       240          530       370       280
Oilseeds                                     200             400       295       310          715       400       375
Pulses                                      160              220       230       230          505       355       315
Potatoes                                  1,480            1,690    1,600    1,620          2,280    1,840    1,600
Coriander                                    210             305       275       220          680       340       255
Fodder                                       600             670            .                 860
R A B I  -  Non Irrigated
Wheat                                        200             310       270       250           380       320       345
Gram                                         180             245       235       195           305      270       280
Pulses                                       130             185       210       135           345       220      220
Coriander                                    125             215       215       130          240       265       190
1/ Includes interest on production credit but excludes cost of labor.
P H:



INDIA
CHA_14AL COIMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PAJASTMAi)
Area A - 50.000 h.
Operation l and Financial Fore Results
A*s.oed Croppfug Patterns, _Net Returns *nd Current Output end LAbor U-e
Cropping Patternai
Lc  Incooe Par.             AveraRe-Hlgh Inco_e YFro         Net Value of Production               Expeced use of Current input and Labor
Pre.en. t      At    l                        At   ll            Present       At Pull                         Fertili.ers        Peat
Crop                 Situation      Development        Situation  Seveloment           Situation   _velopfent         Seeds          N    P?0S  KE0   Control          Labor
n-fe----R----------Int 71 of F.m Ar I--------------------        ---------/-----------           -------------                                Mvn-days7bl.
R H A R I FS E A S O N
A. Irriated
Paddy                              4              15                 6           20                1,242        2,143               30        120    60       -      100          122
Sorghum                            4               -                 -            -                  348          -                30        100    60        -       -            57
Maize                               -                                 2 -         12                 -                              25         90    60       -       65           59
Pulses                             -                                 2            52.!               865~       I'                  40         30    40       20      -            71
Oilseeds                            -              -                 -             5                 -          2,280               40         30    40       20      65           50
Growndnuts                          2              8                 2             7                 865        2,032              100         30    40       20      65           92
Sugarcane                           -              4                 2            6                         -             -                    -      -       -       -            -
Otbers                              -              21!               -             33/               -            -                 31         40    30       -       -            60
3. Ron Irrigated
Sorghum                            4               4                12             5                 196          251               30         40    30       -       -            49
Maize                               4              4                  4            5                 239           275              25         40    30       -       -             50
Othere                              23_/           -                 23/           -                 -            -                 30         -       -      -       -            50
R A B I S t A IS 0 N
A. Irrigated
Wheat (full)                       37             30                 45           30                  621       2,591              100        150    60        -     65            112
uheet (eoppl-nentcl)                -             10                  -           16                  -         1,192              100)       [ZO    60        -     6!;           96
Grt-eu                              -             10                  -           12                  -            814              40         -      40       -       -            5'.
Pulses                              8              4                12             -                 549           641              40         -     40        -      -             54
Potatoe                             -              -                  -            6                  -         5,928            1,500        I'm    60      60       65          135
Coriander                           2              2                  2            3               1,028        1,115               20         45    30        -      -            45
Sugarcene                           -              4                  2            6               3,757        6,528            4,250         70    30       20     200          242
Fodder                              2              3                  2            4                  -            -                5r0        40   100        -       -           10
Othets                              -              241                -            -                  -          1,034              40          30    40      20       -            71
B  Sos Irriete-d
Wheat                               6              -                  4            -                  570          -               100         40    30        -       _            82
Gram                                2              -                  4            -                  336          -                40         -       -       -       -            44
Oilseeds                            3              5                  2            8                  331          427                8         -      -       -       -            40
Pulses                              3              5                  -            7                  346          474              4)                 -       -       -            44
Other.                              2/             -                  2_4/         -                  865          -                40          -      -       _                    71
Cropping Intensity                    85            125                105          160                              Annual Labor Requireraent an 2 ha and 6 he Farm
--------- --            an-  days---------
Irrigation Inten.aty                  55            110                 75          135
Present       At Full
Si tation   Develo_nt
2 h.6 ha    2 ha. 6 he
Lo  Ineo,te Fam            148  444       223  669
AveragR-sigh Income Fern 186  558         281  643
1/  Excludes coer ol ilrc'J lahor, irrigation.  bererment levy and interest.
2/ Soybean or other high-valued kharif otilseeds.
P/ Fodder.
4/ Vegetables.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Operational and Financial Farm Results
Sources and Use of Funds"l
Area A - Low-Income Farm - 2 ha
------------------------------------------- Year: -------------------------------------------
Item                      0        1       2        3       4        5       6        7        8       9        10    11-15
----------------------------------              Rs ---------------------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Bank Loan_/                        4,125      -       -        -       -        -       -        _        _       -        _        _
Government Subsidy                 1,375      -       _        _       _        _        _       _        _       _        _        _
Sub-Total                        5,500     -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Net Value of Production              980   1,625   2,125   2,575   3,000   3,325   3,575   3,850   4,070   4,070   4,070   4,070
Less Cost of:
Water Charge                        60       60      60       90     128      128     128      128      128     128      128      128
Betterment Levy                    -        -       -         36      72       72      72       72       72      72       72       72
Interest/                          -        32       42       52      63       63      63       63       63      63       63       63
Sub-Total                          920   1,533   2,023   2,397   2,737   3,062   3,312   3,587   3,807   3,807   3,807   3,807
Total Funds                 6,420   1 533   2,023   2,397   2,737   3,062   3            3,587   3,807   3,807   3.807   3 807
Use of Funds
Investment                         5,500      -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Family Allowance                     920   1,120   1,200   1,200   1,400   1,500   1,600   1,700   1,800   1,900   2,000   2,400
Debt Service4/                       _       413      413      721     721      721      721     721      721      721     728      -
Total                       6,420   1,533   1,613   1,921   2,121   2,221   2,321   2,421   2,521   2,621   2,728   2,400
Cash Position
Annual                               -        -       410      476      616     841      991   1,166   1,286   1,186   1,079   1,407
Cumulative                           -        -       -        886   1,502   2,343   3,334   4,500   5,786   6,972   8.051          -
1/ Based on data presented in Table 5, (full development assumed in Year 8).
2/ For ten years, including two year's grace at 10% annual interest.
3/ 10.5% annual interest on a six month production credit increasing from Rs600 to Rsl,200 per year.
4/ Interest during grace period and thereafter repayment of interest and principal in eight equal annual payments.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
operational and Financial Farm Results
Sources and Use of Fundsal
Area A - Average to High-Income Farm - 2 ha
---  - - - -  - - - - --  - - - - - - - -  - - Year:--   - - - - - -  - - -- - -  - - - - -  - - -
Item                     0        1       2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9       10    11-15
------------------------           -      -      Rs------------------------
Sources of Funds
Bank Loan2/                        4,125      -       -        -       -        _        -       -        -        -       _        -
Government Subsidy                 1,375      -       -        -       -        -
Sub-Total                        5,500     -        _       _        _
Net Value of Production            1,451   2,700   3,700   4,200   4,700   5,100   5,300   5,500   5,635   5,635   5,635   5,635
Less Cost of:
Water Charge                        60       60      60       90      128     128      128     128      128      128     128      128
Betterment Levy                    -       -        -         36      72       72      72       72       72       72      72       72
Interest3/                         -        32       50       67      84       84      84       84       84      84       84       84
Sub-Total                        1,391   2,608   3,590   4,007   4,416   4,816   5,016   5,216   5,351   5,351   5,351   5,351
Total Funds                  6  1         ,60    3 590 ,007   4416   4,816   5 016   5,216  5_351 5_351   5 31   551
______               6891    ,60    359        4        _ __
Use of Funds
Investment                         5,500      -       -        -       -        _        _       _        _        _       _        _
Family Allowa ce                   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,500   1,600   1,700   1,800   2,000   2,200   2,400   2,400   2,400
Debt Service_/                       -       413      413      721     721      721      721     721      721      721     728      -
Total                        6,700   1,713   1,813   2,221   2,321   2,421   2,521   2,721   2,921   3,121   3,128   2,400
Cash Position
Annual                               191      895   1,777   1,786   2,095   2,395   2,495   2,495   2,430   2,230   2,223   2,951
Cumulative                           -      1,086   2,863   4,649   6,744   9,139  11,634  14,129  16,559  18,789  21,012            -
1/ Based on data presented in Table 5, (full development assumed in Year 8).
2/For a period of ten years, including two year's grace at 10% annual interest,
3/10.5% annual interest on six nontlhs production cred-it, increasing from Rs600 in year 1 to Rsl,600 in year 4.
4/interest payments during grace period and thoEreafter repayment of principal and interest in e-ight equal annual payments.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMNT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Operational and Financial Farm  S sults
Sources and use or Funds-/
Area A - Low-Income Farm - 3 ha
------------------ - -------------------- Year: -------_________________________________
Item                    0        1        2       3        4        5       6        7        8       9        10    11-15
-----------------------------------Rs---------------------------------------------
Sources of Funds
Bank LoanZ_                        8,250      -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -
Government Subsidy                   -
Sub-Total                        8,250      -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -
Net Value of Production            1,470   2,437   3,187   3,862   4,500   4,987   5,362   5,775   6,105   6,105   6,105   6,105
Less Cost of:
Water Charge                         90      90       90     135      192      192      192     192      192      192      192     192
Betterment Levy                    -        -        -        54      108      108     108      108      108      108     108      108
Interest3/                         -         48       64      80       95       95      95       95       95       95      95       95
Sub-Total                        1,380   2,299   3,033   3,593   4,105   4,592   4,967   5,380   5,710   5,710   5,710   5,710
Total Funds                  9,630   2,299   3,033   3,593   4          4,592              ,380      710   5,710   5 710   5,710
Use of Funds
Investment                         8,250      -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -
Family Allowance                   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,400   1,600   1,800   2,000   2,200   2,400   2,400   2,400   3,000
Debt Service4/                       -        825      825   1,443   1,443   14         1,443            1,443   1,443   1            -
Total                        9,450   2,025   2,025   2,843   3,043   3,243   3,443   3,643   3,843   3,843   3,849   3,000
Cash Position
Annual                                180     274   1,008       750   1,062   1,349   1,524   1,737   1,867   1,867   1,861   2,710
Cumulative                            -       454   1,462   2,212   3,274   4,623   6,147   7,884   9,751  11,618  13,479             -       X
1/ Based on data presented in Table 5, (full development assumed in year 8).
2/ For ten years including two year's grace, at 10% annual interest.
3/ 10,5% annual interest on a six month production credit, increasing from Rs900 to Rsl,800 per year.
4/ Interest during grace period and thereafter repayment in equal annual payments of interest and principal.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Operational and Financial Farm Results
Sources and Use of Fundsl'
Area A - Low-Income Farm - 6 ha
----------- ---------------------------- Year: ------------------------------
Item                      0       1        2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9        10    11-15
------------------- - --------'------------Rs--_______________
Sources of Funds
Bank Loan.-                       16,500     -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Government Subsidy                  1
Sub-Total                      16,500          -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -            -
Net Value of Production            2,940   4,874   6,374   7,724   9,000   9,974  10,724  11,550  12,210  12,210  12,210  12,210
Less Cost of:
Hired Labor3/                      555     875   1,125   1,300   1,425   1,525   1,625   1,650   1,675   1,675   1,675   1,675
Water Charge                       180     180      180     270     384      384     384      384     384      384      384     384
Bettermenl Levy                    -       -       -        108     216      216     216      216     216      216     216      216
Interest4'                        -         95     130      160     190      190     190      190     190      190     190      190
Sub-Total                       2,205   3,724   4,939   5,886   6,785   7,659   8,309   9,110   9,745   9,745   9,745   9,745
Total Funds                18,705   3724   4939   5,886   678           659      309      110   9,745   9 745             9,745
Use of Funds
Investment                       16,500      -        -       -        -       -        _       _        _       _        _       _
Family Allowance                   2,205   2,074   2,289   2,500   2,700   2,900   3,100   3,300   3,500   3,700   4,000   4,000
Debt Service5V                       -     1,650   1,650   2,890   2,890   2,890   2,890   2,890   2,890   2,890   2.873          -
Total                      18,705   3,724   3,939   5,390   5,590   5,790   5,990   6,190   6,390   6,590   6,873   4,000
Cash Position
Annual                               _       _      1,000     496   1,195   1,869   2,319   2,920   3,355   3,155    2,872  5,745
Cumulative                           _                -     1,496   2,691   4,560   6,879   9,799  13,154  16,309   19,181    -
1/ Based on data presented in Table 5, (full development assumed in year 8).
2/ For a period of ten years, including two year's grace at 10%o annual interest.                                                             r 
3/ 25% of estimated annual man-days requirement in year 0, increasing to 50% in year 8.  Estimatedwage Rs5/man-day.
4/ 10.5% annual interest on six monthproduction  credit, increasing from Rsl,800 in year 1 to Rs3,600 in year 4.
5/ Interest in years 1 and 2  and paynent of principal and interest in eight equal annual instalments in years 3 to 10.



ANNEX 13
Table 10
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Operational and Financial Farm Results
Area B - 4 ha Farm_-A
Cropping Pattern                              Net Value of Production
Present      At Full                             Present       At Full
Situation   Development                          Situation   Development
----% of Farm Area-----                                   R/year--------
KHARIF - Irrigated
Paddy                        4             9                                  197           685
Sorghum                      1             2                                   10            19
Maize                        1             2                                   11            21
Pulses and Vegetables        2             2                                   28            35
Groundnuts                   1             2                                   29           130
Sugarcane                    1             2                                  _             _
KHARIF - Non Irrigated
Sorghum                     10            12                                   91            93
Maize                        1             2                                   11            16
RABI - Irrigated
Wheat                       39            43                                1,142         2,260
Gram                        -              5                                  -             123
Pulses                      15             9                                  342           225
Potatoes                    -              1                                  -             136
Coriander                    2             2                                   89            95
Sugarcane                    1             2                                  140           432
Fodder                       1             1                                  -             _
RABI - Non Irrigated
Wheat                        2             3                                   46            69
Gram                         2             2                                   35            39
Oilseeds                     2             2                                   27            29
Sub-Total             2,198         4,407
Cropping Intensity             85           105     Less Cost of:
Irrigation Intensity           68            82         Water Charge             120           256
Betterment Levy          -             144
Labor Requirement                                       Interest2/-                             73
(man-days/year)           310           380
Total             2,078         3,934
Family Allowance-/        2,000         2,500
Cash Surplus                 78         1,434
1/ Based on data used in the project's economic analysis.
2/ 10.5% annual interest on production credit of Rs2,100 for a period of six months.
3/ Estimate comparable with income of wage earner belonging to rural lower middle class.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL CaIMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Operational and Financial Ferm Results
Area C - 4 ha Farm_
Cropping Pattern                             Net Value of Production
Present      At Full                            Present       At Full
Situation   Development                         Situation   Development
----% of Farm Area                               -------Rs/year---
KHARIF - Irrigated
Paddy                       2             4                                 104           256
Sorghum                                   1                                 -              11
Maize                                     1                                                12
Pulses                      3             3                                  43            45
Groundnuts                  1             2                                  29            89
Sugarcane                  -              1                                 -
KHARIF - Non Irrigated
Sorghum                    13            13                                 121            55
Maize                       1             2                                  10            14
RABI - Irrigated
Wheat                      36            40                               1,090         1,610
Gram                       -              4                                 -             122
Pulses                     12             8                                 273           169
Potatoes                   -              1                                 -              80
Coriander                   1             1                                  46           101
Sugarcane                                 1                                               176
Fodder                      1             1                                               -
RABI - Non Irrigated
Wheat                       6             6                                 137           157
Gram                        3             3                                  53            63
Oilseeds                    2             3                                  27            45
Sub-Total           1,933         3,005
Cropping Intensity            81            95
Less Cost of:
Irrigation Intensity          56            68
Water Charge          120           128
Labor Requirement                                        Betterment Levy       -             144
(man-days/year)           290           330          InterestV/             -              73
Total           1,813        2,660
Family Allowance3/    1,800          2,300
Cash Surplus              13           360
1/ Based on data used in the project's economic analysis.
2/ 10.5% annual interest on production credit of Rs2,100 for a period of six months.
3/ Estimate comparable with income of wage earner belonging to rural lower middle class.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        All inputs and outputs were evaluated at projected 1980 market
prices expressed in 1974 constant prices. For the major internatioallaly
traded commodities, these prices correspond to the Bank's world market
price projections. Details are given in Annex 13.
Farm Labor
2.        There are at present about 60,000 farm families in the project
area, including about 5,000 families of landless laborers. Assuming that
each family supplies an average of 2.5 full-time farm workers for 20 days
per month or 240 days per year per worker, the total farm labor supply at
present is about 36 million man-days per year or 3 million man-days per
month. With 2% annual growth of farm population, the available labor
supply at project full development in year 9 would be 42 million man-days
per year or 3.5 million man-days per month.
3.        Estimates of annual labor requirements per ha for various crops
at present and in future with and without the project are given in Table 1.
Figures shown are average requirements for Areas A, B and C combined. Total
labor requirements by month are shown in Table 2. These figures show that
there are considerable seasonal fluctuations. Since most of this labor
would be unpaid family labor, labor mobility is restricted and the miarket
wage for unskilled labor is sometimes fixed by custom rather than market
forces, the market wage does not fully reflect the opportunity cost of
labor to the economy. The opportunity cost or shadow wage was therefore
estimated on a monthly basis using avaiLable information on labor supply
and demand.
4.        It is postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor
in the project area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve (Figure 1).
The marginal opportunity cost is positive at all levels of labor demand and
increases as more labor is employed in larm work. The increase is slow
initially, reflecting the scarcity of alternative productive employment,
but increases more rapidly as the labor supply becomes fully used. At the
employment level corresponding to full employment in the project area, the
marginal opportunity cost is assumed equal to the market wage rate. As
the demand for farm labor increases beyond this level, the opportunity cost
continues to rise but at a slower rate. At a level of 15 to 20% above the



ANNEX 14
Page 2
existing full employment wage, the opportunity cost curve becomes hori-
zontal, indicating that at that market wage (and opportunity cost) large
numbers of laborers would be attracted to the project area from surround-
ing areas.
5.        It is reasonable to approximate the S-shaped curve by three
straight line segments. Three points based on information from the
project area determine its position. Point A indicates the minimum
opportunity cost of farm labor which is estimated to be Rs 2 per man-day,
equal to Rs 1 as the economic value of alternative employment (house
repairs, odd jobs, etc.) plus Rs 1 to supply the additional nutritional
requirements of more strenuous farm work with the project. Point B
indicates that at full employment of 3.5 million man-days per month in
the project area (para 2), the opportunity cost would equal the market
wage of Rs 5 per man-day. The horizontal segment to the right of point C
indicates that at a wage of Rs 6 per m,n-day, large numbers of farm laborers
would be attracted to the project area from outside.
6.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the appropriate level of labor demand. The total economic
cost of labor is then the area under the curve up to that level of employ-
ment. Computed this way, the economic cost of labor would be Rs 84.6 mil-
lion with the project at full development and Rs 51.6 million without the
project, or an incremental cost of Rs 33 million. This would be equivalent
to pricing the incremental employment of 8.6 million man-days per year at
a shadow wage of Rs 3.8 per man-day, or 75% of the full employment market
wage for hired labor in the project area.
Project Costs
7.        Capital costs amounting to Li 273.5 million are included in the
economic analysis to represent the cos1: of irrigation, drainage, roads
and afforestation (Annex 4), together with physical but not price contin-
gencies. Sunk costs were not included, Project facilities are assumed
to have a salvage value of 33% of their original cost (at constant 1974
prices) at the end of the 30-year evaluation period. Operation and main-
tenance costs include those for irrigation, drainage, project roads and
extension services (Annex 4, Table 5). Farm labor costs are as computed
in para 6.
Projec.ectBeaefits
8.       ;Project benefits equal the irLcremental net value of production
without accounting for the operation and maintenance of project facilities
or for labor costs (Annex 11, Tables 1, 2 and 3). The phasing of project
benefits is made in accordance with Annex 11.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Economic Rate of Return
9.        The economic rate of return for the entire project area
(229,000 ha) is 19% (Table 3). By allocating project costs between Akreas A,
B and C, it is possible to evaluate separately the economic rate of return
for each area. While the cost of on-farm development can be clearly allo-
cated to Area A, and that for drainage to Areas A and B, the irrigation and
road costs are joint costs and any allocation is, to some extent, arbitrary.
Using a reasonable allocation, shown in Table 3, the rates of return would
be 24%, 14% and 12% for Areas A, B and C, respectively. These results show
that the investment attributable to each area separately is justified, and
that investment in on-farm development gives a higher return than irrigation
or drainage improvement alone.
Sensitivity Analysis
10.       Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis
have been varied in order to examine their impact on the rates of return.
The effects of the various assumptions on the rates of return are as
follows:
Assumption                         Rate of Return
(a)  Full employment market wage rate of
Rs; 5.0 for all incremental farm labor               17
(b)  Shadow wage rate of zero for all incre-
mental farm labor                                    26
(c)  Full project development delayed by
four years to year 12                                14
(d)  Benefits decreased by 25%                            12
11.       Tie above results show that there is moderate sensitivity to the
assumptions made in costing labor. There is also moderate sensitivit:y to
the race of agricultural development and the level of benefits attained.
This indicates that high priority must be given to agricultural extension
work and thE' provision of farm inputs su,-h as fertilizers.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Labor Requirements
(man-days/ha)
Full Development
Season and Crop                Present Without Project With Project
KHARIF - Irrigated
Paddy                             125           135            165
Sorghum                            60            65             80
Maize                              60            65             80
Pulses                             70            75             90
Oilseeds                           50            55             65
Groundnut                          90           100            115
Sugarcane                         240           265            310
KHARIF - Non-Irrigated
Sorghum                            50            55             65
Maize                              50            55             65
Pulses                             45            50             60
Oilseeds                           45            50             60
RABI - Irrigated
Wheat (full irrigation)           110           120            145
Wheat (supplemental irrigation) 100             110            130
Gram                               55            60             70
Oilseeds                           55            60             70
Pulses                             55            60             70
Potatoes                          135           150            175
Coriander                          45            50             60
Fodder                            100           110            130
RABI - Non-Irrigated
Wheat                              80            90            105
Gram                               45            50             60
Pulses                             45            50             60
Coriander                          40            45             50



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Economic Cost of Farm Labor (Year 8)
January   February   March   Aril   May   June   July   August   September   October   November   December   Total
Labor Requirement
(Million man-days)
Future With Project             3.9        1.8        3.0     4.7    2.4    1.7    0.6    1.1          0.9          4.4         3.0         1.3        2b.b
Future Without Project          2.9        1.4        2.5     3.7    1.6    0.8    0.3    0.6           0.5          2.8        2.3         1.0        20.4
Marginal Opportunity Cost
(Rs/man-day)
Future With Project             5.9        2.7        4.0     6.0    3.0    2.7    2.2    2.4           2.4          6.0        4.0         2.5         2.9
Future Without Project          3.9        2.6        3.0     5.4    2.6    2.3    2.1    2.2           2.2          3.6        2.9         2.4         2.5
Economic Cost of Labor
(Rs Million)
Future With Project            12.5        4.2        8.0    17.2    6.0    4.0    1.3    3.1           2.0         15.4        8.0         2.9        84.6
Future Without Project          7.6        3.2        6.2    11.3    3.7    1.7    0.6    1.3           1.0          7.2        5.6         2.2        51.6
Incremental Economic Cost of Labor
(Rs Million)
Future With Project minus
Future Without Project          4.9        1.0        1.8     5.9    2.3    2.3    0.7    1.8           1.0          8.2        2.4         0.7        33.0
' I:



AnNEX 14
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rs Million)
Entire Project Area (229,000 ha)                         Area A (50,000 ha)
Costs                Benefits                    Costs                 Benefits
Farm                                             Farm
Year      Capital   0 & M   Labor   Total                  Capital   0 & M   Labor   Total
1          21.3     13.5     -       34.8       -          13.3        4.3     -      17.6       -
41.8     15.5     1.4    58.7        5.6        26.1       4.9      0.9    31.9      3.5
45.6     16.5     3.8    65.9       15.8        28.5       5.2      2.4    36.1     10.0
4          40.5     17.5     7.8    74.8       32.0        31.0        5.5     4.9    41.4      20.2
54.4     18.5   13.4   86.3         54.9        34.0       5.8      8.4    48.2     34.6
60.7     18.5    19.3    98.5       78.9        37.9       5.8    12.1    5'.8      49.7
-7  _   18.5    24.3    42.8      105.0         -         5.8    15.3    21.1      66.1
-       18.5   29.0    47.5       119.0         -         5.8    18.3    24.1      75.0
C       18.5    31.7    50.2      129.8         -         5.8    20.0   2z5.8      81.8
10-29        -       18.5    33.0    51.5      135.2         -          5.8    20.8    26.6      85.2
30         -0o.0/   18.5    35.0  -36.5        145.2       -56.3/       5.8    20.8   -29.7     85.2
Economic Rate of Return:    19.45%               Economic Rate of Return:   24.15%
Area B (117,000 ha)                               Area C (62,000 ha)
Costs                Benefits                    Costs                Benefits
Farm                                             Farm
Year      Capital   0 &M   Labor   Total                   Capital   0 & M   Labor   Total
6.5      7.8     -      14.3        -           1.5       1.4      -       2.9      -
12.3      8.9     o.4    22.1        1.8         2.9       1.7      0.1     4.7      0.3
13.9      9.5     1.2    24.6        L      9    3.2       1.8      0.2     5.2      0.9
1 .0     10.1     2.4    27.5        9.9         3.5       1.9      0.5     5.9      1.9
R10.6    10.7     4.2    31.5       17.0         3.8       2.0      0.8     6.6       3.3
c   18.6  10.7    6.o    35.3      24.5          4.2       2.0      1.2     7.4      4.7
-   -   10.7     7.5    18.2       32.6         -         2.0      1.5     3.5      6.3
-       10.7     9.0    19.7       36.9         -         2.0      1.7    -3-7      7.1
10.7     9.8    20.5      40.2          -         2.0      1.9     3.9      7.8
-       10.7    10.2    20.9      41.9          -         2.0      2.0     4.o      8.1
-o        -27.4L/   10.7   10.2    -6.5         41.9        -6.3J/    2.0       2.0    -2.3       8.1
Economic Rate of Return:   13.55%                Economic Rate of Return:   12.35
I/ Incremental net value of production, without accounting for labor costs (Annex 11).
.'/ Residual value of project facilities.



ANNEX 14
Figure 1
I NDlA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Opportunity Cost CLurve for Farm Labor
B
5
4
D.~~~0 5                                                                                                                        5.
O   ._            ~~~~1.10       1 5         2. '         2.           3. )o        3. L5        4.0          4. i5       s.n
Farm Labor Demand (Mli 1lioii man-days/month)



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(RAJASTHAN)
Project Activity Diagram
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTVSEN               UtSIGN & CONSTRUCTION OF ROAD NSrNVORK
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT -
~   RRIGATION ANDAAI
ORArNAGE CIRCLES            DESIGN h CONOSIRIUCT ON OF DRAINAGE NETWORK                  INTOOUCTON OF VIARABANDI
0                                                                                                      REGULAR CPERAlOAN        
_ O U                            |   CONETRUCTION OF CONTROL STRUCTURES                           MAINTENANCE
SURVEY OF INDIA             AIRPHOIOGTAMETRY.
O     IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT                                        PLANNING OF
&i   LAND DEVELOPMENT                            RON-FAFM WORKS
u °                                             1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRELIMINAR/Y LAYOUT  |RVISION OF LAYOUTS|\
QC
_             ~~~~~LOAN DOCUEr               ADVANE               
RAJASTHAN LAND_                                                                                                   __ 
DEV ELOPMENU CORPORATION                                                                                                                                                 S              P    C_
uu  WiTR REVEN%UE DEFARTNENTI                                                           DISlCU'SSI;0N                                                                                       A 1  CMPETON _UL;TuRAL
Cu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES
L OA|WlfH FARMERS I!I      CERTIFICATES                          eCN
I      COMMERCIAL BANKS
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA                                                                                                   |UESIOIES FOR DISADVANTAGED FARMERS
COOPERATIVES AND                                                                                                                                                -OUTN
COOPERATIVES DEPARTMENT
___________________________                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPPLY  OF
COORDINATION OF INPUTS
I- Z    FARM INPUT SUPPLIERS
C'                                            A >i R I C_.     RA-    T E       .   E
AIw w   EXTENSION SERVICE                      A 
RESEARCH STATIONS                              A G R I C U L T U V A L R E S E A P C I



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR AND QUARTERS                       1974                        1975                                 1976                                  1977                                 1978                                  1979                                  1980
ITEM               TOTAL   UNIT    3,d0         4,r1O    1.5Q     2.dO      3,50    4.1,0      111      2S,40    3rdO     4150      1.O      2.do     3.d5      4ChQ     1 40      24.D    3,d0      4rhO      isrQ     2ndO      3rdO     4Ch0      1110     2e,O      3r40     4h50
IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE
Drannon        g & D e s i      48.5                          'OCOha                                                                                                            0.5 197   t   5 .ot   5  13  30  30  30  30 35
Csu nO 'O : . 0 1.0  |  1.5   .;    ..    t 3  2.0  2.7  - 2.0            2.5  |33.5                  2.5                           - .         3      2  3.2          .  ,.    3.5        3 S  |  5 0   t       .3I
Lor-g                    14       k~
C-CalC      y W1k,       9054                                  65 Os  65                            156                                 los 1.                                                                      15                                    169
12                                   28             C,.                    929300
Contro Stru_t-res        1 57
8                                    19                                   19                                   19                                    18                                    20
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT
Su-cy                    47    'o0o'h                1.0      1.6      2                            20       303.5                       3.6 1  4 0                  4.0       4 0      4.0                4          0       4
Pl--n,g & D-pg          48.5   '0009h '0'            0.9      1.0      1.                   5       1.5      .0        -.      2.5       2.5      30        3          0       303.0              30  5              39       35
00  10  19   13       20        27                20        25        30        ~       ~~~      ~~~      ~~~~~~                       ~~~      ~ 2.5  3.2  43  ,i  32  3.2  4.6  305  35  50
ROADS                                            1-.
6        ~        '4>17                                                   21                                     9
Steto H.gheaes           6        ker~                                                          
19                                    Is                                   2                                    30                                    3
Major Djot-t Roads      123       ke,                                                                                                   -30                                                       ~        --  
Other Dw-r,t Roa4s       40       km    4u0 
~~~~~~~~v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
V,lI1ge Roads            31       kr.-~                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
AFFORtESTATION                 1,00        600                                                              150202530
FERTILIZER   (D.livory) l
r7L-:7 --jKh.6f (-t) .......                                                                                                                                                                                 W.,Id 8-1,  85984R)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrl 6rr   6989



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ( RAJASTHAN)
Organization Chart - State Level
MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE
Agrieulture Produ.tcon                                                                                                               Secretary CAD
Functions                                                                                                                              CAD & WU
Agriculture                                                                                                                          Ground Water                          Additional A96Colt1-a
CAseraluves                                                                                                                          Dairy Developmrrnt                    Production Secret"rY
Anirnal Husbondry                                                                                                                    spaC*al Schemes                       fow Command Atoae
Sheep & Wool                                                                                                                         Drought Prone Area
Panchevst                                                                                                                            Command Are
Spca  ertary,                     Special Secretary,
! ArculturePnimal                        1nchayats                                                                                                           r                                                              I      D        S    &
HusAngdry Sheo & Aeav Secretary                                                                                         Deputy Se|ry.                           Duv Seretary,                            Deputy Secretary          Douht ron
wool, Cooprtysn                         of Pancray ts
Coopurytt DtSut I ecrecery                                                    ~DewlrctAr                                                                       Dopmem   nt    s ~DeAloemen t Arid Devr
Aninul Hutbendry          A<grDculture                                                                                              D     Do        nFjheCss Ctnel                         Commiii r
Sece CNart 8600
ati =                1=,                                                                                                                                                                                         Ground Wsto
|    irulture    l  l    Hutbanrjrd            i      uSheep          i  Ri eorhtivrCr o
CAD b  WUd  Comr D nd Areas Developnent and We                                              De Uvoimrtion
Wortld oankieco



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ( RAJASTHAN)
II                         flT7~~~~~~~~~~~ntrinisterial   oWrlnn
Other Ministries    |     .| Coor dinationCommittee                       .    .           Minister of Agriulture                                                            Gfvenmin
an D.epartrrent sfnI
See Chart 8599
S                                                                                               Secretary
State                                Command Area Development                       Rajasthan Land.,                       Agricultural
Agriculture     .................                  And                    ......... Development Corporation                  Refinance
Deparment                              Water Utilization Department                            RLDC  I                       Corporation
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    0CC
I  - 
r|............................... ...................... ......................           Chambal Command Area Authority                           RD C
Z                                                                                          Area Development Commissioner                            Chambal
Commercial
- :t-._.Banks
Chief Engineer.
Joint Drector                                          int Regis    f             Irrigation and
of Agriculture  ~ ~~                     Copertives              Land Development
Reseh                     E      nSee Chart 8601
Roads
Forestry                                                                     See Reference 3
Town Planning                             .
Water Supply
EduIcation                                                                                                                  ................   ..................FInr
HE.ath               i             Panchayats                    ........j.. ......................... ......
AniMal Husbandry
Social Welfare
Groundwater Development
Power
Command
...............- ..... - Coordination
-  -    - -  -   -    Flow of Investment Funds                                                                                                   World Bank --8600



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RAJASTHAN)
Organization Chart - Irrigation and Land Development
CHIEF ENGINEER, IRRIGATION
T                                                        AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION & DAINAGE CIRCLE                                                                         LAND DEVELOPMENT CIRCLE       
CONSTRUCTION      e     AD          P     A       URTIEY UNIT             PLANNING                   WOK                                          ADMINIC RATI ON             T HOPNSTATO
3 SUPERINTENDING ENGINEERS                                                                        1 SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER
10 EXECUTIVE ENGINEERS                                                                             1 LAND LEVELING ADVISER
ASSISTANT ENGINEERS                                                                                CHIEF SURVEYOR
SURVEYORS                                                                                        5 EXEFCUTiVE ENGINEERS
DRAFTSMEN                                                 SPECIFICATIONS                           ASSISTANT ENGINEERS
PATWARIS, ETC.                                                                                     SURVEYORS TeHlQESANkACOUT
DRAFTSMEN, ETC.                                             World MPNSERIOT



-   A            A       AA                   Ao.,> C    N A>    '5N .ADA6\ ZA6AL 7   Al'                                     000AA~\\~ 
PAK|5-Aa S I be e - aSiDg t~~~~~SZzq;ftes = ~~~ <\ - 51 H5n. Th EN DAM <TH -N 'A
IAD~~~~~~~~~AA~~~
'  ,   NAAAm A.'                 Almod   AAAtOAAA    Al AD Al~                                  'A    ItAAl'0 -
AA~   6       C0HI., cr '06 -                                                                 K,sSJBCN                                                           - 
|   i - . ia'''z,.,.,w.   I                               Tt                                                                                        tA    Ft' ]~~~~~A,   D- 
coc  1600                                                                                    k-/-                      '         <            Ce                  *-    r'  jN/ b>Xtg
1N~~~~ ~       ~ D 1 A                                                                            n                          1g     oh
p -1~~~~~~ - 
E-   g/                                                                                               D   AEPWrA   -. 15
11    ¼ X00 XD   R lc  ,?   A      D      AD    60      00      IDA                                             Si                                                                        'N 
D.
v                                                                                    A0
-A   ABwAA06                                                      A    ARBNKA
AA'    K                                                                     F                                      I  MACHAL ~~~~~~~~~~~n
W-W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA\cABcHA
INDIA   ,  F                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Pa sth~  060aIOKT






I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M    IbRD 10887
-e r                                                                                             INDIA
r~         Er    CHINA                                     Chambal Command Area Development Project (Rajasthq
<\¢ -.. IN sraet)                                                              SX.tAuTAN'-                                                                             | PROJECT AREA                         KafithOd.
i .t/      \1         $        -t/i.  / fl ,tA5
',RX,W7,Y41                   t~                                                                         NUMBERS AND NAMES 0'                                                                                       a
cirJAS                      //4 ff <  _ .                                        JPROJECT WORKS    CNFARM DEVEBLPSAENT AREAS.                            I                                                / /
Areas for on-form development   f                                               8 5                                                          '    t/l
-ii                                    5)' .-_R ,,                Canols reches tobe lined                                                                                                                    /        )
\oo         '           _ Cals ,ith new control structure  2)  TAWA-
Canols to be increasd, incapacity  l03    Ac~ 
Onains tSch,rn.tic only)             )
i  I N DI A                                           H - SANr LADEsH   -   Roods to be upgraded  (4) inO n                  n.nv                                            N
l                .-I                                         Roads to be cQrstrucled            ( -A FR
Eistig major canals r -ILA
Exisfing minor carols
Ml ~~~~~~~~- Ri-ers
Waterlogged oreos                                                                                           /
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Towns
C.LSal LANAA   _      m rsFn.Mrs       I           Roadlas /  MJ    f/Z|/
r . State boundaries                                   /j
IEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
tAns                                                               Saran
N   A~~~~N






IBRD 10888
N D IA                                                                                                             APRIL 197
23 no                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Chambal Command Area Development Project (Rajasthan)
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT, TYPICAL LAYOUT, KH-ERLI TAWARAN
Old property bonadures   Distributary canal        -      Ro.ds
New property boundaries    Watercurs
-                ~       ~      AIN  NO. I           .r I NewR border.strips            - -- Drain                  235.0-Contoors In-ter
Adutbepootonate -odule                            2-,
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~..,Toilascapt            -  -         7"I.2                                                            88
\.  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
\   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fI1
- - ~ ~ 3                                                                     ---      
DRAIN NO,.3    ~Bcy of 8B,,g(
100        200        300
METERS                                                                                                                                                           Ame I aon
0          ~500               1000--0mbcar
FEET~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   ."z0I                                                                                     L4 ANKCA 



