 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14824

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 12/02/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P084632                                                   Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Hydrology Project            Project Costs (US$M):                 135.05                   91.58
                         Phase II
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                   105.51                  91.58
      Sector Board:        Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               09/02/2004
                                                                Closing Date:            06/30/2012         05/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (35%); Sub-national government administration (25%); General
                           water; sanitation and flood protection sector (20%); Central government administration
                           (15%); Water supply (5%)
          Theme(s):        Water resource management (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
C.Y. Nunez-Ollero          George T. K. Pitman     Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 This project is the second phase of the Hydrology Project (1995-2004) that assisted eight central agencies of the
Government of India (GOI) and nine participating states to develop comprehensive, easily accessed and user-friendly
data bases covering all aspects of the hydrological cycle, including surface water and groundwater in terms of quantity
and quality and climatic measurements, particularly of rainfall. The Phase-II project extended project coverage to ten
central agencies and 13 states. The project objectives of Phase-II as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD,
page 6) and the Loan Agreement (page 20) are:

    "to extend and promote the sustained and effective use of the Hydrological Information System (HIS) by all
    potential users concerned with water resources planning and management , both public and private , thereby
    contributing to improved productivity and cost effectiveness of water -related investments in the project states ."

HIS is defined in the PAD as “an integrated water information system providing reliable, comprehensive, and timely
hydrological and meteorological data and consists of scientific, hydrological, and meteorological observation networks
for both surface and groundwater data; data processing and storage facilities; reliable data communication
arrangements and trained manpower for operations and user support.”

In line with IEG guidelines, this review assesses the objectives in the Financing Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 1 - Institutional Strengthening (appraisal estimate US$ 49.4 million, actual cost was US$ 45.4 million). This financed
data processing, storage software and hydrometric equipment; upgraded information technology hardware and
software in all 13 states and 8 central agencies; financed implementation support to the Hydrologic Information
System Coordinating Secretariat in raising awareness and disseminating knowledge. The 2009 Mid-Term Review
further specified (a) automating hydro-meteorological monitoring system in all participant states, (b) introducing
real-time water quality monitoring in the Ganga Basin, (c) developing real-time flood management and reservoir
operation system in 2 river basins, (d) developing centralized web-based software systems for data processing,
storage and dissemination, and (e) introducing advanced aquifer mapping techniques in 6 pilot watersheds to test the
efficacy of advance geophysical techniques for National Aquifer Mapping Program.

2 - Vertical extension in existing Phase -I project States (appraisal estimate US$ 59.0 million, actual cost was US$
32.5 million). This funded activities to further develop hydrological design aids and decision tools, and fund
agency-specific water management studies that lead to replicable cost-effective solutions. The nine states were
Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu)
and 8 central agencies (Ministry of Water Resources, Central Water Commission, Central Groundwater Board,
National Institute of Hydrology, Central Water and Power Research Station, India Meteorological Department, Central
Pollution Control Board, and Bakhra-Beas Management Board.

3 - Horizontal extension new Phase -II States (appraisal estimate US$ 26.7 million, actual cost was US$ 23.4 million).
This funded activities to upgrade data collection networks, data processing and management systems, fund agency
specific studies and train staff on the use of HIS. The four states were Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Puducherry, and
Punjab.

At the time of the 2009 Mid-term Review five additional activities were added: i) upgrading of the hydro-meteorological
monitoring system from a manual to an automated set-up for surface and groundwater and water quality in all the
states; ii) introduction of real-time water quality monitoring stations by the Central Pollution Control Board and the
Central Water Commission in the Ganga Basin; iii) development of centralized web-based software systems for data
processing, storage and dissemination; iv) development of a real-time flood management and reservoir operation
system for the Upper Krishna and Upper Bhima River Basins in Maharashtra; and v) introduction of advanced aquifer
mapping techniques including advanced airborne Transient Electro-Magnetic geophysical surveys in six pilot
watersheds to test the efficacy of advanced geophysical techniques for the country-wide National Aquifer Mapping
Program.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost. Total project cost was US$117.8 million, or 87% of the estimated cost US$135.6 million. The more than
half (55%) reduction in the costs of component 2 was because of partial completion of design aids for surface water,
three modules for water resource assessment; training components and tools for non-HP states; the dropping of three
planned purpose-driven studies; and the conversion of one purpose-driven study to fund 6 pilot projects on aquifer
mapping.
Financing. An IBRD Loan of US$104.98 million was approved and at closure, US$91.6 million was disbursed and
US$13.4 million was canceled.
Borrower Contribution .
US$ 29.5million was agreed at appraisal of which US $26.2 million (90%) was contributed.
Dates:
Effectiveness of the project was delayed from November 2004 to May 2006 and the original closing data was
extended by 20 months from August 2010 to June 2012. The closing date was further extended by 23 months in
March 2012 to allow sufficient time and technical assistance to establish, troubleshoot and commission the novel
technologies introduced post-MTR; overcome implementation delays in order to enable completion of activities
already started; and allow for more time to successfully carry out public awareness and data dissemination through
the establishment of websites by all agencies and organizing various forums.
The project was restructured (Level-2) thrice - in January 2009, March 2012, and February 2014. Each restructuring
updated percentages allocated to disbursement categories based on actual use of funds without changes to either the
development objective or total project cost.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial
The project development objectives addressed India's existing water development challenges. The diverse needs of a
growing population put a strain on access to fresh surface water while the quality and level of groundwater resources
were falling. Competing demands increasingly gave rise to disputes among users, including state governments.
Realizing this, the government shifted from isolated water resource development to a more comprehensive, river
basin context of water resource planning, development and management. This approach called for a sound hydrologic
database and Phase I of the Hydrologic Project created Hydrology Data User Groups (HDUGs), posting of the data
catalogues in the web sites, and introduced user payment for the demanded data. However, notwithstanding the
improvements made under HP-I, the HIS continued to be deficient in terms of both geographic coverage and modern
analytical tools, skilled manpower for hydrologic modeling, and quantitative and qualitative data analyses. The
objectives of the phase II project were thus relevant and addressed the deficiencies of Phase I: easily accessible HIS
and decision-support tools in water sector planning and management that would strengthen India's integrated water
resource management.
The government's new National Water Policy (2012) and 12th Five Year Plan (2012-2017) emphasize the need for a
robust, transparent national hydrologic database for ground and surface water resources management and planning.
The Plan calls for improved water management using improved water data/information, specifically: "(i) improved
systems for water data collection and management; (ii) improved flood forecasting and warning; and (iii) participatory
approach to ground water management based on aquifer mapping." In addition, the Plan foresees the preparation of
integrated State Water Plans using data from water resource assessments and modeling.

The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (2013-2017) states its overarching goals of economic growth, poverty
reduction and shared prosperity by focusing on integration, transformation, and inclusion. This project falls under a
cross-section of outcomes, including promoting regional integration (river basins), more systematic knowledge
exchange, devolving more responsibility on water to the states as well as recognizing the need for a strong focus on
agriculture and rural development.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial
The inputs and activities are sufficient to achieve the desired outcomes. Design of the Phase II project derived lessons
from Phase I project including: strengthening HIS coordination Secretariat, promoting the wider use of HIS, ensuring
retention of talent, and facilitating central agency participation in procurement. Other lessons include technical
improvements to strengthen water quality data collection and analyses; adopting benefit monitoring schemes using
academic institutions and external consultants; sustaining HIS network and instrumentation; customizing software;
and piloting procurement of new equipment prior to large-scale procurement. The results framework shows a logical
link between the objective and desired outcomes and identifies specific outputs per component. The design
modifications at the Mid-Term Review to upgrade the existing technology in HP I states was relevant.

There were three design shortcomings related to the practicalities of implementing an institutionally complex project.
For a project whose central idea was using integrated hydrologic data for better planning there were no activities to
facilitate integration of surface water and groundwater data collection and use within states – typically these were
managed independently. While there was provision for a Technical Assistance and Management Consultancy whose
primary task was to introduce modern techniques for enhancing the use and end-user value of hydrologic data, there
was no conditionality to ensure that the Consultancy would be used for that purpose. As a result the Consultancy was
only required to provide managerial advice on routine matters such as procurement. Given the magnitude of the
procurement task for the 31 implementing agencies more resources should have been mobilized for this activity. The
absence of such support activities caused funds to be cancelled towards the end of the project because contracts
could not be completed even after extending the period of implementation.



 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
    “To extend and promote the sustained and effective use of the Hydrological Information System (HIS) by all
potential users concerned with water resources planning and management, both public and private, thereby
contributing to improved productivity and cost effectiveness of water-related investments in the project states and
central agencies.”

There are three sub-objectives and achievement of each one follows:

(a) To extend the use of HIS to all 13 states, 10 central agencies, the public, and the private sector : Modest

Outputs:
    HIS was extended to 4 new states. HIS for the 2 new central agencies (Bakhra-Beas Management Board (BBMB)
     and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was incomplete - real time hydro-meteorological monitoring system
     was in place in BBMB but still only in the pilot stage in CPCB.
    Monitoring networks were upgraded and consolidated in 9 HP I states;
    Surface and groundwater reservoir sites were fully equipped and operational in real-time in 9 states and in
     non-real time in 12 states and 1 of 2 central agencies.
    Meteorological sites are fully equipped and operational in 11 states for real-time monitoring and in 12 states and
     1 central agency for non-real time monitoring.
    Groundwater observation wells were fully equipped and operational in 6 states for real-time monitoring and 13
     states and 1 central agency for non-real time monitoring.
    84 water quality laboratories were installed, covering all agencies, but none participated in Analytical Quality
     Control.
    Systems for data processing and storage were implemented in all 13 states and 1 (target 2) central agency.
    HIS data collection and processing are in place for use in reporting at the national level (e.g., yearbooks, water
     level scenario reports for drought assessments).

Outcomes:
    All Implementing Agencies have developed websites with HIS data (targets met).
    Inter-agency data was validated in 11 agencies in states and 1 of 2 central agencies. Generally, surface water
     agencies generally reported that the central Water Commission was slow or non-responsive regarding validation
     of the surface water data sent by the states. the India Meteorological Department was reportedly more
     responsive regarding validation of meteorological data, though its process was sub-optimal and time consuming
     (ICR page 33).
    3 of the 4 new states have completed their State Data Centers and one (Punjab) will be completed after project
     closure with its own resources. Only 1 of 2 central agencies have HIS in place. Implementing agencies in all 13
     states are equipped and have capacity to use and promote HIS and respond to data needs of Hydrological Data
     User Groups, the public, and the private sector. However, not all upgrading and strengthening of the existing and
     new monitoring networks were completed by project closure. Phase-1 agencies have not extended the
     configuration of their offices and data centers at state, division, and sub-division levels. This means some
     success but still a disappointing outcome considering that Phase- I already benefited from 8 years of HIS
     equipment, techniques, and training.
    Over a two-year period, there were 1,073 requests for surface water data with 888 requests in Maharashtra
     alone. There were 503 requests for groundwater data with 50 in Gujarat. The average response time varied
     considerably, from 2 days in response to surface water data requests in Kerala to 15 days in Odisha and 3 days
     for groundwater data in Goa to 20 days in Odisha. Odisha was part of Phase-I project and Goa part of Phase-II.

(b) To promote the effective use of the HIS in all Implementing Agencies : Modest

Outputs:
There are 21 implementing agencies in the 13 states, plus 10 central government implementing agencies.
    HIS Data Users Groups were organized in 13 (target met) states and for 17 of the 23 agencies. Five agencies
     had no meetings and nor did the central agencies. There were 42 meetings of groundwater users and 36 for
     surface water. Performance was uneven - Maharashtra met 40 times in one year on groundwater issues while
     most other agencies met at least once.
    Public awareness activities were undertaken in 17 agencies in 11 (target 13) states but none in the two central
     agencies. These consisted of marketing strategies to promote data dissemination, packaging data for specific
     requirements, use of various media, analysis of data requests, feedback from users and public awareness
     campaigns among NGOs. HIS awareness-raising tools included a regional workshop, a manual, and other visual
     tools, all of which were widely distributed. About 100 activities were reported for Andhra Pradesh surface water,
     Chhattisgarh and Odisha ground water, and over 300 for Maharastrah ground water. There were no activities
     noted for the central agencies.
    Requests for data were made to 17 agencies but there were no requests recorded for Pudacherry or for the
     central agencies.
    User satisfaction was surveyed by 8 agencies in 7 states. Six of the 13 states, including 2 new states, and both
     central agencies did not survey user satisfaction.
    Hydrologic design aids were not rolled out to participating agencies, and will likely be completed after project
     closure because this component started late and was redesigned toward the end of the project period. Hydrologic
     design practices are not yet standardized, and Hydrological Information Needs assessments are not
     systematically conducted. Even so, hydrological design aids were initiated - e-GEMS for ground water data
     storage and processing (deployed by February 2015), e-SWIS for surface water data storage and processing
     (commissioned in November 2014) and e-WQIS for water quality data expected to be on line by December 2014.
     Most of the hydrological design aids should mature after project close.
    Decision-support systems for planning were developed in all 9 HP I states for 13 river basins, 2 of which
     remained to be completed at the time the project closed.
    There were 31 (target over 50) purpose-driven studies completed in 11 states and 1 central agency.

Outcomes:
    The Government adopted a National Data Sharing and Accessibility Policy to promote the use of meteorological
     data (including HIS data) free of charge but the policy covers only the Central Water Commission and Central
     Ground Water Board, and not the India Meteorological Department which has a much larger data network. Some
     states have initiated data sharing through their respective websites, but some continue to charge for their data,
     limiting the use of HIS. In parallel to this project, the Government developed a web-based India Water Resources
     Information System or WRIS, a Ground Water Information System, and developed hydro-meteorological data
     dissemination policy in 2013. Government is also proposing a National Water Informatics Center in CWC to
     oversee HIS management and host India WRIS.
    Public awareness campaigns to promote HIS use was a "missed opportunity” (ICR, page 32). Most implementing
     agencies showed a lack of enthusiasm in using tools developed for this purpose. New states did not undertake
     awareness-raising activities because the implementation period was used mainly on ensuring that HIS was
     functioning in these new states.
    There were requests for data in 12 (target 13) states, none in the central agencies. Data users include local
     government departments and bodies, municipal corporations, water supply agencies, industries, farmers,
     nongovernmental organizations, consultants, individuals, academic researchers. Only 8 agencies and no central
     agency allowed authorized users to access HIS through the internet. The modest rating of this outcome rests on
     the potential use of HIS by the public and the private sector, as yet showing minimal impact.
    Despite the almost 21 years of project inputs (1994-2014) through the Phase-I and Phase-II projects there is
     limited HIS data applications for decision-support systems for planning, and their utilization is very uneven.
     Applications included seasonal reservoir planning in Maharashtra, water availability levels in Karnataka, water
     logging and critical water deficit zones in Karnataka to inform equitable water delivery to tributaries and
     sustaining ground water levels, and using assessments to augment water supplies in Pune and Kerala. HIS data
     was used also to guide operation schemes in Andra Pradesh (municipal water supply, drought monitoring),
     Gujarat (solid waste management, reservoir operations), Kerala (well drilling for farmers), and Maharashtra
     (hydropower generation, irrigation management). Six pilot surveys were conducted by CGWB to develop
     methodologies for large-scale aquifer mapping in support of a national program and their piloting continues.
    There is no systematic reporting of outcomes and very few results that reflect better decision-making for water
     resources or river basin management as a result on improved HIS systems.

(c) To ensure the sustained use of HIS : Modest

Outputs:
    All agencies established websites but only 8 agencies in 7 states (target 13) made their websites accessible to
     the public. Six states shared historical and real time hydro-meteorological and groundwater data in their websites.
     Only five states have HIS documentation and technical specifications.
    17 agencies of 21 agencies in 12 states and two central agencies undertook inter-agency data validation. Of the
     agencies doing this exercise, four agencies have yet to complete the task.
    HIS staff were hired and trained in 13 agencies in 13 states (target met) and 1 central agency. However, seven
     agencies give no details of staff trained. Only 9 of the 13 states report that they had retained staff with HIS
     experience.
    Post-project staffing and operation plans and budgets were prepared for 6 states and 1 central agency; budgets
     were approved for post-project incremental staff and operations and maintenance in 4 states; and post-project
     training programs were available in 6 states.

Outcomes:
    The evidence shows that for the most part, measures to ensure sustained use are few and uneven and have
     either not been initiated or remain incomplete and likely to mature only after project closure.Uneven data access
     and sharing also negatively affect effective use. One sub-component of hydraulic design aids was redesigned as
     late as 2013.
    The government proposes to support mainstreaming HIS by expanding HIS to the remaining states under HP
     Phase III project, under appraisal in 2015. The government also introduced a parallel web-based Water
     Resources Information System developed with its own resources to foster interest in Integrated Water Resource
     Management at river basin scale and facilitate inter-state cooperation and data sharing, a good example being
     the Bhakra-Beas Management Board’s MOU for sharing flood forecast and water allocation data with riparian
     states. The government has formed also a task force on Hydrological Information Needs Assessment which
     contributed to formulating India's new Hydro-meteorology Data Dissemination Policy (2013) that promotes free
     data sharing between state and central agencies and the public although the policy not yet including
     meteorological data from the India Meteorological Department.
    Most agencies reported training conducted under the project, availability of in-house trainers, and regular
     approval of training budgets. However, institutional memory is lost due to frequent staff transfers on government
     rotation and this loss requires repeated basic training for newly assigned staff.
    There remains a lack of water quality laboratories participating in Analytical Quality Control, a lack of inter-agency
     data validation, and an inadequate monitoring and evaluation framework.
    A post-project roadmap for HIS sustainability, including post-project staffing, operations and maintenance
     budgets and training plans is absent in many agencies. There were no training programs post-project for Goa and
     8 of the 9 Phase-I states.

5. Efficiency:
 Modest.

Economic and Financial Efficiency -
At Appraisal: A formal cost-benefit analysis was not undertaken at appraisal. Even so, the economic analysis
discussed the practical benefits fostered by the project such as reduced investment and maintenance costs in the
water sector, improved quality of drinking water, and enhanced flood management. It was intended at appraisal that
this project would implement an assessment mechanism to monitor data use and quantify benefits using (i) systematic
registration and semi-annual analysis of data requests, (ii) documentation of data use through interviews, (iii) case
studies to analyze HIS benefits in each state, and (iv) thematic and global consolidation of case studies at the national
level.
At Closing: No traditional cost-benefit analysis was conducted and the systemic assessment of project benefits
proposed at appraisal was not undertaken. The ICR, however, argues that the investment was beneficial based upon
a few random samples and anecdotal evidence. These include cost-effectiveness from increased efficiency in design
(e.g., smaller safety margins in flood structures) or operations (e.g., improved synchronization of releases from dams
prior to arrival of flood peak using predicted inflows and hence, reducing investment costs to irrigation) of water
resource projects using good data from HIS. A proxy cost-benefit analysis also showed (using simplified assumptions
and speculative outcomes) reasonable qualitative assertions such as reduced investment costs of irrigation and flood
control works, reduced maintenance costs in the water sector at the national/central, state/basin, and
project/sub-basin levels.
Administrative and Operational Efficiency
There were inefficiencies in administration and operations due to internal bureaucratic processes with the many states
and central government institutions. This delayed procurement, mobilization of key contracts and slowed
disbursements. A multi-criteria cost-effectiveness analysis (ICR Annex 3) provides an estimate of how effectively
agencies’ budgets were utilized: 63% were scored satisfactory, 31% moderately satisfactory and 6% unsatisfactory.
The project, designed to be implemented over six years, took just over 10 years to complete. Delayed effectiveness
necessitated a 19-month extension to which another 23 months were added because of subsequent administrative
inefficiencies. Even then 13% of the financing was cancelled because contracted works could not be completed in
time. The remaining works are to be completed with states' own resources.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives and of design are substantial. Evidence of achievement of the three sub-objectives are
uneven and thin and the efficacy of each is rated modest. There was no formal evaluation of efficiency. Delays and
slow bureaucratic processes caused cancellation of some of the financing and efficiency is rated modest. Together,
these ratings reveal significant shortcomings in the operation's achievement of its objectives and in its efficiency.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Technical risk. Incomplete activities could be jeopardized because there was a significant spill-over of financial
commitments beyond project closure. Hardware and software malfunction risks are addressed as procurement
contracts specified long term (5-7 years) maintenance contracts that included extended 2-3 year warranties on
equipment and service. Risks associated with software issues are also mitigated by centralizing licensing terms. Risk
to readiness to launch customized software is mitigated by adopting web-based applications, centralized database
software management, and long-term contracts with providers.
Financial risk. Given that many of the HIS applications are proprietary software under expensive foreign currency
license, there is a moderate risk that such licenses could be allowed to expire. There is also a risk that availability of
budgets to sustain outcomes and training to overcome routine staff turnover may be inadequate. The 2013
Hydro-metereological Data Dissemination Policy calls for data to be shared at no cost to users – the implications of
this for state budgets does not appear to have been examined.

Institutional risk . These arise from capacity to manage, share, and use HIS data at all levels of government and end
users. Ownership of the HIS philosophy is very uneven across the project’s agencies and states. Only 6 of the 13
states have budget lines for post-project incremental staff, and only 7 states have budget lines for post-project
operations and maintenance. Adequate performance of HIS to meet demand for data was expected to be mitigated by
public awareness campaigns, community-based ground water management, and adoption of real-time data for flood
and drought management but these public outreach/awareness campaigns were not very effective.

On a more positive note, the 2012 National Water Policy seeks to establish a permanent HIS cell that would support
the pursuit of a single window solution to a comprehensive, authoritative, and consistent national hydrologic database
for ground and surface water resource management and planning. The institutional risks are expected to be
addressed in the design of the third phase of the project which the government has requested to cover the rest of the
country. Phase-III is under preparation in 2015.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    As a follow-on project, appraisal incorporated the lessons learned from Phase-I but paid too little attention to
the government’s disfavor of technical assistance, particularly from external sources, and the use of Loan
financing for this purpose. Lessons learned were incorporated into the design of the project (such as strengthened
procurement arrangements and developing benefit monitoring schemes), but institutional shortcomings were not
taken seriously enough. Institutional assessment was uneven given the mix of existing and new states to the
Phase-II project, their unfamiliarity with overseas procurement and the use of foreign consultants. For a project
whose raison d’etre was integrated water resources data use, the omission of modest institutional reform to
reduce the large number of implementing agencies and have unified water data agencies at state level was a
significant shortcoming. While the complexity and wide geographic scope of the project was recognized by
specifying a Technical Assistance and Management Consultancy, inadequate conditionality effectively nullified
this essential input. Given the scope and institutional complexity of the project supervision planning was too
optimistic. Little thought was given to translating effective use of HIS systems to development outcomes.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements could have better specified measurable indicators to assist in project
implementation and correlating outcomes and objectives.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Supervision recognized the need to address delay in startup due to government's slow internal processes. The
loan agreement specified two mid-term reviews but supervision did not use this opportunity to undertake a second
review to follow-up on progress after the first Mid-Term Review in 2009. Candor in performance reporting was
evident when closing the project was considered prior to the MTR that outlined corrective measures to increase
the pace of implementation and disbursement. Even then, rather than simplify the project and focusing on
improving performance in lagging states, the MTR introduced more complex and specialist data application
modeling. The review could have been used also to improve the results framework with more specific and
measurable outcome indicators. On a more positive note, the Bank was pro-active and successful in mobilizing
bi-lateral technical assistance grants to mitigate the government’s reluctance to use the Loan for this purpose. At
project close, 13% of the funds were cancelled and some activities were incomplete.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
       The government requested Phase II immediately following the completion of Phase I in 2003. Yet the
effectiveness of Phase II was delayed by 18 months awaiting approval loan by the Expenditure Finance
Committee of the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, thus signaling a lack
of coordination and weak ownership. Procurement talent cultivated under Phase I had been allowed to dissipate
and this led to the early sluggish performance. Generally, administrative and procedural bottlenecks within central
and many state governments hindered project execution.

   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Twenty-eight (29) agencies in 13 states and 10 central government agencies implemented the project. The
performance of all 29 is difficult to rate as one and the ICR presents a methodology for rating the budget
performace all agencies. IMD opted out of the Project in the early stages of Project implementation. Performance
by implementing agencies was uneven (both at the central and state levels. Some readily committed resources to
meet agreed-upon deliverables, minimized staff turnover, while others were less committed and assigned tasks to
staff outside of the project. Performance of the two new Phase-II central agencies was uneven. Neither conducted
public awareness campaigns. One had a training program for post-project period and had 100% of staff trained in
HIS, the other did not report any. Procurement also affected performance by causing delays because most
agencies were new to procuring quality-based international consultancies, and this problem was exacerbated by a
limited pool of qualified bidders, and the initial shortage of staff with IT and water skills needed to determine
contract specifications. Many of the implementing agencies heeded the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review
and decentralized activities to untangle central level bottlenecks, mobilized key consultancy contracts, and
rewarded good performers.

States with a combined surface and groundwater department appear to have performed better than states with
separate departments. Important factors determining agency performance include cooperation and support from
senior management and frequency of staff turnover. There was a strong correlation between agency performance
and the importance assigned to HIS by the higher echelons in the agencies. In poorly performing states, there was
often lack of staff motivation, inadequate staffing, lack of understanding and commitment to HIS by
decision-makers, and thus typically lack of priority assigned to the Project by senior management. Himachal
Pradesh set a good example by maintaining leadership with the same official despite his promotion and transfer.
Similarly, leadership in Kerala demonstrated how decision-support systems can be made useful in water
resources planning. Conversely, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and KarnatakaGW suffered from varied
oversight of senior management. Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Goa and Puducherry witnessed minimal
turnover of key staff, while project implementation in Odisha and Karnataka-GW suffered from large staff turnover
and inadequate staffing.

Implementation gradually accelerated until project closure. At close, four years later than planned, 13% of the
funds were cancelled because the remaining contracts could not be completed in time following the initial
procurement delays.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Design was inadequate and the focus of M&E was largely on performance tracking including meeting physical and
financial targets, systematically registering and analyzing data requests, and documenting data use. It was intended
also that monitoring and assessment would cover the operational performance of HIS, and feedback from Hydrology
Data User Groups and trained staff. Monitoring and assessment mechanism to report on the project's socio-economic
benefits was proposed including analysis of benefits from the use of HIS, and consolidating case studies at the
national level. Generally, however, M&E lacked an outcome focus and had no mechanisms to track and assess
internal learning from capacity-building, and the effective use of HIS systems. It was planned that management
consultants would develop monitoring mechanisms and indicators, train staff in its use and support its implementation
over a specified time period.
 b. M&E Implementation:
   The designed M&E was not implemented. While the MIS was developed, the international water sector MIS
specialist was not fielded and this lacuna proved detrimental to monitoring of results and outcomes. M&E focused on
tracking agencies’ performance through simple metrics: (i) percentage completion of annual work program; (ii) size of
work program; (iii) proactivity in procurement of work program; (iv) submission of financial information; and (v) staffing.
Studies on benefits from the use of HIS and user satisfaction surveys were not undertaken.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Semi-Annual Progress Reports tracked mainly the progress of physical and financial inputs and the completion of
activities in the Project Implementation Plan.

    M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




    11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a Category "C" project under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. Only minor civil
works consisting of small buildings were expected to be built on public lands, as was done under Phase-I. No other
safeguard policies were triggered. The agencies relied on engineering firms for construction, campsite management
and safety. The ICR (page 9) states that compliance with safeguard policies was satisfactory.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management : The National Water Academy developed a web-based financial management reporting
system that was used by all implementing agencies to meet Bank requirements. Most agencies submitted timely
Statement of Expenses. Lessons learned from the earlier phase informed the adoption of adequate financial
management systems and procedures. Accounting procedures and financial reporting were standardized. Financial
management capacity at the state level was found to be adequate. The ICR did not provide information on compliance
with audit requirements. The Operations Portal indicates that some audit reports (some overdue) were received, but
noted that the BBMB audit report was "qualified."

Procurement: Expertise fostered under the Phase-I was no longer available by the start of Phase-II. Procurement
challenges included delayed mobilization of a procurement specialist, first-time use of quality-based, centralized
procurement, inexperience with international consultancies, sophisticated equipment, and shortage of qualified
bidders. At the Bank's initiative, some technical and commercial training were provided to address these
shortcomings. Even so, meeting these challenges delayed procurement and slowed the delivery of the work program.


    c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
.

    d. Other:



    12. Ratings:                           ICR                IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                        Outcome: Moderately              Moderately              There were significant shortcomings in
                                 Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory          the operation's achievement of its
                                                                                 objectives and in its efficiency.
            Risk to Development Negligible to Low        Moderate                Licenses for proprietary expensive
                       Outcome:                                                  software used in HIS applications could
                                                                                 be allowed to expire. Staff rotation
                                                                                 allied with very uneven post-project
                                                                                 training may jeopardize technical
                                                                                 sustainability.
                Bank Performance: Moderately             Moderately              Appraisal was deficient, particularly on
                                 Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory    institutional issues. There were missed
                                                                              opportunities during the triple
                                                                              restructuring and the 2009 Mid-Term
                                                                              Review to refine the indicators to
                                                                              monitor and evaluate the project.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately        Very uneven ownership and
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    performance among the states.
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR draws five lessons. The three most important with some editing are:
  For technically innovative and institutionally complex projects such as the establishment of HIS across India ,
    a long-term programmatic and demand - driven approach, rather than “a one -size fits all approach ,” is
    required. A demand-driven approach enhances the likelihood for support from top management and makes it
    more likely that outcomes will be achieved in a sustainable manner. Under future operations of this nature, it
    may be better to offer implementing agencies a balanced menu of project components from which they can
    select options on a flexible as-needed basis within broad budget allocations.
    Integrated water resources management and river basin management requires integrated and coordinated
     leadership from relevant Central Government agencies . The scope of data and information collected under
     HIS needs to be expanded to reflect inter-sectoral interests in water and improve climate forecasts to enable
     improved flood forecasting and seasonal planning of agriculture and irrigation.
    Surface and groundwater resources are intricately linked through the hydrological cycle and their effective
     planning and management requires integration of sub -sector institutions at state and river basin level . The
     continuation of separate surface water and groundwater institutions in most of India’s states creates
     coordination problems and causes high transaction costs.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICRR is thorough and is supported by good annexes. Readability is made low, however, by the excessive use of
acronyms. In addition, the quality of the evidence is very uneven and its major focus is on recording outputs, not
outcomes. The main text is far more sanguine on the outcomes recorded than the output/outcome evidence presented
in Table A.3; some of the findings are at odds with the evidence; and there is a blurring of the difference between
agency and state accomplishments. Some of the key project dates in the ICRR are not correct and the number of
agencies participating does not agree with the number stated at appraisal.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
