Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H194 -AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Support for Institution Building) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 15, 2005  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H194 -AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 15, 2005, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty five million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,300,000) (
“Grant”) to assist in 
financing the Program. 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
Page  3
-
2
-
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part of the Program, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration is that the event specified in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has 
been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association  
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
 
/s/ Anwar-ul-Haq Ahady 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
 
/s/ Jean Mazurelle 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient’s cabinet has adopted a supplemental budget for its Fiscal Year 1384, 
which includes an adequate financing and fiscal framework reflecting the sources for financing 
the Recipient’s budget deficit. 
 
2. 
The Recipient’s cabinet has adopted a medium-term fiscal framework which includes:  
(i) four-year projections of revenues, expenditures, fiscal deficit and sources for financing the 
said deficit; and (ii) specific fiscal policy actions sustaining the four-year projections referred to 
in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has, as part of its public administrative reforms: (i) published in its official 
gazette a new Civil Service Law; (ii) maintained the increase in the number of un-uniformed 
central government employees except teachers at a number below 10,000; (iii) made 
individualized salary payments to 15,000 government employees; (iv) placed 15,000 government 
staff positions under an elevated pay-scale in accordance with the PRR Program; and (v) 
processed more than 600 recruitments for senior positions following a merit-based process. 
 
4. 
 The Recipient has, as part of its public financial management reforms: (i) taken adequate 
steps to bring operations and maintenance expenditures ineligible for ARTF financing, to a ratio 
(as a percentage of expenditures monitored by the ARTF Monitoring Agent) below 35%; (ii) 
maintained wage expenditures ineligible for ARTF financing at a ratio (as a percentage of 
expenditures monitored by the ARTF Monitoring Agent) below 10%; and (iii) published in its 
official gazette the Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law and the Procurement Law. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has, in the context of its financial sector reforms: (i) issued fourteen (14) 
commercial banking prudential regulations; (ii) published in the Da Afghanistan Bank financial 
statements for its Fiscal Year 1382; and (iii) licensed twelve (12) banking organizations. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has, in the context of its program to strengthen the monitoring and 
evaluation of health delivery, completed a baseline evaluation of health service delivery 
performance. 
 
7. 
The Recipient has completed a census of teachers. 
 
8.  
The Recipient’s MOF has prepared a list of SOEs categorized in accordance with its SOE 
Reform Strategy. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
B. 
Allocation of Grant Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.   
 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Proceeds
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account 
(“Deposit Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into the 
Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is September 30, 2006. 
Page  7
-
6
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.   
Definitions 
 
1. 
“ARTF” means the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund established in March 2002 to 
support the recurrent and capital costs of the Recipient and to finance priority 
reconstruction projects and programs, which is administered by the Association and 
jointly managed by the Association, the United Nations Development Programme, the 
Asian Development Bank and the Islamic Development Bank. 
 
2. 
“ARTF Monitoring Agent” means the independent firm contracted by the Association as 
administrator of ARTF, to monitor the procurement of goods and services, review and 
recommend approval of withdrawal applications and monitor all expenditures financed 
by ARTF grant funds. 
 
3. 
“Civil Service Law” means the Recipient’s Law No. 861 dated September 11, 2005, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, which introduces the principle of merit-
based recruitment, and provides for, among other things, the establishment of IARCSC, 
an appointments board and an appeals board.  
 
4. 
“Da Afghanistan Bank” means the Recipient’s central bank. 
 
5. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C. 1 of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.   
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Page  8
-
7
-
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
go
ldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or of recipient of the Financing proceeds during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on March 21 of each 
calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
 
9. 
“IARCSC” means the Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service 
Commission established and operating under the Civil Service Law. 
 
10. 
“MOF” or “Ministry of Finance” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance or any 
successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Law” means the Recipient’s Law No. 865, dated October 25, 2005, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, which, among other things, sets out procedures 
for transparent and competitive procurement and specifies clear accountabilities in 
procurement. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated October 25, 2005 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program, such Program to exclude all aspects related to 
the promotion of security and rule of law. 
 
13. 
“PRR Program” means the Recipient’s Priority Reform and Restructuring Program. 
 
14. 
“Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law” means the Recipient’s Law  
No. 856, dated June 27, 2005, as the same may be amended from time to time, which, 
among other things, specifies clear accountabilities in financial management and sets 
accounting standards in line with international best practice. 
 
15. 
“SOE” means State Owned Enterprise. 
 
16. 
“SOE Reform Strategy” means the strategy adopted by MOF for the reform of State 
Owned Enterprises, under which SOEs shall either remain under the Recipient’s 
ownership or be divested by the Recipient. 
 
17. 
“Treasury Single Account” means an account or set of linked accounts opened and 
maintained by MOF in the Recipient’s central bank, through which the government’s 
collection of revenues and payment transactions are made. 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  10
-
9
-
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.06 (relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted 
in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
““Eligible Expenditure” means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
