Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STATE 
 
Report No. : AB1845 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Support for Institution Building II 
Region 
South Asia Regional Office 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P090829 
Borrower(s) 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
September 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 20, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 6, 2005 
1.  Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Country background.
Afghanistan is one of the world’s poorest countries.  After two decades of 
conflict, significant progress has been made to secure peace and start the reconstruction of the 
country.  Growth has reached 29 percent in 2002, 16 percent in 2003, and 8 percent in 2004.  It is 
projected to reach 14 percent in 2005.  About 4.2 million Afghan refugees have returned to their 
home country.  Almost 5 million children are now back in school and the coverage of basic health 
service has been greatly expanded.  The Government has initiated important structural reforms, 
including a successful currency reform, and is making progress to better manage public finance.  
A
new Constitution has been approved in January 2004 and Presidential and Parliamentary 
elections were held in October 2004 and September 2005 respectively.   
 
Numerous challenges remain.  Security has improved but remains volatile.  Opium production 
and trading remains a major problem.  The Government’s challenge is to extend its reform 
program beyond Kabul and to implement reforms that, beyond the initial steps of state building, 
will generate broad based growth. 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.
The Government laid out its reform strategy in the 
National 
Development Framework 
in April 2002 and reaffirmed it in the 2004 document 
Securing 
Afghanistan’s Future
 and in the 2005 document 
Accelerating Afghanistan’s Development 
 which 
was presented by the new Government, formed after the 2004 elections, in April 2005.  To 
implement its strategy, the Government needs multi-year financial support that is not linked to 
specific projects, but that can support its entire reform program.  A development policy grant is 
proposed, at the request of the Government, to sup
port the Government’s entire budget including 
recurrent costs (which pay, for example, civil servants salaries), as well as development projects 
that are viewed as a priority, yet not fully financed by donors, including small-size rehabilitation 
projects, and operations and maintenance.  
 
2. Proposed Objective 
 
The overall objective of this project, which is the second in a series of operations, is to continue 
deepening, broadening, and sustaining the reforms underway in the areas of public administration 
and fiscal management.  These reforms are at the core of the Government’s objective to build an 
Page  2
accountable and effective state and are critical for poverty reduction to be effective.  This 
operation complements a series of IDA projects aiming at strengthening public finance 
management, raising fiduciary standards, and supporting public administration reform, which is 
critical also to ensure that a growing share of donors’ assistance is channeled through the budget.   
The operation also supports the implementation of reforms that lead to a more efficient allocation 
of fiscal resources in the areas of human development (health and education) and private sector 
development (investment climate, financial sector, and state-owned enterprises).  This operation 
complements separate investment and technical assistance operations in the areas of human and 
private sector development, with the combined set of operations seeking to achieve 
comprehensive sectoral reforms. 
 
3.  Preliminary Description
 
The Grant of [SDR xx.x million] (US$80 million equivalent) is the second of a series of 
operations aimed at supporting the implementation of the Government of Afghanistan’s medium-
term development strategy within the context of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.  The 
series of Programmatic Support for Institution Building (PSIB) operations, of which the proposed 
Grant is the second, provides rolling support to the Government’s development strategy with each 
operation specifying a set of triggers which, when met, provide the basis for proceeding with the 
next operation.   
Since the last operation (PSIB I which went to the Board in July 2004), presidential and 
parliamentary elections have taken place and a new Government has been formed.  The 
Government has made progress in implementing important economic reforms outlined in the 
Project Document for PSIB I.  Achievements include a significant improvement in fiduciary 
standards and a modernization of the legal framework in the areas supported by PSIB I.  The 
proposed Second Programmatic Support for Institution Building builds on these achievements.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies 
 
The proposed Grant supports a number of economy-wide policies and institutions.  The reforms 
supported by the proposed Grants were reviewed and assessed as unlikely to cause significant 
effect on the country’s environment, forests, and other natural resources.  During implementation, 
where possible and applicable, the proposed Grant will follow the Social and Environmental 
Safeguards Framework applied to other IDA-financed projects.  To achieve this, IDA, together 
with other donors, will assist the newly created National Environment Protection Agency (NEPA) 
in developing a Capacity Building Program for Social and Environmental Management in 
implementing ministries, including MoF and other concerned ministries under PSIB II. 
 
5.  Financing  
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
IDA Grant 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
Page  3
6.  Contact Point:
 
Task Team Leader:  
Stéphane Guimbert 
 
The World Bank Group 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
MSN MC10-1004 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: 202-458-9030 
 
Facsimile:  202-522-0356 
 
Email:sguimbert@worldbank.org 
 
