Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4706 - IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 28, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4706 - IN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 28, 2003, between INDIA, acting by its President 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the State of Tamil Nadu (Tamil Nadu) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to Tamil Nadu, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Tamil 
Nadu (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CEA” means a Consolidated Environmental Assessment, dated 
March 2003, issued by Tamil Nadu, providing a sector-wide review of environmental 
issues arising under the Project, including evaluation of generic environmental risks and 
impacts, analysis of possible alternatives, and identification of potential management and 
mitigation measures;  
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Concession Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
 
paragraph 19 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Concession Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Core Road Network” means all roads and other related structures 
classified as state highways or major district roads as notified in the official gazette of 
Tamil Nadu, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“EMP/RU” means an environmental management plan issued pursuant to 
the CEA, describing a program of environmental actions, measures and policies 
governing any one or more contract packages for road upgradation or construction, or 
bypass construction, under Part A of the Project, and designed to maximize the benefits 
and manage the potential adverse impacts arising under Part A of the Project; 
 
(g) 
“ERMP/RM” means the environmental and resettlement management 
plan, dated March 2003, issued pursuant to the CEA, describing a program of social and 
environmental actions, measures and policies governing generally all road maintenance 
and safety works activities under Part B of the Project, and designed to maximize the 
benefits accruing under the Project, avoid or mitigate any adverse impacts arising 
thereunder and, in the case of PAPs, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided 
altogether, provide such PAPs with alternative opportunities to enhance or restore their 
livelihoods; 
 
(h) 
“EMP/RS” means the environmental management plan, dated 
March 2003, issued pursuant to the CEA, describing a program of environmental actions, 
measures and policies governing the establishment of resettlement sites for the benefit of 
PAPs, and designed to maximize the benefits and manage the potential adverse impacts 
arising under the Project; 
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement. 
 
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s and Tamil Nadu’s fiscal 
year, beginning on April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year; 
 
(k) 
“HD” means the Highways Department of Tamil Nadu, or any successor 
thereto; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(l) 
“Institutional Strengthening Action Plan” or “ISAP” means the 
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan, as defined in Tamil Nadu’s Government 
Order No. 86, dated May 2, 2003, giving details of a time-bound action plan designed to 
strengthen the policies, strategies, processes and human resource management of HD; 
 
(m) 
“Mid-Term Review” or “MTR” means the mid-term review referred to in 
paragraph (17) (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“NGO” means non-governmental organization; 
 
(o) 
“Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are adversely affected by the 
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a 
result of the Project, and who is declared accordingly eligible to compensation or other 
assistance under the R & R Policy; 
 
(p) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Tamil 
Nadu of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan, 
dated May 2003, giving details of all operational guidelines and procedures as shall have 
been agreed with the Bank for the implementation, monitoring and supervision of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Plan; 
 
(r) 
“Project Management Team” or “PMT” means the Project Management 
Team referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“R & R” means resettlement and rehabilitation; 
 
(t) 
“R & R Policy” means the policy document entitled “Tamil Nadu Road 
Sector Project: Social Impacts and Resettlement - Principles and Policy Framework”, 
describing the principles and approaches to be followed under the Project to minimize 
and mitigate social and economic impacts caused thereunder, and endorsed by Tamil 
Nadu under G.O. Ms. No. 193, dated August 10, 1998; 
 
(u) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means the Resettlement Action 
Plan, dated March 2003, issued by Tamil Nadu pursuant to the R & R Policy, and 
describing a program of actions, measures and policies designed to avoid or minimize 
Page  5
-
4
-
any adverse impacts or hardship to PAPs as a result of the Project or, if such adverse 
impacts or hardship cannot be avoided altogether, provide such PAPs with alternative 
opportunities to enhance or restore their livelihoods;  
 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(x) 
“Subprojects” means the program of construction, upgrading and 
operation activities referred to under Part A.4 of the Project; 
 
(y) 
“Tamil Nadu” means the State of Tamil Nadu, a state of India, or any 
successor thereto. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred forty eight million Dollars ($348,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of 
the Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Tamil Nadu to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Tamil Nadu therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Tamil 
Nadu in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the states of India. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Tamil Nadu 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
Page  8
-
7
-
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
,
or
statements of 
expenditure, as the case may be, submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
as a result of events that have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Tamil 
Nadu will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
Page  9
-
8
-
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Tamil Nadu, and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu, and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 953-31-66175 
FINE 
IN 
91-11-2309-2511 
 New 
Delhi 
91-11-2309-2477 
 
91-11-2309-3133 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India,
 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
/s/ B.P. Misra 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Michael 
Carter 
Country Director 
India 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Part A
:
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
 
         % of 
 
Loan Allocated 
  Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
1. Civil 
works: 
 
(a)  under Parts A.1 
309,170,000 
80% 
 
and B of the Project 
 
(b)  under Part A.3 (c) 
2,260,000 
90% 
 
of the Project 
 
2. 
Goods 
3,660,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and  
 
80%
of local  
 
expenditures for other  
 
items procured locally 
 
3. (a) 
Consultants’ services 
19,450,000 
90% 
 
(b) NGO services and 
 
training under  
 
Part A.3 (a) of the Project 
2,480,000 
100% 
 
4. 
Subprojects 
7,500,000 
100% of amount  
 
paid by Tamil Nadu 
 
5. 
Fee 
3,480,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 348,000,000
Page  12
-
11 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “NGO services and training” means services to be provided under 
the Project by NGOs, training providers and other educational and research institutions, 
which are tax exempt under the laws of the Borrower.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 31, 2002; 
and 
 
(b) 
in respect of payments under Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Part for expenditures under Subprojects: 
 
(i) 
unless Tamil Nadu has adopted a policy framework, acceptable 
to the Bank, governing public-private partnership in the 
construction, upgrading and operation of road infrastructure; and  
 
(ii) 
otherwise than on the basis of, and in accordance with the terms 
of, the respective Concession Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing 
less than $3,000,000 each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 
equivalent each; (iii) consultants’ services under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each, in the case of consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each, in the case 
of individual consultants; and (v) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-
12 -
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other information 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall cause Tamil Nadu to submit, 
to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
 
Part B
:
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
Page  14
-
13 -
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  15
-
14 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed $150,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts that in the aggregate do not exceed the said Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
Page  16
-
15 -
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  17
-
16 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 
of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
17 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and sustainability of the 
Core Road Network of Tamil Nadu. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Road Upgrading and Construction of Bypasses
1. 
Implementation of civil works for the upgrading and widening of about 750 km 
of existing Core Road Network, and construction of bypasses. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the preparation of designs, 
supervision of civil works and management of the Project. 
 
3. 
Implementation of a program of R & R and environmental management activities 
set forth in the RAP, EMP/RU, ERMP/RM and EMP/RS, including:  
 
(a) 
provision of technical advisory services to support implementation of  
R
&
R
activities, HIV/AIDS awareness activities, and training and monitoring activities;  
 
(b) 
procurement of R & R and EMP-related goods, and 
 
(c) 
implementation of R & R works, and environmental management and 
mitigation works ancillary to civil works. 
 
4. 
Preparation and implementation of a program of construction, upgrading and 
operation of state roads and bridges (Subprojects) through public-private partnership. 
 
Part B
:
Road Maintenance and Safety Works
1. 
Implementation of periodic maintenance works covering about 2,000 km of state 
roads, using conventional contracts and a limited number of pilot performance-based 
maintenance contracts, including technical review of the implementation of conventional 
contracts, and the design, supervision and evaluation of performance-based maintenance 
contracts. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of civil works for the implementation of engineering and traffic 
management measures to enhance road safety at selected high priority black spot 
locations, including minor improvement works and installation of road signs and 
markings along accident-prone corridors, implementation of environmental management 
Page  19
-
18 -
and mitigation works ancillary to civil works, and technical advisory services for the 
identification of black spots, design of interventions and evaluation of impacts. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening and Policy Development
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of goods as needed to: 
(a) implement the ISAP; (b) advise Tamil Nadu in the area of public-private partnership 
in infrastructure development; (c) develop and install a road management system,  
(d) develop and implement a departmental information technology system, including 
needs analysis; (e) develop a road safety policy and action plan, and strengthen road 
safety management, including establishment of an accident data recording, analysis and 
reporting system; (f) strengthen Tamil Nadu’s environmental management capacities;  
(g) conduct road user satisfaction surveys; (h) assist in institutional restructuring, 
including provision of appropriate training to HD staff; and (i) carry out pre-investment 
studies for future investments in the road sector. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  20
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
March 15, 2009 
10,165,000 
September 15, 2009 
10,255,000 
March 15, 2010 
10,345,000 
September 15, 2010 
10,440,000 
March 15, 2011 
10,535,000 
September 15, 2011 
10,625,000 
March 15, 2012 
10,720,000 
September 15, 2012 
10,820,000 
March 15, 2013 
10,915,000 
September 15, 2013 
11,010,000 
March 15, 2014 
11,110,000 
September 15, 2014 
11,210,000 
March 15, 2015 
11,310,000 
September 15, 2015 
11,410,000 
March 15, 2016 
11,515,000 
September 15, 2016 
11,615,000 
March 15, 2017 
11,720,000 
September 15, 2017 
11,825,000 
March 15, 2018 
11,930,000 
September 15, 2018 
12,040,000 
March 15, 2019 
12,145,000 
September 15, 2019 
12,255,000 
March 15, 2020 
12,365,000 
September 15, 2020 
12,475,000 
March 15, 2021 
12,585,000 
September 15, 2021 
12,700,000 
March 15, 2022 
12,815,000 
September 15, 2022 
12,930,000 
March 15, 2023 
13,045,000 
September 15, 2023 
13,170,000
 
