Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2145 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/13/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Iraq 
Project ID: P098979 
Project Name: Iraq: Strengthening Policy Making for Poverty Reduction, Employment 
Generation and Safety Net Development 
Task Team Leader: Susan R. Razzaz 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 28, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: April 20, 2006 
Managing Unit: MNSED 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: General public administration sector (100%) 
Theme: Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting (P);Other economic management 
(P);Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S);Improving labor markets (S);Social 
safety nets (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
6.60
6.60 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the ability of the GOI to make informed 
decisions towards reducing poverty, creating jobs and protecting the vulnerable.  Specifically, 
the project would focus on strengthening the ability of Iraqi officials to:  
 
•
collect and analyze data on poverty and unemployment;  
 
•
develop information-based strategies to reduce poverty, generate employment, and 
improve the functioning of social safety nets; and  
 
•
assess the effect of economic policy options on both poverty and employment, including 
the impact of sequencing reforms and policies.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The proposed project has three components corresponding to three key products: (i) a poverty 
assessment and related data set; (ii) a poverty and social impact analysis report; and (iii) a 
Page  2
government strategy for poverty reduction, employment generation and safety nets.  These 
products will be produced by a GOI team with financial and technical assistance from the Bank.  
The proposed project is designed to encourage the GOI team to do as much of the data 
collection, analysis and strategy development as possible in order to ensure relevance to the 
specifics of the Iraqi context.  Clearly, the GOI has many, highly educated civil servants who are 
quite competent to do the work themselves.  At the same time it is recognized that after so many 
years of having been largely cut off from the international community, the GOI team could 
benefit from exposure to recently developed analytical techniques and from the experiences of 
other countries in solving problems of poverty, employment generation and safety nets.    In the 
context of the proposed project, technical assistance from the Bank takes a variety of forms 
including: formal training (both inside and outside Iraq), on-the-job-training, and just-in-time 
advisory services.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Iraq   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Not Applicable   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Sherif Kamel F. Arif (MNSRE) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  02/28/2006 
Page  3
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Not applicable   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Susan R. Razzaz 
02/07/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sherif Kamel F. Arif 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Miria A. Pigato 
 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
