Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2151 
Project Name 
Iraq: Strengthening Policy Making for Poverty Reduction, 
Employment Generation and Safety Net Development 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P098979 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF IRAQ 
Implementing Agency 
 
Iraq Ministry of Planning 
Iraq 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 7, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 30, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 1, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
1.1 
The Iraqi population has experienced a dramatic decline in standards of living. A 
generati
on
ago, Iraq’s income, education and health indicators were high compared to regional 
averages. However, while its neighbors have seen increased standards of living during the 
intervening years, Iraq’s living standards have declined.  Income per capita, which reached over 
US$3,600 in the early 1980s, fell to less than US$1,000 by 2001.  Today an estimated 10 percent 
of the population lives below $1 per day, unemployment is at least 30 percent of the working age 
population and underemployment is widespread.  Most Iraqis have nominal access to basic 
services, but their quality is poor and deteriorating, and power shortages, contamination of 
drinking water with sewage, and shortage of essential medicines and equipment are persistent.   
1.2 
Iraq’s volatile security is likely to have continuing consequences on poverty.  Lack of 
access to employment and basic services will cause hardship for a large segment of the 
population.  Long-term, chronic poverty may also develop in households whose primary earners 
are killed or whose livelihood is destroyed, and for those whose education is cut short.   Even in 
the most optimistic scenario of a stable security and political situation, the important 
transformations being made in the Iraqi economy are likely to involve short term increases in 
unemployment as labor allocation moves to more productive areas.   
1.3 
The Public (food) Distribution System is the only large scale safety net functioning today.  
This system creates massive distortions in the economy, is highly inefficient and expensive.  
Subsidies (including both food and fuel subsidies) use half of government revenue – a magnitude 
far larger than all donor financing for reconstruction.  Elimination of the subsidy programs are 
necessary conditions for a diversified market-based economy.  However, elimination of the 
Page  2
subsidy programs without creating large increases in poverty Iraq requires sufficient employment 
opportunities for the able bodied workforce and a suitable safety net for those unable to work.   
 
1.4 The 
govern
ment’s reform agenda – including elimination of subsidies, employment 
generation and development of a targeted safety net – are articulated in the National 
Development Strategy (NDS).  The NDS was presented by the Transitional Iraqi Government in 
July 2005 as the basis for social and economic reforms for the reconstruction of Iraq, 
development of its economy, and the advancement of its people.  The NDS is organized around 
four pillars: (i) strengthening the foundations of economic growth (including reform of the 
subsidy system, which is the only currently functioning safety net and diversifying the economy 
beyond its current dependence on oil); (ii) revitalizing the private sector as the engine of growth 
and job creation; (iii) improving the quality of life (improving access to clean water and 
sanitation, high-quality medical care, affordable housing; investing in education; providing a 
targeted safety net for the needy); and (iv) strengthening good governance and security.  More 
recently, the Cabinet approved a Strategy and Guidelines for the 2006 Budget which includes 
phasing out the PDS and other subsidies by 2010 starting with a 25 percent reduction in the PDS 
budget for 2006.  This action makes development of an alternative safety net especially urgent. 
1.5 
To date, the empirical basis to permit the government to move forward on its reform 
agenda has not been in place.  In particular, the data needed to understand the causes and nature 
of poverty and to develop an efficient targeted safety net is not currently available.  Moreover, 
war, economic sanctions, and political directives to suppress data reduced the capacity of Iraq’s 
central and governorate/regional statistical agencies to collect and publish reliable data.  The 
2003 war and subsequent looting damaged or destroyed many government offices – and 
databases and documents with them.
1
1.6 
One of the most pressing current needs of the Government of Iraq (GOI) today is for data 
on household level consumption or expenditure.  Some data does exist on other aspects of 
poverty: both World Food Programme and the UNDP/FAFO have collected household level data 
on malnutrition, health, education, and access to infrastructure.  More recently, Dfid financed a 
rapid household budget survey to help fill the gap in data until a more comprehensive survey can 
be implemented.  However, none of these surveys provide the data needed to develop a poverty 
line or to develop a targeting mechanism for an efficient safety net program.
2
Moreover, in the 
fast changing circumstances of Iraq, the existing surveys need to be updated to provide 
information on the current situation.  
1
Under the Second Capacity Building Project of the Iraq Trust Fund, the World Bank has been working with the 
Iraqi statistical agencies to assess and develop capacity in a variety of areas.  See Section 4: Relationship with Other 
Bank Work. 
2
There are a variety of limitations of the existing survey data: (i) none provide nationally representative expenditure 
data; (ii) none combine consumption/expenditure data with data on education, health or other aspects of poverty; and 
(iii) none address seasonality issues.  While the Dfid survey did collect some expenditure data, it was insufficiently 
detailed to provide unbiased measures of poverty or inequality, it was not nationally representative (it did not collect 
data in all governorates), and it does not allow analysis of regional differences in poverty (because it was based on a 
very small sample size (less than 4,000 households).  The WFP and UNDP surveys collected data on a variety of 
indicators of education, health and access to infrastructure, but did not collect expenditure data. 
Page  3
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
2.1 
The objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the ability of the GOI to make 
informed decisions towards reducing poverty, creating jobs and protecting the vulnerable.  
Specifically, the project would focus on strengthening the ability of Iraqi officials to: 
·
collect and analyze data on poverty and unemployment; 
·
develop information-based strategies to reduce poverty, generate employment, and 
improve the functioning of social safety nets; and 
·
assess the effect of economic policy options on both poverty and employment, including 
the impact of sequencing reforms and policies. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
3.1   
The proposed project has three components corresponding to three key products: (i) a 
poverty assessment and related data set; (ii) a poverty and social impact analysis report; and (iii) 
a
government strategy for poverty reduction, employment generation and safety nets.  These 
products will be produced by a GOI team with financial and technical assistance from the Bank.  
The proposed project is designed to encourage the GOI team to do as much of the data 
collection, analysis and strategy development as possible in order to ensure relevance to the 
specifics of the Iraqi context.  Clearly, the GOI has many, highly educated civil servants who are 
quite competent to do the work themselves.  At the same time it is recognized that after so many 
years of having been largely cut off from the international community, the GOI team could 
benefit from exposure to recently developed analytical techniques and from the experiences of 
other countries in solving problems of poverty, employment generation and safety nets.    In the 
context of the proposed project, technical assistance from the Bank takes a variety of forms 
including: formal training (both inside and outside Iraq), on-the-job-training, and just-in-time 
advisory services. 
3.2 
In order to simplify administration and expedite progress on the products, the proposed 
project will have two sub-projects: (i) the development of the products will be implemented by 
the GOI team through a GOI-Executed sub-project; and (ii) the Bank support to the GOI team 
will be implemented through a Bank-Executed sub-project.  (See also Section 5: Implementation 
Issues.)  The diagram below illustrates the relationship between the two sub-projects and the 
three components. 
 
3.3 
The proposed project will involve inter-sectoral teams from both the GOI and the World 
Bank.  Responsibility for poverty, employment and safety net issues fall under multiple 
ministries, requiring that an inter-ministerial committee be involved in the proposed project.  The 
Page  4
GOI team must include the Ministry of Planning (including both the economic planning unit and 
the statistics unit), the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the 
Ministry of Trade and the Kurdish Regional Government (KRG), because all of these bodies 
have responsibilities for aspects of the issues.  Other ministries (such as the Ministry of 
Education and the Ministry of Health) may be included as well.  The specific individuals 
working on the project will depend on the specific component being addressed: the statistics 
units of MOP and the KRG will have a primary role in the implementation of the household 
survey; technical staff of all ministries will be involved in the analytical tasks, and policy makers 
would be expected to be most involved in development of the strategy, as well as oversight of the 
project as a whole. 
3.4   
It is expected that the following World Bank units will participate in the project by 
providing technical assistance: the Middle East and North Africa Social and Economic 
Development unit (MNSED); the Middle East and North Africa Human Development unit 
(MNSHD); the Middle East and North Africa Rural Development unit (MNSRD); and the 
Middle East and North Africa Private Sector unit (MNSIF).  In addition, experts from the central 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) network and the Development 
Economics (DEC) unit will be called upon for advice.  The MNSED unit will coordinate the 
proposed project.   
Component 1: Preparation of a Poverty Assessment Report and Data Sets  
3.5 
Preparation of a Poverty Assessment Report would entail two sub-components. The first 
subcomponent is collection of data through a household socio-economic survey.  This survey is 
intended to provide the data and information needed on income and consumption poverty.  Such 
data is also urgently needed for policy decisions (e.g. reform of fuel and/or food subsidies) and 
for the development of appropriate safety net programs. In addition, the survey is a necessary 
input into the creation of a Consumer Price Index (for measuring inflation, and indexing 
pensions, etc.) and the System of National Accounts (for monitoring macroeconomic growth, 
household consumption and savings and small enterprises). The most recent survey of this type 
was conducted in 1993 and did not include Kurdistan Region.  Key features of the proposed 
survey include: 
·
Collection of detailed expenditure data over a 12 month period, using a 10 day diary and 
recall sections for less frequent purchases. 
·
Collection of living standard measurement data on a variety of other issues, to permit 
analysis of the relationships between issues (e.g. the relationship between consumption 
poverty and access to health services).   
·
The sample will be representative at the level of urban and rural areas within each 
governorate.  Approximately 17,000 households will be interviewed.  This sample will 
permit analysis of some variables after the first quarter of data is available. 
·
A
series of quality control measures will be adopted including a range and consistency 
checks in the data entry program, field teams which complete data entry before leaving 
the community, and monthly data evaluation.  (On a monthly basis, data will be sent from 
the governorate offices to COSIT headquarters, aggregated into a nation-wide data set 
and distributed to the core team and the World Bank.)  
The outputs of this sub-component are data sets and a tabulation report of the main indicators in 
the data sets.   
Page  5
3.6 
The second subcomponent is development of a Poverty Assessment, including analysis of 
data from the socioeconomic survey and workshops to discuss implications of various 
approaches to poverty measurement and drafting of the report by an inter-ministerial committee 
and Iraqi consultants, with support from the Bank and other international experts.  Financing will 
be used for such purposes as workshops, consultants, printing and translation of report, 
dissemination to donors, civil society and the public.  The Poverty Assessment report will 
include: 
·
Poverty profile, providing data about the extent and nature of poverty and identifying 
relevant subgroups of the poor by their distinguishing characteristics.  The poverty profile 
will be developed as a guide to identifying poverty trends and design of policy. 
·
Incentives and regulations, identifying biases that limit the efficient use of assets owned 
by the poor or constrain the poor from acquiring human capital, land or credit.   
·
Public expenditures and institutions, to identify possible reallocations of resources 
–
within and across sectors – that could expand the access of the poor to physical and social 
infrastructure. 
·
Safety net analysis, identifying the type and scope of safety net(s) that are needed and 
identifying potential targeting mechanisms based on the poverty profile. 
·
Recommendations for a system of poverty monitoring (including a system of surveys for 
poverty monitoring) 
The output of this sub-component is a Poverty Assessment Report.     
3.8 
The World Bank has plans to produce a Poverty Assessment on Iraq during Fiscal Year 
2007.  Ideally, a single, jointly-issued Poverty Assessment product will be prepared.  A decision 
on jointly issued products will be determined by agreement of both institutions at a later date.  
(Note: the Bank products will be subject to the normal Bank Economic and Sector Work review 
process.) 
3.9 
Technical assistance for the socioeconomic survey will be aimed at staff of the Ministry 
of Planning/Central Organization for Statistics and Information technology (COSIT), the 
Statistics Office of Kurdish Region and Statistics Directors from relevant line ministries for 
poverty related data collection.  Technical assistance for the Poverty Assessment would provide 
key Iraqi ministry staff with on-the-job training and advice on poverty and inequality analysis as 
well as formal training courses.  Potential course topics include: (i) mixing quantitative and 
qualitative methods for poverty analysis; (ii) poverty measurement and analysis; (iii) poverty 
impacts of policies and programs; (iv) study tour of other countries approaches to poverty 
focused administrative statistics; and (v) developing a system of surveys for poverty monitoring. 
Component 2:  Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of Proposed Policy Areas  
3.11  
The purpose of this component is to conduct analytical work and provide policy advice to 
help the officials predict the likely impact of economic policies on poverty and employment 
generation, and assess the ability of existing safety net programs/policies to protect the poor from 
any negative impacts of economic reforms.  The component would also help ensure that reforms 
are appropriately sequenced and accompanied by safety net measures.  Iraq’s fragility dictates 
that careful consideration be given to the social and poverty impact of all proposed reforms.  
Reforms that will potentially increase unemployment or poverty in the short term need to be 
Page  6
structured and sequenced to minimize the adverse impact on the poor and accompanied by 
measures to protect vulnerable groups.  Failure to do so could undermine efforts to improve 
security and stability.   
3.12 
 Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) would be performed for four areas of 
proposed policy changes.  The specific areas to be addressed will be determined jointly by the 
Government of Iraq and the Bank team, based on what is relevant at the time of program 
implementation and to complement efforts by other UN and International Financial Institutions.  
It is anticipated that (i) achieving employment-generating economic growth and (ii) development 
of a social safety net and reform of the Public (food ration) Distribution System will be among 
the topics covered.  Other potential areas for analysis include: trade policy, reforms of 
agricultural policy, and privatization.  Analysis will be conducted jointly by the Government of 
Iraq, Iraqi experts, the Bank and other international experts.  In order to ensure that the PSIA is 
provided in a time frame that meets the needs of policy makers, it is anticipated that preliminary 
drafts of some issues/chapters will be developed before the expenditure survey field work is 
complete.  Such preliminary drafts may be developed using existing data and/or partial 
expenditure survey data, with final drafts to confirm the findings produced upon completion of 
the expenditure survey field work.  Financing will be used for such purposes as workshops, 
consultants, printing and translation of report, dissemination to donors, civil society and the 
public.  The output of this component will be a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis Report, 
covering the four selected policy areas. 
3.13 
Technical assistance activities for the PSIA report will include both on-the-job training 
and formal training, including courses on various analytical techniques and/or international 
experience with relevant policy issues. 
Component 3:  Preparation of Poverty Reduction, Employment Generation and Safety Net 
Strategy
 
3.14 
This component provides the needed resources to support the development of a strategy 
for poverty reduction, employment generation and safety nets.  Although preparation of a formal 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper may be eventually possible, such an elaborate process is not 
expected to be the outcome of this component.  In particular, it may not be possible to conduct 
extensive grass-roots consultations in the current security environment.  
 
3.15 
Preparation of this strategy will be fully the responsibility of the GOI inter-ministerial 
committee to ensure that the process and the output are entirely owned by the officials.  
Financing will be used for such purposes as workshops, consultants, printing and translation of 
report, dissemination to donors, civil society and the public.  The output of this component will 
be documentation of the GOI strategy/ies for poverty reduction, employment generation and 
safety nets. 
3.16 
Technical assistance to support this task would be determined by the Iraqi inter-
ministerial committee and may include workshops or study tours on topics such as: (i) poverty 
reduction in conflict-affected countries; (ii) demobilization and reintegration; (iii) refugees and 
Internally Displace Persons.   
 
Page  7
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
None of the Safeguard policies will apply. This project consists only of surveys and studies and 
involves no works. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
SPECIAL FINANCING 
6.6 
 Total 
6.6 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Susan R. Razzaz 
Title: Economist 
Tel:  
Fax:  
Email: Srazzaz@worldbank.org 
Location: Beirut, Lebanon (IBRD)
 
