Page  1
T
W
B
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
Hedi Larbi 
Director, Middle East Department 
Middle East & North Africa Region
 
UN-House 6
th
 Floor 
R
iad El Solh Square 
P.O.Box 11-8577 
Beirut, Lebanon
 
T
el.: 961-1-987-800 
Fax: 961-1-986-800 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
July 19, 2010 
 
H.E. Ali Baban 
Minister for Planning and Development Cooperation 
Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation 
Arrasat Al-Hindia 
Baghdad, Iraq 
 
Re: IRAQ - Additional Financing for the Emergency Household Survey  
and Policies for Poverty Reduction Project (TF056441) 
Amendment to Grant Agreement 
 
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the Ministry of 
Planning and Development Cooperation of Iraq 
(the “Recipient”) and the International 
Development Association, acting as administrator of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (the 
“Administrator”), dated July 24, 2006, as amended (the “Grant Agreement”). We also refer to the 
letter of Dr. Mehdi M Al-Alak, Deputy Minister of Planning and Development Cooperation, 
dated April 15, 2010 requesting an additional financing in an amount equal to one million five 
hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$1,500,000) for the Project and the letter from the 
Iraqi Strategic Review Board, dated May 18, 2010, approving the request for additional 
financing. 
I
am pleased to inform you that the Administrator has acceded to your request.  
Accordingly the Grant Agreement is amended and restated as attached to this Amendment Letter.   
Please confirm your agreement to this amendment by having authorized representatives 
of the Recipient and the Iraqi Strategic Review Board sign this Amendment Letter and returning 
one fully executed original to us at your earliest convenience. Please retain one fully executed 
original for your records and provide another fully executed original to the Iraqi Strategic Review 
Board for its records. This Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of your 
countersignature upon receipt by us one fully executed original. 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Hedi Larbi 
Hedi Larbi 
Director 
Middle East Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
 
Page  2
2
CONFIRMED AND AGREED: 
 
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION 
 
By: 
/s/ Dr. Mehdim Alalak 
 
Name: 
Dr. Mehdim Alalak 
 
Title: 
Deputy Minister/ Minister of Planning 
 
Date: 
June 30, 2010 
 
IRAQI STRATEGIC REVIEW BOARD 
 
By: 
/s/ Huela A. Malik 
 
Name: Huela 
A. 
Malik 
 
Title: 
ISRB Executive Secretary 
 
Date: 
June 30, 2010 
Page  3
3
Copy to:
H.E. Ali Baban 
Minister of Planning and Development Cooperation 
Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation 
Baghdad, Iraq 
(
theplanningminister@yahoo.com
)
H.E. Baker J. Al-Zubaidy 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Baghdad, Iraq 
(
mofiraq@yahoo.com /alkhaghani@yahoo.com)
Mr. Salah Hamid 
Director General 
Ministry of Finance 
(
Saladin592000@yahoo.com
)
Dr. Azez Jafaar 
Advisor to the Minister  
Ministry of Finance 
Baghdad, Iraq 
(
abtanazez@gmail.com
)
Dr. Faik Abdul Rasool 
Advisor to the Minister 
Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation 
Baghdad, Iraq 
(
faikrasool21@yahoo.com
)
Mr. Maki Al-
Ruba’i 
Director 
Project Management Office 
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs 
Baghdad, Iraq 
(
molsa_pmo@yahoo.com
)
Mr. Ali Alwayd 
Director General 
National Board of Pensions 
Baghdad, Iraq 
(
Re.ment@yahoo.com
)
Dr. Muayad Abdulrahman Koji  
Senior Advisor to the Prime Minister 
Kurdistan Regional Government 
(
muayadlhs@yahoo.ca
/
muayad.koji@krg.org
)
Page  4
4
Mr. Dilshad Miran 
Chief Coordinator 
Kurdistan Regional Government 
(
dilshad.miran@krg.org
)
Dr. Dindar Zebari  
Head of Coordination Office to the UN and WB Affairs at the Council of Ministries  
Kurdistan Regional Government 
(
dindar.zebari@krg.org
,
un@rp.krg.org
,
krg_unaffairs@yahoo.com
)
Cleared with and cc:  Soubbotin (LEGEM); Demarco (MNSHD) 
 
Page  5
ITF GRANT NUMBER TF056441 
 
World Bank Iraq Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Emergency Household Survey and Policies for 
Poverty Reduction Project) 
 
between 
 
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION  
OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(Acting as Administrator of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund) 
 
Dated July 24, 2006 
(as amended and restated on July 19, 2010) 
Page  6
2
ITF GRANT NUMBER TF056441 
 
WORLD BANK IRAQ TRUST FUND 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 24, 2006 (as amended and restated on July 19, 2010), entered 
into between the MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION 
OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ (“MOPDC” or “Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank” or “Administrator”), acting as 
administrator of grant funds (“Grant Funds”) contributed by various donors (collectively 
“Donors”) to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (“ITF”).   
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), with the modifications set 
forth in Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement, constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 
(a)  "Central Organization for Statistics and Information Technology" or "COSIT" means 
the Recipient's specialized technical body responsible for statistics operations and 
procedures in the central and southern governorates of Iraq. 
(b)  "Governorate" means a Governorate in Iraq. 
(c)  "IHSES" means Iraq household socio-economic surveys. 
(d)  "Incremental Operating Costs" means costs incurred under the Project on account of: 
(i) maintenance of office equipment and vehicles; (ii) transportation and travel, 
including per diem allowances for Project staff in travel status; (iii) rental of office 
space; (iv) office supplies, utilities and office administration, including translation, 
printing and advertising; (v) fuel costs; (vi) communication costs; (vii) costs for 
production of bidding documents and drawings; (viii) commercial bank charges; and 
(ix) any other Project management support costs as may be agreed between the 
Recipient and the Administrator from time to time, but excluding salaries of Iraqi 
civil servants. 
Page  7
3
(e)  "Iraqi Strategic Review Board" means the Iraqi Strategic Review Board responsible 
for providing overall guidance on coordination of donors' assistance to Iraq. 
(f) 
"KRG" means the Iraq Kurdistan Regional Government, or any successor thereto. 
(g)  "KRG-MOP" means the Ministry of Planning of KRG, or any successor thereto. 
(h) "Kurdistan Regional Statistical Commission, Iraq" or "KRSCO" means KRG's 
specialized technical body responsible for statistics operations and procedures in the 
Kurdistan region. 
(i) "Master Implementation Manual" means the Master Implementation Manual 
prepared by IDA in August 2005 for use in projects to be carried out in Iraq and 
financed by IDA, in its own capacity or as administrator of the World Bank Iraq 
Trust Fund, setting out, 
inter alia, 
details of procedures and guidelines relating to 
procurement, financial management and other operational and administrative 
arrangements for the carrying out of such projects. 
(j) 
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of Iraq, or any successor thereto. 
(k)  "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of Iraq, or any successor thereto. 
(l) 
"MOH" means the Ministry of Health of Iraq, or any successor thereto. 
(m) "MOLSA" means the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs of Iraq, or any successor 
thereto. 
(n)  "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project, dated 
May 31, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time 
to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
(o)  "Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Manual to be 
prepared by the Recipient and updated in June, 2009 in coordination with KRG-
MOP, setting out, 
inter alia, 
details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and 
criteria required for the Project, including the procurement, financial, administrative, 
safeguard and operational arrangements relating to the carrying out of the Project, 
and incorporating relevant and applicable provisions of the Master Implementation 
Manual. 
(p)  "Project Management Team" or "PMT" means the project management team to be 
established and maintained pursuant to Part A, Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  8
4
(q) 
“Poverty Reduction Strategy” or “PRS” means the poverty reduction strategy 
document adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Iraq under Decree 
No.409 dated November 24, 2009. 
(r)  “Project Committee” means the committee established under Part A, Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article II 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
implement Parts A, B and D of the Project and cause COSIT to carry out Part C 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard 
Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to seven 
million United States Dollars (USD 7,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing 
the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. 
Article IV 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
4.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of Iraq. 
Page  9
5
4.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation 
Arrasat Al-Hindia 
Baghdad, Iraq 
Tel: + 191 48224999 
 
4.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and by different parties hereto 
in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed 
an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same 
instrument; signature pages may be detached from multiple separate counterparts and 
attached to a single counterpart so that all signature pages are physically attached to the 
same document. 
 
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
COOPERATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
 
By  
/s/ 
Dr. Mehdi Al-Alak
 
Dr. Mehdi Alalak 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
ASSOCIATION 
 
(acting as administrator of the Iraq Trust Fund) 
 
Page  10
6
By  
/s/ 
Hedi Larbi
 
/Hedi Larbi/ 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
IRAQI STRATEGIC REVIEW BOARD 
 
By  
/s/ 
Huda M. Malik
 
/Huda M. Malik/ 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
7
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the ability of the Government of Iraq 
to make and implement informed policies regarding poverty reduction, job creation and 
improvement of safety nets. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A.
Capacity building for implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Provision of support for building the capacities of Iraqi government agencies involved in 
the implementation of the PRS, including support for integration of the PRS into the 
budget process, coordination between the PRS and other national and sectoral strategies, 
and planning PRS-related activities using results-based methods.   
 
Part B.
Monitoring the implementation of the PRS
Provision of support for monitoring the implementation of the PRS, including support for 
developing a set of appropriate monitoring indicators, carrying out analysis against the 
indicators, and, if necessary, modifying the PRS.   
 
Part C.
Measuring poverty and carrying out the 2nd IHSES
Provision of support for carrying out a poverty measurement and the 2nd round IHSES to 
update the poverty line and analyze the poverty trends in Iraq.  
 
Part D.
Project Management
Carrying out of Project management, coordination and support activities necessary for 
effective implementation of the Project. 
Page  12
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Project Committee; PMT; COSIT 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than September 30, 2006 establish, and 
thereafter maintain, the Project Committee with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Administrator. The Project Committee's membership shall 
include representatives of the Recipient, other relevant ministries, including 
MOF, MOLSA, MOE, MOH, KRG-MOP and other relevant entities. 
(b) 
The Project Committee shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
,
providing 
overall guidance to the Project and serving as the principal mechanism through 
which PMT received guidance from and reports to relevant ministries, KRG and 
other relevant Iraqi entities.  The Recipient shall maintain the Project Committee 
with resources, composition and terms of reference acceptable to the World 
Bank.   
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, not later than September 30, 2006 establish, and 
thereafter maintain, PMT with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to 
the Administrator. PMT shall be headed by a PMT project director assisted by an 
adequate number of staff (including an assistant to the director, a financial 
officer, a PMT accountant and a procurement specialist). The project director and 
staff of PMT shall have qualifications and experience, and be appointed on terms 
and conditions, satisfactory to the Administrator. 
(b) 
The PMT shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
,
(i) managing the day-to-day 
operation of the Project, including the financial and procurement management, 
Project monitoring and process reporting activities, (ii) coordinating Project 
implementation including coordinating meetings for the Project Committee and 
acting as liaison between the Project Committee and research consultants 
involved in the Project, and (iii) ensuring that issues affecting or potentially 
affecting the Project implementation are identified and addressed in a timely 
manner.  The Recipient shall maintain the PMT with resources, staffing and 
terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank. 
3. 
COSIT shall be responsible for carrying out Part C of the Project by providing a 
management and coordination functions relating to, inter alia, (i) ensuring 
appropriate staffing for the IHSES team (including the IHSES project manager, 
operations room manager, logistics officer, technical expert, economic expert, 
fieldwork manager, data manager and secretary, field-based supervisors, survey 
interviewers and data entry operators); (ii) ensuring consistency in the IHSES 
Page  13
9
methods used throughout Iraq through it s representatives on the IHSES team; 
(iii) ensuring regular communication between the IHSES team and with KRSCO; 
(iv) ensuring appropriate space and fa
cilities for the IHSES team in the COSIT’s 
facilities; and (v) merging completed questionnaires and electronic data sets 
collected from all parts of Iraq into a nation-wide data set and sending it to the 
IHSES team. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and 
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”), with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement.
 
C. 
Master Implementation Manual/Project Implementation Manual:   
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project shall be carried out: (i) in accordance with the 
provisions of the Master Implementation Manual until the Project Implementation 
Manual satisfactory to the Administrator shall have been prepared; and (ii) thereafter, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
2. 
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that no 
provision of the Project Implementation Manual or the Master Implementation Manual is 
amended or waived, if, in the opinion of the Administrator, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set 
forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than 45-days after the end of the period covered 
by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
Page  14
10
i. 
Strengthened capacity of the Government of Iraq will be measured using 
activity evaluations (based on the WBI level 1 training evaluation format) 
ii. 
PRS priorities are integrated into the budget.  PRS activities are 
implemented.   Links are identified among relevant strategies. 
iii. 
First annual PRS monitoring report is issued.  The monitoring report 
measures progress in terms of both inputs (e.g. budget) and outputs.  See the 
PRS document for a preliminary list of monitoring indicators. 
iv. 
Second round of IHSES is initiated.  Process for updating the poverty line 
and analyzing poverty is established.  Information about poverty is 
disseminated. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date.
 
In order to assist the Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not 
later than 45-days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each period shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured 
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
Page  15
11
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010 (“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of 
goods and Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
National Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding, subject to the following additional procedures:   
(i) 
there shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder 
and/or origin of goods; 
 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods; 
 
(iii) 
entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the 
Government, unless they are and can be shown to be legally and 
financially autonomous and they operate under commercial law; 
 
(iv) 
no national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor; 
 
(v) 
joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations; 
 
(vi) 
no “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of 
producing (copying) the bidding documents; 
 
Page  16
12
(vii) 
in the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ  the 
bid prices exceed the available budget; 
 
(viii) 
rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the Bank; 
 
(ix) 
prior approval of the Bank shall be required for any modification in the 
contract scope and conditions during implementation; and 
 
(x) 
 the standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be used 
for the bidding process 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following methods, other than 
National Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods for those 
contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Shopping; and (b) Direct 
Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in 
the Procurement Plan: (a) Least Cost Selection; (b) Selection based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single-source Procedures for the Selection of 
Firms; (d) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (e) Sole Source Procedures 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise determine  by notice to the Recipient, 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the World Bank: (a) the first two 
(2) contracts for goods procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding regardless 
of value; (b) each contract for goods procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding or Shopping and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) the 
first three (3) contracts for goods procured on the basis of Shopping regardless of value; 
(d) each contract for goods procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (e) the first two 
(2) contracts for consultants' services provided by a firm regardless of value and selection 
method; (f) each contract for consultants' services provided by a firm and estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (g) each contract for consultants' services 
provided by a firm and procured on the basis of Single- Source Selection. 
 
Page  17
13
2. 
In addition, the following prior review procedures shall apply to: (a) the first three (3) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis) regardless of value and (b) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants (other than consultants to be selected on a sole 
source basis) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more: (i) the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the World Bank for its 
prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the World Bank's 
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of 
Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. The following prior 
review procedures shall apply to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms 
of reference and conditions of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the 
World Bank for its prior review and approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after 
the World Bank's approval shall have been given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraphs 3 
and 4 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
3. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.   
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  18
14
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods 
 
1,157,000 
 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ 
services, Studies,  
Training, Workshops 
and Study tours 
 
3,610,000 
 
100% 
(3) Incremental 
Operating Costs 
 
2,133,000 
 
100% 
(4) Unallocated 
 
100,000 
 
TOTAL  
 
7,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
September 30, 2012. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
The Recipient shall finance through COSIT the salaries, per diem, 
accommodation and transportation costs of field-based supervisors, survey 
interviewers, and data entry operators who are engaged for carrying out the 2
nd
 
Iraqi Household Socio-Economic Survey specified in Part C of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  19
15
 
APPENDIX 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
Section I.
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
1. 
Section 4.02(d) is modified to read in its entirety as follows: 
 
“(d) 
Cross Suspension.
 IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient (or of the Member Country if the Recipient is not the 
Member Country) or of any other recipient of grant funds contributed by various 
donors to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund to make withdrawals under any 
agreement with IBRD or with IDA because of a failure by the Recipient (or by the 
Member Country) or by such other recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement or any other agreement  with IBRD or IDA.” 
 
2. 
A new Section 4.02(k) is added after Section 4.02(j), to read in its entirety as 
follows, and the existing Section 4.02(k) is re-lettered as Section 4.02(l): 
 
“(k) 
Payment Failure. The Member Country has failed to make 
payment (notwithstanding the fact that such payment may have been made by a 
third party) of principal, interest, service charge or any other amount due to IBRD 
or IDA: (i) under any agreement between the Member Country and IBRD; or (ii) 
under any agreement between the Member Country and IDA; or (iii) in 
consequence of any guarantee extended or other financial obligation of any kind 
assumed by IBRD or IDA to any third party with the agreement of the Member 
Country.” 
3. 
The provisions of Section 4.02 (j) of the Standard Conditions are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
... (j) 
Ineligibility
.
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient (other than the 
Member Country) ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD 
or IDA or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by IBRD or IDA, as a result of: (i) a 
determination by IBRD or IDA that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of any financing made by IBRD or IDA; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Recipient is ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds 
of a financing made by such financier.” 
Page  20
16
Section II.  
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
4. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
Page  21
17
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.”  
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
