FILE  COPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report Now P-2258-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
WITH THE! GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINE
FOR A
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
March 13, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties, its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977      January 1978
Currency unit        = Peso (P)                 P
US$1.00              = Pesos (P) 7.4            7.4
P 1.00               = US$0.135                 0.135
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   =  Asian Development Bank
DOE   =  Department of Energy
MECO  =  Manila Electric Company
NEA   =  National Electrification Administration
NPC   =  National Power Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



PHILIPPINES                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Guarantor:       Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          US$60 million equivalent
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period cf 5 years, with an interest rate of 7.45% per annum.
Relending
Terms:         NEA would relend the proceeds of the loan to the rural electric
cooperat:ives on varying terms. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan if NEA is unable to meet
these costs from its own revenues.
Project
Description:  The project would support NEA's rural electrification program
during L979-80, thereby assisting the Government in meeting
its target of bringing electric service to the entire popula-
tion by 1990.  One of the program s main objectives is to
improve the standard of living of people in provincial towns
and rural areas. The project would provide access to elec-
tricity services for some 877,000 families (or 5.3 million
individuals) in these areas, help create new job opportunities,
and thereby increase incomes among the rural population.
The primary risk relates to the fact that the rural electric
cooperatives which are now in operation are still within
the five-year grace period of their initial loans from NEA and
have therefore not yet established a repayment record. There
is likely to be considerable variation in the financial per-
formance of individual cooperatives due to differences in the
degree of economic development in the area, the sizes of the
cooperatives, and the varying costs of power in different
regions of the country. NEA has been successful in ensuring
that the cooperatives follow efficient operating procedures,
and has the ability to monitor closely the performance of
each cooperative. In the event that some of the cooperatives
have difficulty in servicing their loans, NEA has the authority,
and wiLl consider steps, to alleviate the position of the
cooperatives which experience higher costs due to their remote
locations in order to enable them to meet their financial obli-
gation, while keeping tariffs at reasonable levels. Ultimately,
the success of the rural electrification program will depend
upon thie ability of the population in rural areas to pay for
the program, which is directly related to the successful imple-
mentation of the policies and programs which the Government has
established to increase the level of development in rural areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii~ -
Estimated
Cost:                                           Local  Foreign   Total
($ million)
Materials                        20.2    61.3       81.5
Labor                            16.7       -       16.7
Consultants                       0.2      0.3       0.5
Transportation and
administration                  4.0       -        4.0
Engineering                       5.1       -        5.1
Special projects, head-
quarters, working equipment
and load promotion             15.4      4.5      19.9
Subtotal                       61.6    66.1      127.7
Physical contingencies            4.3      3.4       7.7
Price contingencies              12.8    12.3       25.1
Subtotal                       17.1    15.7       32.8
Total                     78.7    81.8    160.5
Financing
Plan:                             Local       Foreign        Total
Source
Government equity to NEA    78.7              -           78.7
World Bank                       -          60.0         60.0
Other External Sources           -          21.8         21.8
Total                        78.7         81.8        160.5
Bank Fiscal Year
Estimated                                                  ($ million)
Disbursements:                                      1979    1980       1981
Annual                   16.00   36.82    7.18
Cumulative               16.00   52.82   60.00
Rate of Return:              22%
Appraisal Report:            NG. 1843a-PH dated March 13, 1978



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Electrification Administration (NEA) with the guarantee of the
Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $60.0 million to help finance
a Rural Electrification Project.  The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.45% per annum. NEA would
finance interest during the grace period. The proceeds of the loan would be
relent to approximately 120 electric cooperatives on varying terms. The Govern-
ment would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan if NEA is unable to
meet these costs from its own revenues.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic raission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Prioritiess and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippines economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also' distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined writh the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72., when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly,
exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal, and the shares
of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable at still relatively
low levels. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditiona:L export commodities stimulated demand, agricultural
production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the previous
year, and the balance of payments registered a substantial current account
surplus. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment



-2-
boom. The resulting high investment rate, together with favorable sugar
prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil price
increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP growth
was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the 1970s also saw
significant structural changes in the economy, the most important of which
were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in large part
by a greater tax effort, a recovery in export growth, a shift of the domestic
terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population
growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier
declines in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external
situation dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a
result the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP, and the overall balance
of payments deficit to $500 million. Thus, the necessity of restoring balance
to the external accounts was superimposed on the Government's longer term
objectives of faster economic growth and a better distribution of its benefits.
To maintain the momentum of growth and investment, the Government adopted a
policy of increasing capital inflows in the near term to finance the resulting
expanded current account deficits while accelerating export growth in the
longer term. In 1976-77, the economy - led by exports, public investment,
agriculture and construction - has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfor-
tunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion in export volume was offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. However, inflation, which
reached a peak of 31% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on
domestic prices, has slowed to a rate of about 7% because of the deceleration
in international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a five-year plan for the period 1978-82, call for further
acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The development
strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities
at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-
sufficiency in food and energy, strengthening the balance of payments, and
increased development in rural areas. In addition, the plan includes strategies
for development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the Government in
recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's basic economic
report, although investment, manufacturing output, and exports are projected
to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be feasible to
accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade stabilize, but
more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and effort needs
to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        For a country with fairly good soils and a reasonably literate
rural population, agricultural yields in the Philippines are relatively low.
Possible reasons for this situation are the low quantity and quality of



irrigation facilities and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure
patterns; and weak agricultural credit, extension, and other supporting
services. Agricultural production has, nevertheless, grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year in the 1970s. The performance of the sector was
exceptionally strong in 1976 and 1977, as production increased by 7%, and the
Philippines has been virtually self-sufficient in rice, its main staple, for
the past three years.
8.        The Government gives high priority to agriculture and rural
development. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability
of irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to
improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification,
health and family planning, and rural roads. However, while irrigation
investment has been raised substantially, improvements in the quality of
supporting services - particularly credit and extension - are necessary.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer, which established
their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implemen-
tation, the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's
rural development strategy.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growlth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and introduced
policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further
efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import substitution and
capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate of
industrial growth as projected in the Five Year Development Plan.
11.       MIanufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
two years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base as their exports increased almost fivefold in the
four-year period 1973-76 in response to exchange rate adjustment and special
measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and thus
reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted above,
further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports are to
continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry has also grown
rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment
and large tourism investments in the Manila area raised construction expendi-
ture from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.



-4-
Employment, Incomes and Population
.12.      Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined correspondingly. Due to the improvement in agriculture's
terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban
real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial
employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to the average
urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per capita consumption
increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance for price
increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live, have
probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have remained about the
same.
14.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.8% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6-1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP. Although the private investment rate is well over the 14% average of
the early 1970s, the revival of private investment is an important short-term
problem. Furthermore, the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively
modest growth of manufacturing output and employment, and the structural
underutilization of capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency
of investment also needs to be improved.



16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to t:hat of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976--77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy.  Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened.  Interest rates were realigned
in 1976 and again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and
to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand,
the programs have become costly means of achieving their objectives, and the
growth of arrears reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and
allocation. On the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the
availability of credit so that arrears have to be reduced without closing
necessary credit charnels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP, and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing



- 6 -
revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
financial institutions and government corporations, whose irvestment programs
have grown rapidly, is also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
19.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in 1975,
the current account recorded a deficit of $900 million, or 6% of GNP. To meet
the immediate payments problem, the Government drew down its international
reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its
borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a
strategy was adopted of accelerating export growth both to hold the current
account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and
to meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit was stabil-
ized at 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1 billion.
Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two-thirds of which
were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements from official
sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expansion in export
volume which, with little expected change in the terms of trade, import
volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account deficit to 4%
of GNP and eliminate the overall payments deficit. Hence, on the whole, the
balance of payments position has strengthened significantly.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about 19%,
of which 7% would be public debt service, during the plan period (1978-82).
22.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of the planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, co meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
23.       By February 28, 1978, the Philippines had received 51 Bank loans /1
(of which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,362.7 million, net of cancellations. About one-third of Bank Group lending
($465.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
tion, and water supply and another third ($493.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder. $278.4 million has been for industry and
8125.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of local
currency and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now being imple-
mented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC irnvestments as of January 31, 1978, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projec:ts.
24.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. More
than 40% of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and about a quarter would be for needed
basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power.
The amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, popula-
tion and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account
for more than 15% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be
for industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid
growth in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a
significant expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine
development program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed
to meet the country's substantial future needs. In view of the per capita
income of the Philippines, its level of external debt, and the generally good
management of the economy, a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed
in the Bank Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
25.       This is the fifth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY78. Loans for rural infrastructure, industrial finance and for a multi-
purpose dam project are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive
Directors within the next few months.
26.       As of January 31, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $86.3 million for investment in 16 projects in the fields of develop-
ment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, petroleum products,
nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and edible oils.
Of these investments, $36.1 million had been sold, cancelled and repaid, leaving
a net portfolio of $50.2 million, including $5.0 million undisbursed.
/1 Including the fift'i loan to the Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines (PDC1' V) for $30 million (approved on January 31, 1978), and
the second loan for the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project
(NISIP II) for $155 million (approved on February 28, 1978).



- 8 -
27.       At present the share of the Bank Group in the Philippines' total
external debt disbursed and outstanding is about 11% and its share in debt
service is about 5%. These ratios are expected to increase to around 19% and
8% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Power Development in the Philippines
28.       The three major regions of the Philippines (Luzon, Mindanao, and
the Visayas) are currently in very different stages of power development.
Most of the existing power development has taken place on the island of Luzon,
where 46% of the households are electrified. Although some grid development
has taken place on the island of Mindanao, particularly in the northern part
where the availability of easily developed and low cost hydropower has
attracted industry, only 15% of the households in Mindanao have access to
electricity. Power development is even less extensive in the Visayas, where
only 13% of the households have access to electricity.
29.       The Government is committed to a policy of rapid industrialization
which is central to its objectives of fostering growth in exports and employ-
ment. It is also committed to a policy of dispersing industrial growth from
the already congested Manila Metropolitan Area to other regions of the country.
In order to meet these objectives and to realize the planned annual growth in
the gross national product of more than 7% during the next 10 years, it is
estimated that electricity consumption in the Visayas, Mindanao and Luzon
will need to grow at annual rates of about 16%, 13%, and 10%, respectively.
30.       The electrification of the country has been progressing steadily.
The total electricity supply in 1976 was estimated at about 13.9 billion kWh;
50% was provided by the Manila Electric Company, 23% by National Power Corpora-
tion, 20% by self-generating industries, 6% by small utilities, and 1% by
cooperatives. Many small self-generating utilities have provided substandard
service with power available for only a few hours each day in many areas.
Electricity generation in the Philippines grew at an annual rate of 11% from
1970-76, while GDP grew at a rate of 6% over the same period. The per capita
consumption of electricity in 1976 was estimated at 300 kWh, compared with
490 kWh in Korea, 184 kWh in Thailand, and 120 kWh in India. Over 30% of the
population is currently served with electricity compared with 23% in 1970.
Organization of the Power Sector
31.       Historically, ownership of the power sector has been fragmented
with the result that the sector has been poorly coordinated and uneven in
performance and institutional strength. The largest utility in the country
has been the privately-owned Manila Electric Company (MECO). The National
Power Corporation (NPC), which is the second largest utility and totally
Government-owned, generates and transmits power in bulk, selling to other
utilities and large indus.rial consumers. In addition, there are a number of
small, highly inefficient utilities in the country, operating largely in
isolation from power development elsewhere. As of end-1977, about 78 out of
approximately 100 rural electric cooperatives that had been organized by the
National Electrification Administration were supplying customers.



- 9 -
32.       Because fragmented ownership has rendered the integrated development
of the sector slow and cifficult, the Government has taken steps to consolidate
its ownership. NPC has been made responsible for construct-ing all future
generation facilities and for establishing island grids. The Government is
now in the process of purchasing most of MECO's generating plants, which will
be operated by NPC in the future.  When this process is completed, MECO will
become primarily a power distributor.  The National _Eectrification Administra-
tion (NEA) was created in 1969 with responsibility for integrating small utili-
ties and for extending power service to rural areas, a duty which it has
approached with vigor by establishing consumer cooperatives throughout the
country. NEA's activities will eventually result in only about the ten largest
private utilities remaining in business. In October 1977, the Government
abolished the Energy Development Board and the Power Development Council and
established the Department of Energy (DOE) to be responsible for the formula-
tion of policies and programs on energy, including the coordination of the
activities of all organizations connected with electric power. DOE will also
be responsible for the development of primary energy resources, including
geothermal energy, water, oil, gas, and coal.
Power Generation
33.       About 80% of the power genera:ed in the Pnilippines is currently
dependent on imported oil and the remaining 20% on hydro resources. The
Government has begun to diversify its energy resources by developing indigenous
hydro and geothermal -,ower and by introducing nuclear energy.  Construction
of the first geothermaL power plant is underway in Southern Luzon.  Development
and exploration of geochermal energy are being underlaken in several other
parts of the country and have alreadv shown promisin- results. Investigations
of potential hydropower si-- are also u-nderway and several projects are
planned in the near future,  T_ -d--on, NFC is constructing its first
nuclear power plant with financing from tue United States Export-Import Bank
and commercial banks. Although the objective of diversifying energy resources
is reasonable since it is the least cost alternative, the program is ambitious
and involves certain risks.  Financial constri--ts may hinder the timely
development of capital-intensive hydropower projects, and technical problems
may arise in developing nuclear and geothiermal sources of energy. In addition,
NPC will need to improve its capacity for system planning and financial
management and control., to streamline and improve its internal organization,
and to develop effective training programs for its personnel.
Sector Investment Program and Costs
34.       The sector program required to meet the anticipated future power
demand is huge.  It will almost triple the countr. 's ge erating capacity by
expanding it from aboult 3,54u " in 1976 to about 8,500 MW in 1985.  The
development program etvisa-ed through '9E3 will ren- 4re a total investment of
about $7.3 billion (1 54.0 billion) at current prices, including finance
charges and price escalation; this would represent an increase in the share of
power in public investmient from W0% in recent years to about 35% in the future.
For this reason, the National Power Corporation (NPC) and the Natlonal Elec-
trification Administration (NEA), the agencies primarily responsible for
the expansion of power generation and distribution, have critical roles to
play in helping the Philippines realize its economic objectives.



- 10 -
35.       It is expected that NPC's share of the power investment program
through 1983 will amount to about $6 billion, or 82% of the total. NEA's
share will amount to $500 million, about 7% of the total. Investment by the
Manila Electric Company9 which holds the franchise for the greater Manila
area, will be about $400 million through 1983. Investment in the remainder of
the sector by other major utilities will be about $400 million.
36.       The Bank has made seven loans and one IDA credit to NPC and to the
Government, amounting to $218.3 million, net of cancellations, to assist in
the development of the Philippines power sector. The most recent was a loan
of $58.0 million (Loan 1460-PH) in 1977 to finance the expansion of trans-
mission systems in Luzon, the first stage of a central load dispatching
system, the services of management consultants, and a training school for
NPC's staff. Although some of the projects financed either exceeded the
original execution schedules or experienced cost overruns, all of them are
being operated satisfactorily. Under the loan agreements, NPC is required to
earn an 8% rate of return on its revalued net fixed assets in operation.
In 1977, NPC is estimated to have earned a rate of return of a maximum of 5%.
A major tariff increase has now been introduced in Mindanao, however, and
further increases in the Visayas and Luzon are under consideration.
37.       IFC made a loan of $8 million to MECO and an equity investment of
$4 million in 1967, which was sold in 1977. The project performance audit
report on the Fourth Power Project (Sec. M76-35) suggested that the Bank
should agree with NPC on procedures for annual review and revision of tariffs
and specific targets for transmission expansion. It also suggested that the
Bank should assist in the development of management training programs. These
comments have been taken into account in the design of subsequent projects,
including Loan 1460-PH to NPC.
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
38.       NEA was created in 1969 under Republic Act 6038 which established
total electrification of the country through electric cooperatives as a
national policy; NEA is now governed by the provisions of Presidential Decree
269 of 1973. NEA has set targets of completing the country's main primary
distribution system, or "backbone" system, by 1980, providing electricity to
all barrios /1 by 1984 and of attaining total electrification of the country
by 1990. By end-1977, a total of about 100 cooperatives had already been
formed, of which 78 were operating. The cooperatives have purchased the
assets of over 100 private and municipal utilities, largely at the request of
consumers because tariff rates were exorbitant, service poor and confined
mainly to the commercial areas of provincial towns. Each cooperative normally
includes 5-10 municipalities and approximately 100,000-150,000 people. About
20 cooperatives remain to be formed under NEA's program.
/1 Villages



- II -
39.       NEA has becoms a well managed and efficient organization with a
well trained and highly dedicated staff. In addition to its responsibilities
for carrying out the rural electrification program, it has established programs
to develop irrigation and industrial cooperatives to help ensure that the
provision of electricity in rural areas contributes to growth in productive
activities and employment. In 1975, the Bank provided $2.3 million (Loan
v        998-PH of June 1974) to NEA to set up industrial cooperatives in rural areas.
40.       The National Rural Electric Cooperative Association of the United
States has provided assistance to NEA in setting up its organization and
procedures. USAID has also provided financial and technical assistance to NEA
since 1972, which in aggregate has amounted to approximately $90 million. In
addition, materials for the program have been financed by the Government of
Japan and a French supplier's credit. As NEA's capital requirements have
grown rapidly and USAII) is now phasing out its assistance, NEA has requested
the World Bank and other foreign assistance agencies to finance a substantial
part of its future requirements. The proposed Bank loan would be the first to
support NEA's rural electrification program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was prepared by NEA.  A Bank mission visited the
Philippines in September/October 1977 to appraise the project. Negotiations
were held in Washington on February 27-28, 1978; the leader of the negotiating
team was His Excellency, Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the
United States. The Appraisal Report (No. l848a-PH)is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III of this report provides
supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
42.       NEA's rural electrification program is designed to bring electric
service to the entire population by 1990. The proposed project would help
finance NEA's rural electrification program during 1979 and 1980. It would
energize about 500 towns and 8,540 villages throughout the country and would
provide reliable electricity service to some 877,000 familes, or 5.3 million
persons.
43.       One of the fundamental objectives of the proposed project is
improvement of the standard of living in the rural areas. Once a permanent
and reliable electric supply is available, NEA and the cooperatives would go
on to try to organize water supply projects to improve sanitation in the
barrios, pump irrigation projects to open the way for increased farm output,
and small-scale industry projects to generate new employment opportunities.
Pumps, motors and other machinery would also be provided to the electric
cooperatives to sell to individuals and small businesses on a hire/purchase
basis in order to to assist them in the conversion of mechanical to electrical
power and to promote the use of electricity in households, shops, rice mills,
and small workshops. In addition, project construction work would provide
employment for approximately 12,000 individuals.



- 12 -
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would assist in financing the 1979-80 program
of NEA. It comprises the construction of about 230 individual subprojects,
including the rehabilitation of some old distribution facilities acquired by
the cooperatives from private franchise holders or from municipalities.
45.       The main items included in the project are:
(a) 476 km of 69 kv transmission lines;
(b) 20,334 km of primary distribution lines at 13.2/7.6 kv;
(c) 8,743 km of secondary distribution lines at 220 v;
(d) radio communication and other equipment;
(e) electric motors, pumps, and machinery for load promotion; and
(f) headquarters facilities, including warehouses for cooperatives.
46.       The cooperatives included in the proposed project are located on the
islands of Luzon, Mindanao, and the Visayas. The cooperatives have all been
the subject of feasibility studies; the locations of the cooperatives to be
formed have been determined by the need to have proximity to existing generating
and transmission facilities. Priority has initially been given to establishing
cooperatives in provinces with the largest populations, but consideration is
also given to providing an equitable distribution of cooperatives among regions.
Cooperatives in each of the country's 72 provinces will establish primary
distribution systems.
Project Implementation
47.       The implementing agency for the overall project would be NEA.  The
subborrowers of NEA would be approximately 120 rural electric cooperatives
operating throughout the country. NEA is a stock corporation, fully owned by
the Government, with an authorized capital stock of P 2 billion ($270 million),
of which P 618 million ($83.5 million) was paid up at end-1976. Corporate
powers are vested in a Board of Administrators of five members, including the
Acting Administrator (NEA's chief executive), who is an ex-officio member; the
General Manager of NPC is also a member of the Board. The Chairman and
members are Presidential appointees and serve for a six-year term.
48.       NEA is empowered to make loans to public service entities with
preference to cooperatives. It is responsible for granting electric power
utility franchises, and the Government has agreed that NEA will continue to
exercise this authority under the new DOE (see Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Since 1972, NEA has granted franchises primarily to
rural electric cooperatives, about 100 of which were in existence at the end of
1977; 78 were supplying electricity and 22 had buildings, backbone lines and
distribution systems under construction.



- 13 -
49.       The cooperatives are organized with the help of NEA at the request
of district electrification committees that are formed from local municipal
representatives. A feasibility study is carried out of the proposed coopera-
*         tive area by NEA to ensure that the cooperative would be financially viable.
The cooperative is then registered with NEA and a board of directors is
elected, with each member representing one or more muncipalities. An annual
election of the directors has ensured that the cooperative members in rural
and provincial areas have an influence on management decisions, which makes
the program well attuned to the needs of the local community. The board is
responsible for the financial viability of the cooperative and for the
construction schedule of laterals within the cooperative's area. A general
manager and architectural and enginering consultants are appointed on terms
and conditions and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to NiEA.
The cooperatives are generally well managed because of NEA's effective
training programs for cooperative staff.
50.       Three deputy administrators in NEA are responsible, respectively,
for administration and cooperative development, engineering and materials,
and finance and franchises. In addition, training, special studies and other
divisions report directly to the Administrator. NEA has training programs
for its own staff and for all the personnel required to man the cooperatives,
incuding managers, accountants, linemen, electricians, and plant operators.
By the end of 1977, NEA had conducted a total of 780 courses with 28,150
participants. Consequently, NEA and the cooepratives are well-manned with
adequately trained and qualified staff.
51.       NEA staff follow closely the formation and operation of the cooper-
atives and have developed manuals which lay down standard operating procedures
to be followed by the cooperatives. NEA auditing, engineering, and other
administrative staff ensure that these procedures are followed. The coopera-
tives use the services of local architectural and engineering firms for
engineering design arLd supervision of construction; these firms are supervised
by NEA with the assistance of Stanley Consultants, Inc. (USA), whose present
contract extends through 1980. Provision has also been made in the proposed
loan for additional consultant assistance after this contract expires or to
assist in improvement in organization and managment should the need arise.
The transmission lines and the backbone distribution systems financed under
the project would be constructed by private contractors. The lateral lines
from the backbone and the service drops to the consumers would be undertaken
by the cooperatives through force account.
52.       Planning Unit.  While NEA and the cooperatives have done an excellent
job in their initial years, some improvement in their planning and operational
capabilities will be needed to meet their growing responsibilities in the
years ahead. Ten-year plans are currently compiled for the cooperatives in
the initial feasibility and architectural and engineering studies. These
plans have not usually been updated, however, after the cooperatives have
begun their operations. In addition, neither NEA nor the cooperatives currently
make short and medium-term analysis of their power markets or of likely trends
in consumption by categories and numbers of consumers. It has been agreed
that NEA will form a Planning Unit that would, inter alia, assist the coopera-
tives in preparing five-year plans and forecasts by end-1978 and revised



14 -
ten-year plans by end-1979; thereafter all plans would be updated annually.
It has also been agreed that an information section will be established within
the Planning Unit to consolidate the monthly reports that the cooperatives
submit to NEA on their constuction program and operations as a basis for more
effective monitoring of the activities of the cooperatives (see Section 4.03
of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Insurance.  In general, the cooperatives carry only motor vehicle
insurance and are therefore not adequately insured. NEA, however, is now
in the process of establishing a mutual insurance fund to provide adequate
coverage to the cooperatives. It has been agreed that all cooperatives would
hold insurance coverage for their facilities satisfactory to the Bank (see
Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       System Losses.  System losses in the cooperatives in 1977 averaged
22% of generation; the high losses are mainly due to the fact that the old
distribution networks acquired by the cooperatives are generally inadequate
and overloaded. It has been agreed that NEA will use its best efforts to have
the cooperatives carry out a program of rehabilitation of the old distribution
network in order to reduce losses to a 12% average by 1982 (see Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Audit.  The audit of NEA's annual accounts is carried out by the
Auditor of the Administration who is appointed by the Auditor-General, the
ex-officio Government auditor. The Auditor of the Administration serves
full-time in NEA headquarters and approves all checks prior to payment; the
procedure used has been, in effect, a pre-audit rather than a post-audit
analysis of the balance sheet. It has been agreed that the Government, with
the assistance of the Bank, would undertake a review of the auditing proce-
dures of NEA and make recommendations in time for their incorporation in the
FY79 audit (see Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The audits of
the cooperatives are carried out by NEA staff. However, a year-end audit of
the accounts is not carried out and the annual income statements and balance
sheets of each cooperative have no audit certificate. It has been agreed that
the annual accounts of each cooperative will be certified by auditors accept-
able to the Bank beginning with the year ending December 31, 1978 (see
Section 5.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Analysis
56.       NEA has received all its equity capital in the past (P. 623 million,
or $84 million at end-1976) from Government. Foreign financing has come from
USAID, the Government of Japan, and a small amount from other sources. By end-
1976, NEA had lent P 761 million ($103 million) to about 90 cooperatives;
small amounts had also been lent to private and municipal utlilities. NEA's
lending program for the future is expected to increase significantly; it
plans to lend at least P 3,282 million ($444 million) during the 1977-1982
period, about four times the total loans at end-1976. In addition, about
P 52 million ($7 million) will be required to meet NEA's equipment and develop-
ment expenditures, bringing total capital requirements during 1977-1982 to
P 3,334 million ($450 million). NEA expects to borrow about 59% of the total
from abroad, government equity would provide 37%, and internal cash generation
would provide 6%, including 2% for working cash.



- 15 -
57.       NEA's future financial position is expected to remain sound; the
debt/equity ratio is expected to reach a maximum of 53/47 in 1982. In order
to safeguard this positiDn, NEA has agreed to adopt and to issue a Statement
of Policy (see Annex III to Staff Appraisal Report) which will make clear the
financial objectives of both NEA and the cooperatives and the means to implement
those objectives. The issuance of the Statement of Policy has been made a
condition of loan effectiveness, and any change in the policy Statement would
be subject to the prior approval of the Bank (see Sections 3.01(a), 6.01(b)
and 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, it has been agreed that
the Governed would indemnify NEA for any additional costs in servicing the
proposed loan arising from fluctuations in exchange rates.
58.       The debt service requirements of NEA and the cooperatives have been
small during the initial years of the program, when the cooperatives have been
constructing their systems and have not been required to pay interest during
the grace period on their loans. Debt servicing will begin to increase
significantly from 1978 onwards, however, and careful attention will be needed
to ensure that the cooperatives continue to operate their systems properly and
service their loans. The Statement of Policy will provide that NEA will
conduct its operations, arrange to obtain loan and equity funds, and lend or
otherwise provide funds to borrowers through means to ensure that: (i) adequate
working capital and cash levels are maintained; (ii) its annual operating
expenses and interest payable will not exceed 90% of operating revenues; and
(iii) its cash generation, including operating income, depreciation, and loan
repayments, will be at least 1.2 times annual debt service.
59.       There is currently a large variation in tariff levels among the
cooperatives, ranging from USJ2 per kWh (P 0.15) to USJ16 (P 1.16), depending
on the source of supply, the number of years the cooperative has been in
operation, the degree of development in the area, and the size of the cooper-
ative. The anomalies in the tariffs throughout the country are being addressed
in a tariff study curre!ntly being undertaken under Loan 1460-PH, made to NPC
in 1977. Under this loan, it has been agreed that the Government will consult
with the Bank on its tariff policies when the ongoing tariff study is completed,
which is expected by the end of 1978.
60.       NEA's rural electrification program follows the system and design
standards of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association of the
United States. A 13.8 kV backbone line designed to cover 10 years' load
growth is constructed initially and is the least cost solution for this type
of program.  Laterals are then connected to villages and towns each year to
connect consumers. This approach is appropriate for rural electrification
programs where load growth builds up gradually, after initially heavy and
indivisible investment in the backbone system. The system therefore does not
become fully operational for 10 years and this influences the ability of the
cooperatives to generate revenues during this period.   NEA's policies require
that eiach cooperative be considered as an individual entity which is financially
self-supporting. NEA, therefore, intends to exert its best efforts to have
cooperatives fix and charge tariffs at levels that will recover the economic



- 16 -
costs of supplying power as soon as possible after commencing operations.
NEA's loan agreements with the cooperatives provide that each cooperative will
set tariffs at a level sufficient to cover cash operating expenses /1 in the
first year of operation. The revenue of each cooperative is expected to
cover, during the second through fifth years of operations, cash operating
expenses plus 15%, 25%, 35%, and 50% of the sixth year's debt service, respec-
tively. NEA's Policy Statement provides that NEA will enforce these guidelines
and, in addition, that NEA will be guided by the principle that cooperatives
should achieve as soon as possible after the fifth and not later than the tenth
year of operation an annual rate of return of 8% on revalued net fixed assets
in operation. NEA also plans to monitor closely the financial performance
of each cooperative and to consider steps to alleviate the position of coopera-
tives which experience higher costs due to their remote locations through
merger with other cooperatives or through variations in NEA's relending terms.
Project Cost and Financing
61.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $160.5 million, of which
$81.8 million would be in foreign exchange. The cost estimates include a
physical contingency of 5% for materials and 8% for civil works. The price
contingencies, which amount to 16% of the total costs, have been calculated on
the basis of an assumed inflation rate of 7.5% p.a. from 1978 and 1979 and 7%
thereafter for foreign exchange costs, and 8% p.a. for local costs.
62.       The proposed Bank loan of $60 million would be made to NEA for
20 years, with 5 years of grace. The loan would finance 73% of the foreign
exchange, or 37% of the total cost of the project. NEA expects to finance
from other external sources the balance of $21.8 million of the foreign
exchange costs which will be needed in 1980 to complete the 1979-80 program.
OECF is expected to finance NEA's program in the Cagayan Valley, and NEA has
been discussing the possibility of additional financing with other external
sources. Local costs of $78.7 million equivalent would be provided by the
Government. In the unlikely event that foreign assistance in an amount suffi-
cient to finance all the foreign costs of the 1978-80 program is not forth-
coming, the Government would finance the balance (see Section 2.02 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). The Government has also agreed that, in the event
NEA is unable to meet the additional costs, if any, of service on the Bank
loan resulting from fluctuations in the rate of exchange, the Government will
meet those additional costs (see Section 2.02 (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement).
63.       NEA's initial loans to the cooperatives for the construction of the
backbone system have been on the following terms: (a) 30 years, including five
years of grace with interest at 3% p.a., for those cooperatives connected to
the NPC grid; (b) 35 years, including five years of grace, with interest at
2% p.a., for those that self generate. NEA finances interest on the loan
during the grace period. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be relent on
these terms for initial loans to the cooperatives for the construction of
backbone systems or purchase of assets from existing utilities. About 100
cooperatives have already signed initial loan agreements with NEA and about
20 more are expected to be signed. However, NEA, in accordance with its
Policy Statement, plans to reduce repayment terms and increase interest
/1 Operating expenses exclude depreciation, interest, and amortization.



- 17 -
charges on second and subsequent loans that NEA makes to the cooperatives
commensurate with the increasing capacity of cooperatives to service debts on
harder terms. Such loans would have a maximum term of (a) 25 years, including
five years of grace, wirth interest not lower than 3% p.a., for cooperatives
connected to the NPC grid; and (b) 30 years, including five years of grace,
with interest at 2% p.a., for those cooperatives which generate their own
electricity. These provisions of NEA's Policy Statement take into account the
J~       need to place the rural electrification program gradually on a more commercial
basis while at the same time providing the flexibility which will be needed at
this stage in the program to take into account the varying requirements of
individual cooperatives. This matter will be kept under close review to ensure
that the terms and conditions for relending the proceeds of the loan are appro-
priate and satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
64.       Contracts for equipment and materials of more than $50,000 to be
financed by the proposed loan would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
For purposes of bid comparison, a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers. Contracts for materials and
equipment of $50,000 or less up to an aggregate limit of $350,000, and
civil works contracts (which the Bank would not finance) would be tendered on
a competitive basis in accordance with NEA's normal procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank.
65.       NEA would act: as the procurement agent for all goods and related,
services required for the project. NEA would allocate materials to the
cooperatives on a cost plus handling and freight basis. NEA is planning to
issue invitations to b:id for the first materials and equipment contract
($14 million) after the proposed loan has been approved by the Bank. The
first partial delivery is expected to arrive in the Philippines in November/
December 1978.
Disbursements
66.       The proposed loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of imported equipment and materials, 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally-procured equipment and materials, 65% of the cost of foreign equipment
procured locally, and 100% of consultants' services. As execution of the
rural electrification program is a continuous process, any undisbursed amount
from the proposed loan would be applied to components of the program similar
to those included in the project, after the approval of the Bank.
Economic Benefits and Project Risks
67.       For the purpose of the economic analysis, cooperatives that will
construct backbones, laterals, and service drops over the next two years were
selected as representative of the rural electrification program as a whole.
These cooperatives are expected to energize over one-third of the towns and
villages in the Philippines by the end of 1984.



- 18 -
68.       To serve as a proxy for benefits, direct revenues attributable to
the project were calculated based on the 1977 weighted average border prices
per kWh paid by customers of existing cooperatives.  The only indirect benefit
to be quantified was the savings that would be generated by replacing kerosene
with electricity. Since the net savings on kerosene captures only a part of
the consumers' surplus, the benefits are considerably understated. Using
NPC's marginal cost of power, and the incremental costs of investment and
operation less taxes, all at 1977 border prices, the internal economic rate
of return (IRR) is about 22%; if demand drops by 10%, the IRR would be 17%;
if costs increase by 10%, it would be 18%. The IRR is relatively high since
the power sector in rural areas is only now beginning to be developed, and the
unit administrative costs and the losses within the distribution system are
currently high. Substantially lower system losses and economies of scale can
be expected to emerge as the program expands.
69.       The IRR given above is considered the minimum based on the benefits
which have been quantified. It is expected that substantial additional
benefits will be gained because most of the beneficiaries are among the lowest
income groups (55% are farmers and 80% live in rural areas) and several supple-
mentary programs of NEA are designed to extend economic and social services to
these groups. Electricity would mean less drudgery at home, longer working
hours on farms, especially during peak agricultural seasons, and improved labor
productivity in local industries.
70.       A team of specialists provided by the Government of the Philippines'
Inter-Agency Committee on Ecological Studies is preparing an environmental
assessment of possible adverse consequences for the environment arising out
of the rural electrification program; no adverse impact on the project is
expected. However, it has been agreed that NEA will submit this study for
review by the Bank by June 30, 1978, and consideration will be given at that
time as to which, if any, of its recommendations should be incorporated in the
project.
71.       The main risk associated with the project relates to the fact that
most of the rural electric cooperatives are new and are still within the
five-year grace period of the loans that have been made to them by NEA. A
pattern of repayment performance has therefore not yet emerged. While there
is some variation in the performance of the individual cooperatives, NEA has
been successful in ensuring that the cooperatives follow efficient operating
procedures and has established reasonable standards for setting tariffs. If
some of the cooperatives have difficulty in servicing their loans, NEA has
the authority and will consider steps, such as the merging of less viable
cooperatives into larger cooperatives, and variations in relending terms, to
alleviate the position of the financially weaker cooperatives while keeping
tariffs at reasonable levels. Both the Bank and NEA will closely monitor this
aspect of the program. Ultimately, the success of the rural electrification
program will depend upon the ability of the population in rural areas to pay
for the program, which is directly related to the successful implementation of
the policies and programs which the Goverment has established to increase the
level of development in rural and provincial areas.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Electrifi-
cation Administration, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
the Philippines and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
73.       The issuance by NEA of a Statement of Policy acceptable to the Bank
has been made an additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan (Section
7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bankc.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 13, 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                               Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -------------------------------------------------
_---------------.                                  PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       300.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      109.6                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND        IURKEY          KOREA SOUTH **
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      140.0*    230.0*    410.0*/a              210.0 *    500.0*        280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR;  MILLION)            27.4       36.9      43.3/a               36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY                                           144.0/a
PER SQUARE KM.                        91.0      123.0      140                   71.0        46.0       327.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        32S.0      375.0      395.0/a             263.0         65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          45.1       44.2       43.8                44.3         40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV             17.9       13.2       10.5                13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         84                                         o R .0  72.0  80.0  153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        49.4       55.6       58.5                55.5         54.4'       65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5/a       3.3        3.3                 3.2         2.6/b C    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        3.0        2.8                  3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                  4.0        4.0        3.9                  4       9   4.9/d       6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            25.3       27.6      29.8                 15.0        38.7        41.2
AGE STRJCTIJRE (PERCENT)
O TO 14 YEARS                        45.7       45.6       43.2                45.1         41.7        42.1
IE TO 64 YEARS                        51.6       61.6       54.0                51.8        54.0         54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.7        2.6        2.8                 3.1          4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0 9        0.9        0.9                 0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3/b      1.5       1.3/b                1.1         1.1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..     320.0    4065.0/a              470.0            .      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN]               .        2.0       25.0/a              10.0          8.2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         10100.0   12400 o  15400.0/a              i6700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE  %)          61.0/C    55s. /a   52.67ia               79.0         67.0        50.4/a
IINFMP"I Y-n (1% 9  LABOP  -DCe                     7.6         4.C                  *          4.0         4,-
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  57 OF HOUSEHOLDS             28.8          , ,       * *               22.0        32.g/h       17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             56.2       5^4-       53.3                51.1         60.6 /h     44.5
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.2         .          .                  5.6         2.9  
LOwEsr  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             11.9       11.7       14.7                14.3         9.4 /h      17.7
DISTRIRUTION OF LAND GWNEa.1,
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..                  43.0/c                 .        53.0        26.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..         ..         2.0/c               *          0.9         2.o
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   ..          .    1190.0/d            7970.0      2250 /0  2110 b0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              .          ..       0._0t            6650.0       1770.0 /   2170.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1180.0      B50.0      880.0               890.0       500.0       1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          83.0       93.0      105.7               103.0       110.0        103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               44.0       45.0       55.6                52.0        78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PJLSE          19.0/d    22.0          ..                17.0 /a     22.0 |       19.0
O9ATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               9.0/e      6.6       7.5                   ,,        14,7 /k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        95.0      1t3.0     117.0                 81.0       109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      26.0       49.0       49.0                16.0        28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              10.0       10.0       10.0                12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      14.0/f      6.o/b      9.0                14.0 /b     14.0 1_.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                    ..         .       87.0                79.0         55.0 /1     87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                        .         *      ..                   *         1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHour
PIPED WATER (%)                       80.0       76.0           -                 .         64.0        80.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  17.0       23.0       31.0                  ..        41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (0)                       .        7.0       10.0                  ..        15.0        30.0
CONSUMP T ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          22.0       72.0          . .              78.0        89.0        126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        8.0        8.0                 5.0         4.0          2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           100.0      235.0      291.0               124.0       247.0        307.o
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 1.3       2.0         1.5                1.0         0.7          3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AiNhEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTZS
Pnleso otbesise . noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 19612  for 1971 between 1968 and 1970 end for Mont R-cevoc E0tif-te betweer.
1973 and 1975.
ONP? pet capita data are based en the World Bank Atl- pethdology (1974-76 basti).
05  Korea has leer selected as on objective country on the beets of its stmilor popolacton, location ard iecone level end  like the Phflitpise, it
is e-pe-t-d to g_on r-pidly iK tbe coneg teare.
peiHyIIPINES      196)    /a  1950-55        /b  Ratio of papulati-o oeder 15 and 65 aed  oser to total labor force;               t  A  p-e-rcentage of enplcyne-t;
FHILIPP7NES      _96Q           /d  1960-62;           1962     /f  Not including vocatio-l short-tern coureeo.
1970     /a  As pencentage of -spltynent:    /b  Not Incloding private vocational scheols or vocatioeal short-tern coucoer.
vsRECEN7   T ESA1E1    la t   s  1976;    /b  Ratio of populatien order 15 and 65 and ever to tseal lobor force                 /c  1971;
/d  Registered only; believed te be over-estimate of n-ber actually practicng.
1HAILAND          l970    ;a  1964-66;    ,b  Pablic schools, which in-lade technical edacation 0t the pes-secondary level.
_REFY             1970     /s  1967;    /b  Onc/des 17 eastern prevince;    /c  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;    /e  Ratio of pcpalatioe ard-e  15 end 65
______             __  en~~~~d over to labor focel  years aed ever;    If  15 year  and  -cr,eotdrscepoet                         y   Rlti~tetd orb1;
tDR  _ _ etosable income;    /i  1ncl,ding asnistsnt nraree  and  idwiven;   tl  196u -66;             1k  I9g7-6f        I  Pen
sic veoas and over who tell the censor tabers that they can read and write.
fORth REt. OF   1971       /a  Es peroesotoge of e-ployme-t;    /b  Registered, not all practicing In the country;                ;c  Water pipes  inside.
R1Q,  Novenber 17, 1577
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou  a2 72                                                                        Pepolarion pee nensina person - Ppoplatios dilded by etb-er of practlcifg
Total - Total sorface area co-prissig land area and inland  _areen,                             male and femnln gradvate nurn.s, "trained  or "centified" nursesea
Agris. - hosr recent estitase of agricultural area ueed tenperarily or pen-e-                  asxili-ry persennel. with traintig or expe-ience.
n.tly f-r craps, pa-sores, market 6 kitchen gerden-  or to lie fallso.                     Poulation per hesPitrl bed - ropsiatios dirided by smb-er nf h-op1-al bed,
avslasbln in pablic and privten general and spnnialli-d h-spital and
GNP per sapita (LS$) - GNP per rapita estimatea at curre mt markat prices,                      -ehabilitation neeters; excludes morning h-en  end establish=ents for
caleolesed by same cov_rsi-s, tethed as world 3ahk Atlas (1973-75 basin);                    sssosdiil and preventive carn.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita 6enply of coleries (Y of reaquiem.ental - tpssted tram energy
eqoiealenC of set faod sopplies available in coCtry per capita per das;
Pocolstio   and sital atesissiot                                                                available soppliea  cemprise dMnestir pnoduction, ifports less enports, ac
Bet lation (idt-sear  mullen)S  Ae of Joly fires:  if cot av-ilabie, average                    changes in stock; set aupplies ecnlde animal feed, seeds, scarities ose
of two end-year atitas; 1760, 1970 and 1975 data.                                            in fted processing and leases in distribution; b    eqairemnes ware essimcsee
by FAO based on physiloogiral needs for nas-al activity and health consid-
Preopulien  decsiny  - par square kmc - 1Oid-y-or populantio  par sqa-e kilometer               aring ensiroenmteal tcperat-re, body _nights, age and sea dietribsti-ns of
(100 heetsees) of toste  area.                                                               popuiatior, end sllfcing  lOT. for vesse at hopsehold level.
Ponolasien density - per squre kms of agrln.  land -  onpssind an abase Kenbc for            Per  enpia st pnIy of proetni   (i    per dea) - Protein sosn-ent -     per capita
algrieoltsral land osnly.                                                                    net supply of food per day; met sopply of feed is defined as above; reqniae-
meets far a11  -santries e2tablished by OTSDA Ecnoric Research SevSices
Vital statistics                                                                                proside far a mIinas allnoonce of 60 gras of stotl pronnin per fop, -nd
Crode birth rcae per  ibeossad.  overage - anneal livn births per thousand of                   2, grams of animal and pole protein, of which 10 grams ahbsld be oni-al
mid-year papolation; ten-year atilnetic ae-nagee ending in 1960 med 1970,                     protein; thess standards are Iesr than these of 75 grnom  of total protain
ond file-year  .e.rage ending in 1975 for most recent estieate.                               and 23 grmas of animal pr-teis as en average for the world, propo-ed by FAO
Crude death rate Per thousand.  overage - Anneal deaths par thoseand of mid-year                in the Thied World Ford S-ryey.
p.pslastie; tec-year erithsetie averagea ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per capita  protein  sanply from  animal and pe1e  - Proteie s-pply of food
year average ending in 1975 foe  mast rcemnt estimate.                                        dertved fro  acicals and polses is grams per day.
Icfiam   mortalisy rate (/theu) - Annual daaths of infa=ts cider ama year of age              Seath  case (/fhes) aga  1-4 - 4noal decath  per thoosand in age grpup 1-4
per thousard live births.                                                                     years, tr children in this age groop; sugg-ated as an indiantor of
life ..peceancy at birth  (yrn) - Aceage sumber of yearg of life remaining at                   -alnntrition.
birth; e-eally five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
leg couasties.                                                                              Ed-cation
Crss repredocelon  rate - Average number of live daoghters a w. ana .bill bear                Adfssted enrollment raeio - primary  seheal - Enrollment of all ages aa per-
is her carpal reproductive period if she eperienca present age-specific                       tentage of primary aehepl-age pepolation; inclodes children aged 6-1I yea_s
fertility rates; osually fie-y-er averageas eding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      hon adjusted fir diff--ent lengths of primary edocation; for cosntiesa eith
for developing couneries.                                                                    tsisnrsnl education, cenollment may emceed 100% since - men popia eren belso
povulatien  grmsth  rate (l) - total - C-oposed anneal growth rates of mid-peer                 ar abhav  the efficiel school age.
ppoplation fsr 1950-60, 1960-70 ond 1970-75.                                                Adlsted enrollment ratio - secondary  school - Ctpoped  s obese; secondary
Populatipn  growth rate (7. -  orhab   - Computed liss growth rate of total                     edocatien reqoires at least foer years of approved primary iastruction;
ppopuaniom; different definitionm  of urbeh   areas nny affect smaperability ef               provides genecal, vocational or teacher t-ainimg instructions for pepils
dart  ame-g cesatriei.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; -orreoapede-ce cetrses ace generally escluded.
Urbam papolatifa  (/. of tonal) - Ratio of acbhe  so total population; different              Years of schooling  ervided (first  Imd second  level   l - Total years of
defiinitons of orban areas may affact renpsrehiflyt of data among c-etrseie                   sebhlimg; at sneondary level,  aoatiemal instruction may be parniolly or
roepletely emcluded.
Re strocture  'percent) - Children (0-14 years), cacking-age (15-64 years),                   Vocational enerolment (C. of secondary) - Votational i_stitueions inclade
and retired  i65 years and oeer) as percentages of mid-year ppoplation.                       technical, ind-atrial or other pregrassa which operte idepede-oly o  a
Age de-e-dency  ratio-Sate of populstion under 15 and 65 end over ta these                      departments of secondary inotitutio_a.
of ages 15 thro-gh 64.                                                                      Adols literacy  rare (7. - Literate adults (oble to read and _rete) as per-
Ecoonmic dependecny ratio - Rari  of popolation umder 15 asd 65 and ever to                     centage of totl adult populatioc aged 15 years end acer.
the labor force ie age grop ofI 15-64 years.
Fgniln  planning  - acceptors (cuuIlati-e. thot) -  c-latio- comber of anccptors               oosingD
of birth-contsol dr-iten undenr -spices of national family planninf program                 Persons per roam (echan) - Avesage eumber of pnraons per teas is ontopied
sinte inception.                                                                              convantiomol dwellings in orb an areas; dwellings exc lade non-penmonent
penily  eloncica  - osers (7  at marnied woneml - P-rctages of marriad cocci of                structores and oueoccpied parse.
child-bearing age (15-44 ypers) who use birth-co-trol devi_es to all married                Occupied dweliings  withe-s  dead  eater (') - Otcupied con-eetienal dwellings
ecesec ill same age grsop.                                                                     in orban and roral a eas without inside an o-tsidr piped water facilities
as pereontage of a11 occopied dwellings.
Torlot-est                                                                                     nocees to electricity  (f of a11 dw-llilgs) - Ctneentiana1 dwellings with
Total labor  force  fthousand) - Iconticallp aetiva persams, incladimg armed                    electricity in liei.g quartere as percent of total dellings in tba  and
forces and ur.epleyed hot enclodiog ho-seives, stodets, etc.; definitiso                      rural areas.wu
in vaious.  triia are -ot comparable,                                                       coral dwellinga con_c_ed  to eleotricity  (        C) - Cmputed as sbove for rural
Labor   fence  ic agnicalor- (%) - Agricltural labor farce  (ie fa-ing, forestry,               dwelligs only.
honting and fishing) as per_entsge ef total labor laoce.
Ungmployed  (7. oP labor fence) -  mm-pleynd are  sasally defined an persons eh,              tensompes
are able and willing to take a job ,et of a job on a Riten day: reained  out                ladle r     ven s (per thaw pop) - All types of receivers for radio b-odace
sf a )ob, and nsting wik for a specified minimum perted cat eceedding pnm                     to ge-nera  public per tho-ned of popolation; exclude_  _nlicee  noai-a
week; mey eot be comparable between cosntries doe to different definitioas                     iincouetrice  and in years when regist-rtion 01 radio  st  wse i  eff-et;
of onmoplayed and so-rce of dasa, e.g., ampleymeet office etatistics, sample                   date for rescit Yrs          on be cmparable since mast coonto   aished
s_ryeys, cqmpoisory -nmoploymeit ineorance.                                                    licensing.
Pasene   cas le-hnpp    fse  e   oenpri-s manor cae                         tai,eg
lncome distributitn- Pernntage of private insot  (both in cash and kind)                         lens tais  Pemonh ; nlodm- Pssben aer           , hasc insean m ilitaryai
recetied by richeat 5%, richest 2O%_ posrest 20/., and poorest 4071 of hasse-                  vehicles.
hIds.                                                                                        Eleciricity (whl/yr per cap) -         IAnnul conesaption of indstrial. com rcial
public snd private electricity in kilserats beers par capisa, generally
Distribution  of land pwnsership   - Percentages of 1a-d owned by wealthiest 110Y                based on production data, wishour allwances far lsses gn grids hot sllew-
and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                                iag for imparts and exporta ef electricity.
Newaprint (kgv/r per  rap) - Per eapit. a anneal ramcption in kilograme
health  and  Butritmon                                                                           estimated  Proc domestic preodction plus net imports of newsprint.
Popelaties per physician - Population divided by  -mbaer of practicing
physiacsn  qua-lified fre   a cedical scho so  oniversity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      _           1966-71            1971-76              1976
GNP at Market Prices             17,631       100.0           5.1                6.6                 6.4
V     Gross Domestic Investment         5,519         31.3           5.9               12.5                 6.3
Gross National Saving             4,413        25.0           2.4               10.8                 6.6
Current Account Balance          -1,106        -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS             3,115        17.7          -0.5                5.6                18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS             4,270        24.2           4.1                6.5                 1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million         _          Million       _                 US$               %-
Agriculture           5,156             29.0          8.1         50.0              637            58.0
Industry              6,029             33.9         2.3          14.2            2,621          238.7
Services              6,607             37.1         5.0         30.9             1,321          120.3
Unemployed              .                .           0.8           4.9              .            _
Total/Average    17,792              100.0        16.2        100.0             1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)            % of GDP
1976          1976          1971          1976           1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8           11.3          18.3          13.8            9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7           10.1          16.1          12.2            7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0            1.2           2.2           1.7            1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8            1.6           4.5           3.4            1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976     August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                         6,500      7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100         12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector         3,900      2,400      2,000      5,800      8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600              34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5       10.1        9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0         117.6      154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.7       17.6       31.3        8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7       28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covere.d.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYltENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                      US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     539       21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                          613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                         298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit   -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                          437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178           7.1
Interest Payments (net)            26     -53    -185   Other Manufactures                     456   -  18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138          Total                            2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                     276     318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment          28      125     144
Net MLT Borrowing                                         Public Debt, including Guaranteed          2,216
Disbursements                   456     677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   1,812
Amortization                   312      318      368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             4,028
Subtotal                     144      359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a            143     -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)          110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.2
Gross Reserves                                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  10.5
(end year) /b                1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed               17.7
Petroleum Imports                 573     710      801
IBRD/IDA LENDING, January 31, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed               406.1   28.9
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                               749.6    3.3
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,155.7   32.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.275  7.447        7.418         7.403
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138  0.134        0.135         0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
Ic  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
Id Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STA2ENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of January 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                          Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Bo-rower         Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed              218.5    19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation          34.0                0.3
r                             720-PH     1971                        Rice Processing
"1             and Storage       14.3                5.0
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0                4.4
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                 12.7       3.3
891-PH    1973                         Fisheries           11.6                1.1
939-PH    1973            "            Ports                6.1                3.4
950-PH    1973            "            Second Highways   68.0                 14.5
984-PH    1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                6.3
998-PH    1974                         DFC-DBP I           50.0                7.6
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0               27.0
1035-PH     1974    Repulblic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0               20.1
1048-PH    1974            "            Shipping            20.0               15.4
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0               19.8
1080-PH    1975    Repiblic of the   Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation        17.0               11.7
1102-PH     1975                        Rural
Development      25.0               22.6
1120-PH     1975                        Small and Medium
Industries       30.0                8.0
1154-PH     1976                        Magat
"t             Irrigation        42.0              33.1
1190-PH     1976                        DFC-DBP II          75.0               59.0
1224-T-PH  1976                         Education III       25.0               20.4
1225-PH     1976           "            Livestock II        20.5               13.0
1227-PH     1976           "            Chico Irrigation   50.0                48.1
1272-T-PH   1976                        Manila Urban        10.0                9.2
1282-PH     1976                        Manila Urban        22.0               20.2
1269-PH     1976                        Second Grain
Processing       11.5               11.5
1270-PH    1976                         Second Fisheries  12.0                 10.2
1353-PH     1977                        Third Highways    95.0                 94.6
1367-PH    1977                         Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                 15.0
1374-PH     1977                        Fourth Education  25.0                 24.7
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5               36.5
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               49.9
1415-PH    1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                22.7
1421-PH     1977                        Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                15.0
1460-PH    1977    Nstional Power
Corporation      Seventh Power       58.0              58.0
1506-PH    1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines        Farming            8.0                8.0
1514-PH    1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0               30.0
Total /a                                        1,265.5    32.2    749.6
of which has been repaid
(Bank and ehird parties)                        109.8        -
Total now ouestanding                           1,155.7    32.2
Amount sold                        22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                 13.1              8.9        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                 1,146.8    32.2
Total undisbursed                                 746.3      3.3    749.6
/a A loan of $65 million was approved by the Executive Directors on
February 28, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of January 31, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973 Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0      4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                    -     4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5        -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -      2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -        3.5
Total gross commitments                      71.0    15.3       86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or canceled                         24.1    12.0       36.1
Total commitments now held by IFC            46.9      3.3      50.2
Undisbursed                                    5.0       -       5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing 'Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow fundls under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora--Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 MiLllion Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which, are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that: they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port.  With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan      421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 klillion Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen its planning
and implementation capability for its land settlement program and will also
upgrade three existing land settlement areas. The Loan became effective
on October 27, 1977.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated. total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1979
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1978.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national and
rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts have
been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road restor-
ation/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention has
been given to this problem and, as a result, these components are expected to
accelerate during the coming year.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultutal education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All but 6 of the 32 project institutions
have been completed; the remainder will be completed by the end of 1977.
Three fourths of the technical assistance program has been completed. Cost



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of inflation and earlier
lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of equipment purchased has
been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight--year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher Iraining and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is to assist the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the VisayEs; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project  was    submitted to the Executive Directors in December.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
CloE;ing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan will finance: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial c-ities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Indust:rial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No, 1052   Privat:e Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a, whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Loan was signed on February 9, 1978 and is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
'iUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: 6 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project: National Electrification
Administration
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: April 1977
Date of first Bank mission to consider the Project: April 10, 1977
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: September 6, 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: February 28, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 30, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank mission will visit Manila in July 1978 to review progress in
establishing the planning unit and in procurement of equipment and materials
needed for the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) NEA will continue to exercise franchising powers in areas within
its jurisdiction (para. 48).
(b)  NEA would form a planning unit that would prepare five-year plans
for all cooperatives by end-1978 and ten-year plans by end-1979
(para. 52).
(c) NEA would establish an information section in the planning unit
(para. 52).
(d)  all cooperatives would hold insurance coverage satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 53).
(e) NEA would agree on a program of rehabilitation of the old distribu-
tion systems to reduce power losses to a 12% average by the end of
1982 (para. 54).
(f) the Government, with the assistance of the Bank, will undertake a
review of the auditing procedures of NEA and make recommendations
in time for their incorporation in the FY79 audit (para. 55).
(g)  annual income statements and balance sheets of each cooperative
would be certified by auditors acceptable to the Bank beginning
with the year ending December 31, 1978 (para. 55).



ANNEX lil
Page 2 of 2
(h) NEA would issue a Statement of Policy, satisfactory to the Bank, as
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 57).
(i) The Government will provide NEA with the funds required for the
completion of the program through 1980 (para. 62.).
(j) NEA will relend the proceeds of the loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 63).



P.                                                                     .3                        Fm    r)
P
'-04 2 g.-  222000 C" Cm' m 3:  v., C., w -.r; o, .0   C, g'n        .92 CT P  ? F         F,
M.
9  0,
2zz          .0.                                          mz                            > -
Z:5                                                                             -m.
H  MM=-        .-OR        G. --.55 M:                      O,-.,.V? Z_ < -_ O     z
z                                                           coo                                  -                   z
00                                                     ZB9'       O        >
<                                                                          <>
>              O                            6)           - C)                                   b 0
0CC                  >                                                      Z
M                                                                                                                    0                                                    > 0
>
9 2 T    P CIO  mm M,    OW O, Swlls Z M 5"f-'P P            M'          nm
>M                                            > M         MM
0-'-_- _-IT91v191 M'- 2
M                                                                                                                                        M-P '2
g   -O    O O O
UN
C) 3 g S                                   M .0                  33 - LT >    0 0
5'a M                               mm    M.                   MO
S, la,  S 'Z? R 9 z                    z           z              Z5
oz z
5 5   O
O               0
0                               StEt  a 0                         >    -2L-
z                              >
>                               >        ,,O z                                  <
z            >                  z           >
>            0                  >           0
'ij                       0
>
cr
]O
'O                                                                                                  >  M
M,   _7
VID
-n 0
C  C0   ZD 3
:3
-0               0  :3    Z
0
S
O 0
M 0
>
C)           Z 03
0   0                             -2         C M
>
M
>
O
0



