CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1547 PH
Gu aratee Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIOKL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 10, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1547 PH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and National Electrification Administration (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars
($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as


﻿-2-
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor undertakes: (i) to provide, if
necessary, such funds to the Borrower as shall be required by
the Borrower for timely completion of the Rural Electrification
Program; and (ii) that in the event the Borrower is unable to meet
from its revenues the additional cost, if any, resulting from the
changes in the rates of exchange between the currency of the
Guarantor and the amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account in the
various currencies, including the interest payable to the Bank on
such withdrawals, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower
funds sufficient to meet such additional costs.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Guarantor: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes, that
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Guarantor
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c) Th2 foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.


﻿- 3 -
(d) The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the
foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on the
assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to
the extent that the Guarantor is unable within the limits of the
laws in force in its territories to make this undertaking effec-
tive, the Guarantor will give to the Bank an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor undertakes that the Borrower
shall continue to exercise the authority over the granting of
electric power utility franchises in the territories of the
Guarantor.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, in consultation with
the Bank, undertake a review of the auditing procedures for the
Borrower's accounts, and shall make suitable arrangements in time
for completion of the Borrower's audit reports in respect of the
fiscal year 1979 on the basis of recommendations arising from
said review.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines


﻿-4-
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respect we names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Geronimo Velasco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


