Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GG  Z,    _
Report No. 8367-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
MAY 6, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only In the perfomnance of
their offcial dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of March 31, 1990)
Currency Unit   Tanzanian Shilling
SDR 1.0 = US$1.29
US$ 1.0 = SDRO.78
TSh 1.0   US$0.005
US$1.0   TSh 200
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =       3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (tonnes)  =       1.023 short tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADT                      =     Average Daily Traffic
AfDB                     =     African Development Bank
AGC                      =     Attorney General's Chambers
ATC                      =     Air Tanzania Corporation
CML                            Central Materials Laboratory
CODAP                          Coordination Office for Donor Assisted Projects
CRRP                     =     Core Rural Roads Program
CTB                      =     Central Tender Board
DANIDA                         Danish International Development Agency
DCA                            Development Credit Agreement
DCM                      =     Construction and Maintenance Department
DE                             District Engineer
DEM                            Electrical and Mechanical Department
DMDA                     =     Manpower Development and Administration Dept.
DPR                            Planning and Research Department
DSM                      =     Dar es Salaam
DSM Tech.                      Dar es Salaam Technical College
EEC                      =     European Economic Community
ERP                            Economic Recovery Program
ERR                            Economic Rate of Return
ESAMI                          Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
FINNIDA                  =     Finnish International Developmient Agency
FRG                      =     Federal Republic of Germany
FY                       =     Fiscal Year
GDP                      =     Gross Domestic Product
GOT                      =     Government of Tanzania
HDM Model                =     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
ICB                            International Competitive Bidding
IRP                      =     Integrated Roads Project



MCTI                          MCW's Morogoro Training Institute
tCW                     -    Ministry of Communications and Works
MLGC                          Ministry of Local Government and Cooperatives
m-m                           Man-months
i          MOF                      =    Ministry of Finance                                      -
MPTS                    -    Manpower Training Section
N.A.                    =     Not Applicable
NCC                           National Construction Council
NIT                           National Institute of Transport
NORAD                   =     Norwegian Agency For Development Cooperation
NRSC                          National Road Safety Council
NTC                     =     National Transport Corporation
ODA-UK                  =     Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
OED                     =     Operations Evaluation Department
OGL                     =     Open General License Facility
p.a.                    =     per annum
PMO                     =     Prime Minister's Office
PPF                     =     Project Preparation Facility
RE                      =     Regional Engineer
REO                     =     Regional Engineer's Office
RETCO                         Regional Transport Corporation
RRD                     =     Rural Roads Division
SADCC                   =     Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
SATCC                   =     Southern Africa  Transport  and  Communications
Commission
SIDA                    =     Swedish International Development Authority
SOE                     =     Statement of Expenditures
TAC                     =     Tanzania Audit Corporation
TAfT                    =     Technical Assistance ane Training
TANZAM                  =     Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA                  =     Tanzania-Zambia Railways Authority
THA                     =     Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRC                     =     Tanzania Railways Corporation
TRE                     =     Trunk Roads Engineer
TRMD                    =     Trunk Road Maintenance Department
UDA                     =     Shirika la Usafiri Dar es Salaam
UDSM                    -     University of Dar es Salaam
UNCTAD                  =    United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP                    =     United Nations Development Programme
USAID                   =     United States Agency for International Development
voc                     =     Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd                     =     Vehicles per Day
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ......................................
I.    Transport Sector Development Strategy
A.    Introduction ................. ...........  0......................... 
B.    Current State of the Transport Sector .........  O...* .....*     2
C.    Government Objectives and Policy in the Sector ...........  .     4
D.    Strategy for Transport Sector Recovery ..............             5
E.    Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery in the Sector   .....    9
F.    Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector . ............     11
G.    Rationale for Bank Involvement .      ........      .........   12
II.   The Roads Sector
A.    Introduction................                                     13
B.  Issues.............  14
C.    Diagnosis of the Problems..........                              15
D.  Strategy for Change                        .. 18
III.  Strategy for Stabilizing Road Network Conditions
A.    Obi( .ives       ................................................    23
B.    Re..ailitation of Trunk and Regional Road Networks    ........   24
C.    Road Maintenance Program ..................................   26
D.    Resource Mobilization  ...... .............................   ........    27
E.    The Role of IDA in the Integrated Roads Project .... ......    28
IV.   The Project
A.    Project Scope and Objectives .... ..........................     29
B.    Project Description         .......................................    29
C.    Institutional Support .....................  * ............... . ....    31
D.    Vehicle Weight Control and Road Safety ...#...... ...........   33
E.    Revision of Procurement Regulations and Procedures ........    34
F.    Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Program ..        ..................   34
G.    Road Maintenance Program .......    ...................          35
H.    Freight Passenger and Air Transportation ........ ......*    37
I.    Project Cost Estimates and Financing .....     .................    37
J.    Implementation and Present Status of the Project .. ........   39
K.    Procurement    .      ...................................... .    40
L.    Disbursements .................................................   41



M.   Reporting and Auditing ......................... ..........   43
N.   Environmental Impact and Involvement of Women .......... ...   43
V.   Economic Justification
A.   Project Justification .......    .............................   44
B.   Project Benefits and Beneficiaries  .    ..................   45
C.   Economic  Returns  ..........................................  46
D.   Sensitivity Analysis and Risk ...... . .......................   48
VI.  Agreements Reached and Recommendations ..........................   49
r
Several preparation missions were fielded prior to appraising this project. This
report has been prepared by Messrs. M. Konishi (Sr. EconomistlTask Manager), P.
Morris (Principal Transport Engineer), S. Berkman (Vocational Training
Specialist), Gopalkrishnan (Procurement Specialist), K. Rogers (Equipment
Management Specialist -Consultant), B. Butcher (Organization Specialist -
Consultant),  0.  Ellevseth  (Highway  Engineer  -  Consultant),  G. Wilson
(Economist/Financial Analyst), Ms. A. Fantaye (Operations Assistant) and Ms.
Alice Da Costa (Administrative Secretary) on the basis of their findings during
an appraisal mission in June/July 1989. Ms. Laura Selwold and Mrs. Hulda Hunter
produced the graphics and charts and Ms. Hanni Najar assisted in processing this
report.



ANNEXES
1-1   Transport-Related Bank Group Projects in Tanzania
2-1   Classification of Road Networks
2-2   Chart ls MCW: Present Headquarters Organization
Chart 2: Proposed Reorganization at HQ: Roads End Engineering
Chart 3As Organization of Model Regional Engineer's Office
Chart 3B: Model Roads Organizatior. in Regional Engineer's Office
Chart 3C: Interconnection Between Regional Engineer's Office and HQ
2-3   Establishment of Plant Pools for Road Equipment and Vehicles
3-1   Annual Physical Targets - Trunk and Regional Roads
3-2   Government Road Budget Requirement
4-1   Summary of Technical Assistance to MCW
4-2   Work Force Development and Training Program
4-3   Outline of Procurement Changes
4-4   Evaluation and Impact Criteria for Rural Roads
4-5   Implementation Schedule for Road, Bridge and Ferry Works
4-6   Tentative List of Equipment for Eight Local Contractors
4-7   Equipment Rehabilitat. on Program and Tentative List of Equipment Required
for Private ar  1ICW Plant Pools
4-8   Management Assiibtance to ATC
4-9   Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
4-10 Key Actions for Implementing IDA-Financed Components
4-11 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-12 Participation of Women in Road Maintenance - Recommended Guidelir.es
5-1   Economic Justification: Trunk Roads
5-2   Economic Justification: Regional Roads
MAP   Integrated Roads Project
Documents in the Project File
1.    Documentation for the Transport Sector Donors' Conference (December 1987 -
Arusha, Tanzania)
2.    Agricultural Feeder Roads Study (Cowiconsult, August 1987)
3.    Rural Roads Operations and Management Study (Cowiconsult, February 1989)
4.    Feasibility Study: Chalinze-Segera-Tanga-Moshi-Arusba Road  (Norconsult
April 1989)
5.    Feasibility Study: Group 3 Roads (Gauff Ingenieure, August 1989)
6.    Feasibility Study: Group 4 Roads (Inter Consult/Mott, Hay & Anderson, June
1989)
7.    Feasibility Study: Group 5 Roads  (Makconsult/John Burrow & Partners,
September 1989)
8.    Feasibility Study: Group 6 Roads (Howard Humphreys/M-Konsult, October 1989)
9.    Feasibility Study: Group 7 Roads (Howard Humphreys/M-Konsult, April 1989)
10.   Report on the 'Maintenance Management Workshop" (ESAMI, Arusha, September
1988)
11.   Labour-Based Contractor Training for Rural Roads in Tanzania - Project
Proposal - ILO (September 1989)
12.   Road Network Stabilization Program - A. Bandari (July 1989)
13.   Morogoro Training Project - Final Report (Crown Agents - 1988)
14.   National Institute of Transport - Study and Project Proposal (June 1989)
15.   MCW Materials Laboratory - Study and Project Proposal (February 1990)
16.   Morogoro Comworks Training Institute - Progress Report (April 1989)



17.   MCW Headquarters Reorganization - Management Report (Barry Butcher -
October 1989)
18.   MCW Equipment Management - Management Report (Ken Rogers - February 1990)
19.   IRP Donors' Conference Documents (various dates)
20.   Tanzania - Financial Performance of the Public Transport Sector (Ian Heggie
- January 31, 1988)
21.   Air Tanzania Corporation: Strategic Evaluation and Corporate Restructuring
(Jamil Baz - April 1989)
22.   Survey Report on Public Sector Fleet to Determine Non-Operational Vehicles
in The Mainland of Tanzania (R.K. Singh - September 1988)
23.   Agricultural Supply to the Transport Sector in Tanzania (Kristy Cook -
December 1987)
24.   Facts and Figures in Transport and Communications (MCW - June 1989)
25.   IRP - Outline Terms of References for Technical Assistance to MCW
26.   Proposed Road Network Stabilization Programme 1989-1999 (MCW - June 1989)
27.   Working Paper on Work Force Development



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Communications and Works, Ministry of Finance, Air
Tanzania Corporation, National Transport Corporation, National
Institute of Transport, and National Construction Council
Amount:           SDR 139.9 million         (UlS$180.4 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:      The project, with a total cost of US$871.1 million, is expected
to be parallel financed by: IDA, DANIDA, Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG), Italy, FINNIDA, ODA (UK), NORAD, EEC, USAID.
The Netherlands, Switzerland, Ireland, the African Development
Fund  (AfDF), UNDP,  and the Saudi Fund.   Total external
financing amounts to US$790.6 million equivalert with a
financing gap of US$33.8 million; specific amounts from each
co-financier is shown in the financing plan on page (iii).
The Government is expected to contribute US$80.5 million, plus
annual road maintenance budgets, from its own resources; the
annual budget requirements are within the ceilings set in the
recent Public Expenditure Review (Report No. 7559-TA of May
22, 1989).
Project           The primary objective of the proposed project is to restore
Objective:        Tanzania's trunk and regional road networks, which have become
an obstacle to the sustainability of the economic recovery
program, and to develop MCIW's institutional capacity to
properly manage the networks. In particular, the project will
assist the Government in developing strong management and
technical capacity to 'naintain the trunk and regional road
networks, and transform MCW from a construction-oriented
ministry to an administration/contract management-oriented
ministry.  The physical target is to have, by 1966, 60Z of
trunk roads in good condition from current 15Z and to
selectively rehabilitate the regional road network in eleven
of the most agriculturally productive regions to have 502 of
the network in those regions in good condition from the current
102, and to install regular maintenance on 80S of the trunk
and 60Z of the regional road networks.
Project           The proposed project would consist of: (a) institutional
Description:      support to strengthen Tanzania's road management capacity,
including support to MCW management and the Regional Engineers
Offices, domestic contractors, University of Dar es Salaam
Engineering Faculty, Arusha Technical College, Central
Materials Laboratory, technician training at the Morogoro



- ii -
Comworks Training Institute, road safety program, labor based
construction methods, revision of Government procurement
regulations, and project coordination; (b) civil works program
including rehabilitation of 1,080 km and resealing of 620 km
of trunk paved roads, rehabilitation of about 2,550 km of
unpaved trunk roads and upgrading to paved standard of about
340 km, rehabilitation of 30 bridges and minor structures along
trunk roads, improvements of about 10 vehicular ferry
crossings, rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of regional roads
in eleven core regions, renovation of MCW headquarters and
REOs, and upgrading office technology and communications; (c)
road maintenance support program including establishment and
equipping of privately-operated plant pools, rehabilitation
of existing equipment and establishing an autonomous
commercially-operated MCv plant pooL Lo manage the  toad
maintenance equipment, rehabilitation of equipment by contract,
road maintenance by contract, hiring of equipment from plant
pools, and emergency road works; and (d) management assistance
to Air Tanzania Corporation, National Transport Corporation
and Dar es Salaam bus companies.
Justification     The main justification of the project is that Tanzania's
and Risks:        economic recovery program cannot be sustained unless the
transport costs are reduced and accessibility to the primary
agricultural areas are improved. The rehabilitation works (83Z
of project cost) are estimated to have an economic rate of
return of about 241.   The success of the project hinges
ultimately on MCW's implementation capacity. The particular
risks include: (i) slow progress on privatization initiatives;
(ii) failure to effect the agreed procedures to delegate
executive authority for contracting goods, works and services;
and (iii) failure to meet the agreed road budget targets. To
guard against these risks, experiences learned from past
projects have been incorporated into the project design: (i)
by undertaking the main institutional and policy changes prior
to project effectiveness, including (a) changes in the
procurement regulations, (b) appropriation of the agreed road
budget for the first year of project implementation, and (c)
reorganization of roads administration; (ii) by conditioning
the approval of road work contracts financed by IDA on the
Government appropriating the agreed annual road budget; (iii)
by completing the engineering works for the first two years
of the program prior to Board presentation; (iv) by developing
closer coordination amongst the Government, donors and IDA;
and (v) by stationing in Tanzania an experienced highway
engineer from the Bank to assist the Government in coordinating
implementation of the project.



- HIi -
Estimated Costs                       Local              Foreign             Total
(US$ Million)
Institutional Support                 10.6                37.8               48.4
Rehabilitation Program               141.8               436.3              578.1
Ma_.r.tenance Program                 22.8                46.2               69.0
Freight and Passenger Transport        1.1                 4.1                5.2
Total Base Cost       176.3               524.4              700.7
Physicdl Contingencies                19.4                59.6               79.0
Price Contingencies                   23.3                68.1               91.4
42.7               127.7              170.4
TOTAL COST              219.0               652.1              871.1
Financing Plan:
IDA                                   24.7               155.7              180.4
DANIDA                                11.4                45.6               57.0
FRG                                    0.6                31.4               32.0
ITALY                                  0.0                91.7               91.7
FINNIDA                                9.9                38.5               48.4
ODA                                    1.8                11.8               13.6
tJNDP                                  0.6                 2.3                2.9
NORAD                                  7.4               .29.1               36.5
EEC                                   37.5               133.5              171.0
USAID                                 32.3                 0.4               32.7
The Netherlands                        4.0                14.0               18.0
Switzerland                            0.9                 9.9               10.8
Ireland                                1.8                 3.0                4.8
AfDF                                   2.7                42.5               45.2
SAUDI FUND                             0.0                11.8               11.8
Financing Gap                          2.9                30.9               33.8
GOVERNMENT                            80.5                 0.0               a0.5
TOTAL                 219.0               652.1              871.1
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA FY:      91    92      93      94     95     96      97     98
Amnual       12.9  28.2   34.2   38.4   28.2   21.4   12.0    5.1
Cumulative  12.9  41.1   75.3  113.7  141.9  163.3  175.3  180.4
Economic Rate of Return:   242
Map:                            IBRD No. 22067



TANZANIA
INIEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
I.   TRANSPORT SECTC1 DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
A. Introduction
3 .01        L.1 1567, Tanzania's leadership introduced sweeping economic and
social changes and embarked on an era of socialism. The new priorities of the
country, as enunciated in the Arusha Declaration, were directed towards self-
reliance, development of a system of basic education, and broad-based rural
;         development.  The public sector was viewed as the vanguard of development, with
public expenditure as the principal means of transforming the economy. By the
early 1970s, the policy effects had led to a rapid growth in the public sector
through: (a) the nationalization of large scale indnistries and the financial
system, the formation of Ujamaa (communal) villages, and the replacement of
farmers' cooperatives with state-run crop marketing authorities; (b) dramatic
increases in the provision of social services; and (c) expansion of centrally
managed activities.
1.02        By the end of the 1970s, the economy was faltering: industrial output
had begun to decline, agriculture was stagnating, while the fiscal situation
deteriorated sharply with deficits averaging about 16Z of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). In agriculture, parastatal marketing monopolies dampened incentives for
farm output growth, and involuntary resettlement disrupted productive
relationships in rural areas.  in industry, inappropriate project designs and
a heavily protective environment resulted in an import dependent sector with,
in many instances, an inefficient production structure. By this time, it was
clear that the Government was no longer capable of financir,g the extensive
services which it had committed to delivering, and the poor performance of many
Government agencies constituted a bottleneck to economic growth.
1.03        The 1984/85 Budget represented a turning point, and provided the
first indication of a new pragmatism in the Government's economic menagement.
The Tanzanian Shilling (TSh) was devalued by one-third, parastatal subsidies were
cut, an import liberalization program was initiated through the implementation
of an "own-funds imports program", and restrictions on the movement of grain were
eased.   Positive responses to these measures encouraged the Government to
consider a more comprehensive and systematic policy reform program to deal with
the economic crisis, and to mobilize external support to bridge the expected
financing gap. In 1986 the Government launched the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP). The measures initiated at the time included: (a) significant exchange
rate adjustments, moving towards an equilibrium rate; (b) adjustments in interest
rates, which were aimed at achieving real positive rates; (c) increases in
producer prices in real terms for export crops; and (d) significant reduction
in the number of price-controlled items. These actions were followed up with
(i) trade liberali'ation measures including export retention accounts and the
Open General License Facility (OGL); (ii) gradual dismantling of administrative
controls over prices and distribution: and (iii) progressive devaluation of the
currency. The economic response to these reforms was positive, with GDP growing



-2-
at between 4 and 52 p.a., sufficient to enable per capita income and consumption
to rise for the first time in several years. Agricultural production, helped
by good weather and stronger price signals, has increased substantially over the
past two years. Similarly, manufactured and other non-traditional exports, have
increased by nearly 6O0 over the same period.
1.04        Unfortunately, although not unexpectedly, the recovery and the strong
jump in the level c. economic activities have exposed how much the basic services
and infrascructure have deteriorated over the past decade and a half of economic
decline.  The banking system, with the majority of its funds tied up in non-
performing loans to the Government and parastatals, is essentially bankrupt and
is incapable of providing fresh capital for new investments. Farmers responding
to strong price signals have seen their efforts frustrated by inadequate
processing facilities and marketing rigidities. Movement of goods and people
throughout the country is at a virtual standstill due to severe deterioration
in the country's transport network.   These and other factors have made it
difficult,  or  impossible,  for  the  country  to  capitalize  fully  on  the
liberalization policies  adopted by the Government under the ERP.   It is
remarkable that, despite these difficulties, the economy still responded strongly
to the liberalization and adjustment efforts of the Government. How long such
recovery can be sustained depends heavily upon fundamental changes in the role
of Government and how quickly some of the physical and institutional issues can
be addressed and rectified. The challenge for policymakers in the next stage
of the recovery process is to effectively address the problems of the public
sector, to lift the burden of poorly performing state enterprises off the
economy, to continue the shift from direct controls on economic activity to
indirect levers working through macroeconomic policy and the market-oriented
price signals, to get the Goverrunent out of businesses that can be effectively
and commercially delivered by the private sector and to improve the effectiveness
of Government programs in areas such as physical and social infrastructure where
the state is the main provider.
B. Current State of the Transport Secto:
1.05        A well functioning transport system is crucial to the sustained
economic recovery of Tanzania. The main linkages between transport and economic
recovery are evident in four key areas: (a) the size of the country, its
structure of production and its population distribution; (b) the cost to the
economy of an unreliable, deteriorated ne*work; (c) the fiscal implications of
inefficient transport operations; and (d) the sector's importance as a major
foreign exchange earner.
1.06        First, the pattern of settlement and economic activity in the cc mntry
gives transportation an extraordinarily strategic role in economic development.
Tanzania has a large territory (slightly smaller than France and Spain combined)
with a widely dispersed population, mainly around its geographic periphery.
Agriculture, accounting for 54X of GDP, is dominated by smallholders scattered
in small rural communities, while the major markets *and the processing and
collection centers for crops, as well as the distribution points for agricultural
inputs and fuel, are concentrated in urban centers located at considerable
distances from each other and from the major coastal seaport of Dar es Salaam.



Exports are dominated by primary agricultural commodities of high bulk but low
value. Growth in agricultural output, which will constitute the primary basis
for growth in the economy for the foreseeable future, is predicated on the
transport system being able to efficiently integrate the rural communities with
the urban centers and facilitate reliab.e and cost-effective transport of export
crops from the major collection points to the port of Dar es Salaam. These two
roles have not been effectively performed by the transport system and, as
discussed in the next paragraph, the cost to the economy has been enormous.
1.07        Second, Tanzania's road infrastructure, which is crucial to the
linkage of rural communities to the urban areas, has deteriorated markedly over
the last decade and a half and its coverage of rural areas is limited even by
regional standards. The state of the roads, two thirds of which are impassable
or unmaintainable, imposes significant penalties on aericultural activity through
its effect on vehicle operating costs, delayed evacuation and damage to crops.
Losses imposed on the economy through higher vehicle costs alone are estimated
at up to US$150 million p.a., equivalent to about one-third of the country's
export earnings.   Tanzania's domestic railway system, which is strategically
located to serve most of the major urban centers, has been unable to meet the
demand for low-cost, long-distance transport of export crops and of critical
inputs such as oil and fertilizer in recent years, due to its poor operational
performance.   As a consequence,  significant stockpiles of cotton - one of
Tanzania's major export crops - for which road transport is inappropriate on
competitive grounds, have built up over the last few years and a significant
proportion of the other export traffic., as well as bulk inputs, have been
diverted to roads. The total cost to the economy of scockholding and diversion
of traffic, that an effectively performing railway would have been able to handle
is of the order of US$40 million p.a. For the ports, the long dwell time of
containers in the port, caused by the inefficiency of operations as well as
cumbersome customs procedures to clear the cargo, costs the economy about US$10
million p.a. in working capital costs and demurrage charges (assuming excess
dwell time is 20 days pe_. imported comntainer).  Based on these calculations, it
is conceivable that the economy is losing nearly US$200 million p.a. in direct
economic costs due to the deteriorated transport infrastructure and its
inefficient operation. If the indirect costs such as loss of crop, theft, loss
of export market, spoilage, etc, due to the current transport problems are taken
into consideration, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to see how
Tanzanian goods could be competitive in the world market, or how the cost of
living could be held down. Without significant rehabilitation and actions to
restructure the modes of operation and maintenance of the roads and rai'ways.
these costs and physical impediments will constitute a major barrier to sustained
economic recovery.
1.08        Third, Tanzania's transport system is characterized by a significant
degree of public sector participation.   The transport parastatals' financial
performance has deteriorated substantially in the last decade with most of them
making losses or generating low returns on their assets as a result of
inefficient utilization of capacity, high fixed costs and sub-economic prices.
In 1987, the combined losses of the transport parastatals amounted to US$55
million. Government budgetary support of the transport parastatals' cash flow
shortfall is small as most of it is financed by short-term borrowings from the
state-owned financial system or deferred payments to suppliers. Although not



- 4 -
directly affecting the level of the Government's current account deficit, this
mode of financing has significant and adverse implications on current levels of
domestic credit creation and the future level of Government budgetary support
to restructure unsustainable levels of short-term indebtedness to the banking
system and suppliers. Addressing the underlying causes of the parastatals' poor
financial performance will contribute to the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic
climate, which is a key basis for the incentive structures set in place by the
ERP. The Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW), in 1989, gave instructions
for each entity to: (a) develo? a corporate financial strategy to make it
financially autonomous; (b) develop an incentive scheme to increase productivity
of its workers; and (c) the Board to take greater responsibility in ensuring
financial and operational efficiency.
1.09        Finally, the transport sector has an important role to play in the
generation of additional sources of foreign exchange for the country. Tanzania
offers the intrinsically lowest cost route to a seaport for Zambia, Rwanda, and
Burundi; and is an important alternative route for the transport of Uganda's.
Malawi's and eastern Zaire's foreign trade traffic, largely because of the
possibility of using the railways network for most of the distance, and because
they can diversify their use of alternative transport corridors rather than being
held hostage to one route. However, this potential has never been fully tapped,
largely because the cost advantages have been significantly outweighed by the
inefficiencies of the roads and railways leading to extensive detention of
traffic in transit. Improvements in the service reliability of the railways and
the operating capacity of the port of Dar es Salaam and a generally more
commercial orientation of financial management would allow Tanzania to increase
its net foreign currency earnings from the transport sector. Currently, the port
subsector is the second largest foreign exchange earner in the country after
coffee, earning more than US$36 million p.a. Potentially, the transport sector
can earn between US$55 and 75 million p.a. (equivalent to about 12-182 of total
export earnings) in foreign exchange if the system were operated more
effectively.
C. Government Objectives and Policy in the Sector
1.10        Given the critical state of the transport sector, the Government
called a Transport Sector Donors' Conference in December 1987 in Arusha.  At
the Conference, a draft National Transport Policy document was presented along
with a Conference document entitled "Programme for Transport Sector Recovery"
which outlined the basic policy, institutional changes and rehabilitation
requirements of the sector in order to reestablish the transport infrastructure
and services to cater to the requirements of the economy. As enunciated at the
Conference, the basic objective of the Government in the transport sector is to
generate immediate improvements in the supply of transport services in the first
instance, followed by a more sustained growth in the capacity and the volume of
services commensurate with the expansion taking place under ERP. As outlined
in the Conference document, sustained improvement in the delivery of transport
services will require major effort and change in the way transport has been
managed in the past. The basic reforms needed in the sector are outlined below:



-5-
(a)   deteriorated  infrastructure  requires  a major  shift  in  public
expenditure towards the roads sector. Over the past decade and a
half, there has been a precipitous drop in the funds allocated for
recurrent and development funding for the road sector: Tanzania
spent only 3-6Z of its total public expenditures on roads, where 10-
202 is normal for countries with far better maintained road networks;
(b)   a more  flexible  and  dynamic  response  to  road  infrastructure
development requires a major institutional change to move away from
the existing highly centralized administrative system to a more
decentralized system with greater delegation of authority;
(c)   to improve the financial and operational efficiency of transport
parastatals, commercially oriented pricing and management must be
adopted,   including  cost-based  tariff  setting   (taking  into
consideration proper depreciation of assets and improvements in
operational efficiency), bonuslincentive schemes to reward good
performance, and a rigorous cost control systems. The enunciated
Government policy is for all parastatals to generate at least an
operating surplus;
(d)   similar to the financial objectives for parastatals, cost recovery
for the road sector must be improved, i.e. the revenues generated
from the road sector should cover at least the recurrent and periodic         o
road maintenance cost;
(e)   to improve provision of road transport services, all administered
tariffs for trucking and passenger transport sector should be
removed;
(f)   to  develop  the  local  capacity  in  the  transport  sector  more
vigorously, private sector development should be promoted in the
areas of civil works, engineering consultancy, mechanical services,
truck and passenger transportation, and air charters; and
(g)   to promote regional integration, customs procedures and transit
arrangements should be simplified to improve the ease with which
transit cargo can pass through Tanzania.
D. Strategs for Trananort Sector Recovery
1.11        To the Government's credit and owing to its willingness to undertake
major reforms in the transport sector, the donor community responded positively
to the recovery program presented at the Transport Sector Donors' Conference.
In partnership with IDA, the Government has formulated three major programs to
address the shortcomings of the transport sector: (a) the proposed Integrated
Roads Project; (b) the recently approved Port Modernization Project II; and (c)
a proposed Railway Restructuring Project.   With the majority of required
financing secured or pledged, the investments in the transport sector, supported
by Bank Group operations, will total US$1,300 million over the next five to eight
years.  The largest allocation is for the roads sector with US$980 million,



- 6 -
followed by railways with an estimated US$200 million, and the port sector with
US$120 million. The magnitude of investment foreseen is consistent with the
recommendation of the Public Expenditure Review (May 1989 Report No. 7558-TA),
which suggests a major shift of public funds to the transport sector, increasing
to over 202 of the total development budget expenditure. The following sections
outline the development strategy for each of the subsectors as formulated in the
proposed projects.
1.12        Roads.    The deterioration of the road networks has been caused
primarily bys (a) inadequate funding for road maintenance; (b) a cumbersome and
inefficient institutional structure for road administration; (c) a highly
centralized and bureaucratic procurement and administrative decision-making
process; and (d) inadequate technical capacity to carry out maintenance and
manage contracts. Efforts to develop trunk road maintenance capacity under the
Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Credits 507-TA and 876-TA) failed to realize
any improvements in road conditions, and road rehabilitation under the on-going
Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1688-TA) has been extremely slow in starting,
mainly because of the institutional weakness of MCW and the protracted
procurement process caused by outdated government regulations.
1.13        The Government has recognized that a major restructuring of roads
administration is necessary if road networks are to be maintained in good
condition to serve their economic purposes.   The primary objective of the
Government in the subsector is to restore the country's essential roads and to
develop institutional capacity in MCW for their maintenance.  The institutional
objective will be to transform MCW from basicaLly a 'blue collar, construction
oriented ministry to a "white collar" administration/management oriented
ministry, with executive authority being delegated to MCW's 20 Regional
Engineer's Offices (REOs) for implementing road investments and maintenance.
Details of the roads sector are provided in Chapter II; the strategy for
stabilizing road network conditions is outlined in Chapter III; the proposed
Integrated Roads Project (IRP) to support the road stabilization program is
detailed in Chapter IV; and economic evaluation summarized in Chapter V.
1.14        Road Transport.    The trucking sector plays a major role in the
domestic transport industry, carrying nearly 702 of the estimated 2.5 billion
ton-km of freight movement within Tanzania. The existing fleet size is estimated
to be about 14,000 trucks (over three-ton capacity), of which 782 is owi.ed by
the private sector, 42 by the 12 Regional Transport Corporations (RETCOs) under
the National Transport Corporation (NTC), and 18Z by other public sector
organizations (marketing boards, cooperatives, etc.).  The main feature until
the mid-1980s was chronic shortage of replacement vehicles, spare parts, fuel
and tires.  Consequently, the vehicles were aged with very low availabiiity
rates.  Fleet replacement was only about 42 p.a., inadequate under Tanzanian
conditions, when over 152 would be optimal because of the poor road conditions.
Freight movement by road appears to have declined by at least 2t p.a. since the
mid-1970s but, as the overall level of economic activity had stagnated, this did
not result in persistent or widespread capacity shortage. Between 1985 and 1988,
the situation changed dramatically with the revitalization of economic activity
under the ERP. Since the introduction of the 'own-funds imports program" and
donor assistance for the import support program, the sector is in the process
of being revitalized to cater to the rapidly expanding demand. The economy,



however, continues to experience major problems in meeting the rapidly growing
agricultural production and the economic activities in the rural areas.  The
Government, realizing the distortional impact of tight administrative controls,
has eliminated essentially all barriers to market entry and administratively-
set tariffs. The trucking business is now on an upswing, but will continue to
require external assistance for procurement of spare parts and replacement
trucks. The magnitude of the annual foreign exchange requirement is estimated
to be in the order of US$80 million.
1.15        Passenger transport is served both Dy private and parastatal bus
companies; but due to the increased intercity mobility and high population growth
rate in Dar es Salaam, as well as excessive regulation of public transport, the
delivery of services has been adversely affected and seriously hinders mobility.
A Dar es Salaam Passenger Transport Study was recently commissioned by NTC which
is responsible for Shirika la Usafiri Dar es Salaam (UDA), the city bus company,
to investigate the existing regulatory and institutional framework for managing
passenger transport in the Dar es Salaam area with a view to improving delivery
of services and efficiency of operations. Results of the study will be reviewed
by IDA and presented to a transport donors meeting to agree on future actions
and assistance in the subsector.
1.16        Railways.  In the railways subsector, the Tanzania Zambia Railways
Authority (TAZARA) operates a service that is principally dedicated to Zambian
transit traffic, although it is increasingly catering to local traffic in the
southern part of Tanzania.   The performance of TAZARA, in terms of freight
transported, improved significantly in 1987 and 1988 in spite of serious
constraints on the availability of its locomotive fleet.  However, a serious
deterioration was noted in 1989 due to numerous accidents caused by relaxed
operational practices. Additionally, cost recovery is poor and TAZARA has been
unable to meet its debt-service obligations from its cash generation thereby
necessitating a recent restructuring of its capital structure.   TAZARA has
formulated a well-designed investment program to address the constraints on
efficient operations which has attracted considerable donor support.   The
effective haul capacity of the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) -- which
serves the central and northern parts of the country as well as transit traffic
from Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire and Uganda -- has declined progressively from about
1.0 million tonnes of freight in the first year of its establishment in 1978 to
0.9 million tonnes in 1989, despite considerable additions to its asset base in
the intervening years. This decline has proved particularly serious in the last
three years with the pronounced upsurge in domestic agricultural production and
increased diversion of transit traffic from other littoral countries to Tanzania.
The decline in traffic moved has reflected (a) the poor availability of TRC's
locomotive and wagon assets as a result of limited access to spare parts,
deficient maintenance systems ane skilled staff shortages; and (b) the poor
utilization of assets when made available caused largel- by ineffective
management of operatio..s and the unreliable condition of operational and
infrastructural assets. The chronic under-utilization of assets by TRC coupled
with regulatory restrictions on its ability to adjust its tariffs in line with
costs or to control the large labor component of its costs, has led to a
worsening financial performance and a massive erosion of its financial position.
As a commercial enterprise, TRC is currently a financially bankrnpt entity. An
Emergency Program (EP) for TRC was launched in 1987 with financing from IDA and
donors to stem & d reverse the deterioration in TRC's performance. The program,
which is being implemented, has so far succeeded in stabilizing TRC's



performance.    The Railways  Restructuring  Project  (FY91)  currently  under
preparation, will address the restructuring of TRC's organization and operating
practices and systems, the changes in the system of Government regulation of TRC
and the investment requirements that are necessary to enable it to cater fully
and profitably to the demand for freight transport by rail.
1.17        Ports.   The port of Dar es Salaam is a major regional port serving
the neighboring landlocked countries of Zambia, Malawi, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda,
and Zaire. The port throughput is the second largest on the eastern coast of
Africa after the port of Mombasa, and is the second largest eaLner of foreign
exchange in Tanzania after coffee. International traffic constitutes nearly 602
of the total traffic throughput, and the efficiency and cost effectiveness of
port operations is of paramount importance to its users. In order to modernize
the port of Dar es Salaam, a major program was started in 1984 under the Tanzania
Port Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1536-0-TA). The project aimed to (a) expand
the container handling capacity of the port to meet the rapidly increasing
containerized traffic; (b) rehabilitate the general cargo berths; (c) improve
equipment maintenance; and (d) improve the management and skills level of the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA). Since 1984, the traffic volume, which had
fallen continuously since the mid-1970s, began to recover at a rate of nearly
7% p.a. During the same period, THA's operating efficiency also showed gradual
improvements. However, it has become evident in the past two years that serious
bottlenecks were beginning to develop.   First, physically (and perhaps most
seriously), the capacity of the newly constructed container terminal is
inadequate, with the demand already exceeding technical storage capacity by over
40Z. The second phase of terminal expansion must be started immediately if a
major disruption in traffic movement is to be avoided. Second, institutionally,
inefficient customs procedures, inter alia, have contributed to the excessive
congestion in the container terminal thro-gh an unacceptably high dwell time of
containers in the port.   Third, managerially, a shortage of trained middle
management and skilled workers continues to make management and operation of the
port difficult.   Better use of technical assistance and a more systematized
management information system is required to improve management of operations.
Fourth, operationally, equipment maintenance continues to be a major problem,
especially with regard to the availability of dry cargo handling equipment.
Fifth, financial management could be further improved to expand the profitability
of port operations.   And finally, a better incentive scheme is required to
improve output. The Port Modernization Project II, approved in February 1990,
is designed to address these issues.
1.18        The project, with an estimated base cost of US$96 million, will: (a)
execute the second phase container terminal expansion to handle 2.4 million
tonnes annually (2002 expansion in container terminal capacity); (b) change the
financial management of THA in order to allow THA to (i) repay to the Government
all debts incurred in the past, including grants and (ii) introduce an
incentive/bonus scheme for workers funded from its own profits; (c) improve
equipment availability; and (d) improve customs processing through adoption of
simplified documentation and training for the customs officers.   Given the
structure of the project, if successfully implemented, THA would be in a position
to move expeditiously all cargo on demand, contribute between US$25 and US$50
million p.a. to the general revenues of the Government, continue to be one of
the largest earners of foreign exchange in the country (between US$30 and 40
million p.a.), and provide an incentive/bonus scheme of up to 100Z of existing
salaries to its workers which would improve morale and productivity.



-9-
1.19        Civil Aviation.    Given the substantial distance between major
population centers, aviation is an important means of transport in the country.
The available seat kilometers on Air Tanzania Corporation  (ATC),  the sole
provider of scheduled domestic services, has grown at an average of 142 p.a. from
about 83 million in 1977 to about 363 million in 1987. The demand for ATC's
services is high with average passenger load factor of 762 on all routes and 832
in the domestic market, often resulting in a high turnaway rate for customers.
Despite this favorable demand for its services, ATC's financial performance has
been characterized by growing deficits: in 1986 its operating deficit amounted
to TSh 583 million (about US$17.8 million equivalent).   ATC faces perennial
problems in acquiring minimum access to spare parts due to its inability to
generate sufficient foreign exchange to finance its own recurrent requirements;
it also has constraints on fleet utilization due to lack of proper facilities
(e.g. lack of night-landing facilities and poor maintenance of runways).
Furthermore, ATC is unable to train its staff properly due to lack of foreign
exchange for training abroad. Given these conditions, a systematic assessment
of ATC was carried out under a general civil aviation sector study funded by the
Irish Trust Fund, and an issues-oriented report "Air Tanzania Corporation -
Strategic Evaluation and Corporate Restructuring" carried out by the Bank (Report
No. 7618-TA - April 1989), set a suitable strategy for the sector both in terms
of improvements to the financial performance of ATC, improved cost recovery in
the civil aviation sector in general, and a least cost strategy to meet the
unsatisfied demand in air travel.
1.20        In  order  to  rectify  the  situation  and  to  implement  the
recommendations contained in the restructuring study, ATC has: (a) increased
fares by 100-1502; (b) streamlined its operations through reorganization and
staff reduction; and (c) stopped operations on several uneconomic routes.
Overall, with the actions being taken, ATC is expected to cover its operating
cost by 1991.  ATC has also submitted a capital restructuring program which,
inter alia, would make the airline self-financing by 1992. The proposal is being
considered by the cabinet.   In order to support the restructuring being
undertaken by ATC, the project will assist ATC with management assistance and
training, particularly in the areas of operational and financial management and
computing.
E. Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery in the Sector
1.21        As a follow-up to the Public Expenditure Review carried out in
November 1987, a Bank study on revenue collection and funding needs in the
transport sector was undertaken and presented to the Government in September
1988.   The objective of the study was to investigate (a) how the transport
sector, as a whole, including parastatals, was performing financially, and
(b) how the increased requirements for the roads sector could be financed. In
essence, to finance the massive rehabilitation program and the necessary increase
in the road maintenance budget, Tanzania needs to increase its budget allocation
for trunk and regional roads from the present 3-62 of total public expenditure
to about ki2 at a stabilized level.
1.22        The study concludes that the overall revenue collected by the
Government through road user charges and charges on civil aviation activities
was TSh 4.9 billion (US$72.1 million equivalent) in 1986/87, accounting for about
152 of the Government's total current revenue. On the other hand, the overall



- 10 -
expenditure for the road and civil aviation sector amounted to TSh 2.5 billion
(US$36.8 million equivalent), with a net contribution to general tax revenue of
TSh 2.4 billion (US$35.3 million equivalent). This contribution is roughly the
same as the total revenue raised from import duties in the same year and is
equivalent in size to about 26Z of the Government's current account deficit.
The net contribution made through the road user charges has, however, been
negated by the overall deficit of the public transport enterprises which amounted
to about TSh 2.8 billion (US$41.2 million equivalent). The existing financial
status of the transport sector, therefore, cannot accommodate the need to
increase the annual road maintenance requirements from the currernt level of US$5
million to about US$26 million (para 3.11), without adversely affecting resource
allocation to other sectors.
1.23        The study, however, also concludes that the financial control of
road user revenue collection and road expenditures is weak and the tax structure
is too complicated for it to be effectively administered. The study estimates
that due to administrative weaknesses, about 402 of the potential revenue is
either not collected or never reaches the Treasury. It recommends that financial
controls be strengthened, the structure of taxes be simplified and that the
present road toll tax rates be replaced by a tax on motor vehicle fuels which
would raise their prices by 1.6Z in real terms. Since fuel prices in Tanzania
are significantly lower than those in neighboring countries (particularly Kenya)
and thus encourages smuggling which leads to a drain on foreign -xchange, it is
also suggested that fuel prices be raised by 7.5Z p.a. in real terms for each
of the next four years. The aim of the tax would be to mobilize extra revenues
to support road maintenance and rehabilitation. Implementation of this program
would allow the increases in road expenditures to be met. Revenue would rise
under the proposed program to TSh 11.7 billion p.a. (US$96 million equivalent)
to enable the road sub-sector to continue making a substantial contribution to
the general Government revenue.
1.24        An overall strategy for improving financial performance will require:
(a) institutional arrangements which provide incentives 'or revenue mobilization
and controlling costs (roads and civil aviation); (b) financial controls which
foster a commercial outlook and facilitate timely decisions on important
financial matters (in relation to MCW's control of road expenditures and
management of public transport enterprises); (c) a framework of financial and
performance targets which promotes market discipline and encourages optimum use
of existing assets; (d) introduction of appropriate monitoring mechanisms to
ensure  that  sector  agencies  meet  established  performance  targets;  and
(e) selection of appropriate price and fiscal instruments which discoura-e
avoidance/evasion and minimize leakages. The Government is currently reviewing
the various options open to it to generate sufficient revenues to finance the
massive increase in public funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation. In
addition to the above-mentioned study, a specific study of petroleum pricing was
undertaken in connection with the preparation of the proposed Petroleum Sector
Rehabilitation Project. Based on the study, the Government increased the base
price and the tax element on petroleum products in February 1990 by 60-10OZ,
which would increase the tax revenues from these products by at least US$16
million per annum.
1.25         Apart from the resource mobilization program to be agreed with the
Government in terms of road user charges (para 3.11), specific action programs
are being prepared for each public transport enterprise: (a) a Bank study oi the



- 11 -
financial performance of the civil aviation sector and ATC has been completed
and some of its recommendations are already being implemented; (b) a Bank study
on financial performance of THA has been completed and will be implemented under
the Port Modernization Project II; and (c) a financial restructuring plan has
been formulated for TRC and will be implemented under the proposed Railways
Restructuring Project. If the respective programs are successfully implemented.
the overall effect would be: (a) ATC and TRC would begin to make modest operating
surpluses (i.e. elimination of US$10 million p.a. - combined loss suffered by
the two parastatals); and (b) THA would increase its profitability and contribute
between US$25 to 50 million p.a. to the general revenue of the Government. The
transport sector, therefore, would become a net contributor to the general
revenues of the Government (US$75 to 80 million p.a., combining the THA
coatribution and the net contribution from the road user charges).
F. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.26        The Bank Group has extended credits and loans to help finance six
highway projects, one trucking project, one railways project and three port
projects, totaling US$272.6 million since Tanzania became a Bank Group member
in 1964.  During the earlier years of lending, the projects concentrated on
financing  of  construction  and  equipment.    The  focus  later  shifted  to
strengthening of local institutions with provisions for technical assistance and
training, particularly for road maintenance and road transportation.   While
experience with the execution of physical components has ger.erally been
acceptable, the objective of technical assistance and training have been
difficult to achieve mainly because of: (a) delays in appointment of technical
assistance staff; (b) cultural and language adjustment problems of technical
assistance staff; (c) lack of effective administrative commitment by Government
agencies; (d) lack of suitable local counterparts; and (v) unrealistic targets.
A more detailed assessment of past Bank Group involvement in the transport sector
is given in Annex 1-1.
1.27        These lessons have been confirmed by the eight Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPAR)1, and have been highlighted in the comprehensive audit
carried out by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department on all Tanzania
projects from 1964 to 1988.   In the roads  sector,  the Trucking Industry
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (approved in October 1977) successfully
assisted the RETCOs to achieve satisfactory performance, considering the
constraints under which they operate, and the much poorer performance of other
parastatal transport operations.   However this performance was considered
sustainable only with a significant input of technical assistance. Five of the
six highway projects financed by the Bank Group (approved in 1964, 1969, 1971,
1974, 1979, and 1986) have been completed; the sixth is still ongoing. The first
three projects primarily supported road investments, which were eventually
satisfactorily completed; the fourth and fifth supported a two-phase effort to
establish a trunk road maintenance operation, which failed to meet its objectives
or to adequately train road personnel; and the sixth is primarily supporting
rehabilitation of trunk roads and road equipment, and continuing the training
1 PPAR Nos 791 of June 26, 1975; 4029 of June 30, 1982; 4030 and 4031 of
June 30, 1982; 4533 of June 3, 1983; 6483 of November 7, 1986; 6938 of September
15, 1987; and 7571 of December 30, 1988.



- 12 -
effort to provide sufficient number of qualified engineers and technicians for
MCW, as well as training for local contractors. This project was slow in getting
underway, due primarily to the institutional weakness of MCW and the protracted
procurement process caused by outdated and unfocussed government regulations.
Since mid-1989, the Government has approved various contracts which have been
pending and this is resulting in satisfactory progress.
1.28        In addition to IDA, some 15 donor agencies have been involved in
assisting the road sector  i-i Tanzania.  Many innovative approaches have been
developed, ranging from productivity-based incentive schemes to efforts to
involve women in road works.   Despite these efforts, donor assistance has
suffered from similar problems experienced ir. past IDA projects, namely: the lack
of sustainability due to shortage of Government budget, inefficient and weak
institutional structure, lack of coordination amongst the donor community to
focus available resources on the most critical areas; institutional and policy
aspects not integrated with the physical rehabilitation efforts; and lack of
comprehensiveness in the approaches. Since the initial meeting in December 1987,
a number of meetings between the Government and donors have taken place with
assistance from IDA. The joint effort has brought many of the issues to focus
and the proposed project incorporates the lessons learn by many of the donors
involved in the sector, particularly regarding the regional roads subsector where
IDA had, hitherto, not been involved.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.29        The rationale for IDA involvement is a logical extension of its role
in assisting the Government to carry out its macroeconomic reform. In the last
two years, IDA's role has been deepened to include reform of Rectoral
institutions and assi6.ance in removing sector-specific bottlenecks that have
emerged as obstacles to the sustainability of the recovery program.   The
comprehensive analysis of the road and transport sectors carried out by IDA in
August 1987 formed the basis of the December 1987 Transport Sector Donors'
Conference held in Arusha. Since then, IDA has taken the lead in working with
the Government to bring together a comprehensive rehabilitation and restructuring
program for the transport sector of Tanzania.  Nearly 20 donor agencies have
mobilized over US$1.2 billion in their resources to join Tanzania in implementing
the ambitious sector programs. Specifically, IDA contribution includes: (a) a
vision of how the transport sector can operate in the future if specific actions
are taken to adjust the institutional and policy framework under which the
transport sector is managed; (b) technical expertise w-hich has analyzed the
complex issues stifling the existing system and recommended options on how the
system can be changed to improve the effectiveness of the Government's effort;
and (c) supporting the changed attitude of Government officials towards
liberalization of transport operations, manifested in the following policy
actions: (i) decentralization of decision-making authority; (ii) expansion of
private sector involvement and encouragement of parastatals to operate strictly
on commercial merits; and (iii) less cumbersome procurement and administrative
practices.
.



- 13 -
II. THE ROADS SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01        The strategic importance of road infrastructure to the economy is a
function of the size of the country and the structure of production and
population distribution. Tanzania's land area (945,000 sq km - slightly smaller
than France and Spain combined) is one of the largest in Sub-Saharan Africa with
a widely dispersed population of about 24 million and a low density (25 persons
per sq km). About 422 of the total land area is devoted to agriculture. More
than 802 of the population lives in rural areas and is dependent directly or
indirertly on agriculture. The agricultural sector accounts for over 45Z of GDP,
902 of employment and roughly 852 of total foreign exchange earnings.  These
activities are widely dispersed around the country and most areas are accessible
only by road, Over 702 of the freight movement in the country is by road. Given
the dispersed nature of business and economic activities, a well maintained road
network is critical for internal distribution and marketing of food crops as well
as export of cash crops such as cotton, coffee, tea, sisal and sugar.
2.02        The total classified road network in Tanzania is about 55,500 km,
of which 10,200 km are designated trunk roads which function as the primary road
system (3,600 km paved), 13,000 km of regional roads basically linking the trunk
roads to regional and main district centers, and about 32,300 km of district
(including feeder) roads which provide the inter-village tertiary road network.
In addition, there are some 30,000 km of roads which come under agricultural
parastatals, the National Parks, or are unclassified roads managed by village
councils.   Average daily traffic (ADT) on the roads is relatively light.  On
the paved trunk roads ADT generally ranges from 200-500 vehicles per day (vpd),
except for the Himo Jct-Moshi-Arusha and Dar es Salaam (DSM)-Chalinze sections
which carry ADTs of about 1000-1500 and 1000 vpd, respectively. Traffic on the
unpaved trunk roads varies considerably, but seldom exceeds an ADT of 200 vpd.
ADT on regional roads is usually below 50 vpd, and on district, feeder and
unclassified roads is minimal. Annex 2-1 shows the established criteria for road
classification, and the target pavement design standards agreed at negotiations.
2.03        In comparison with its neighbors, Tanzania has the least developed
road network in terms of density per land area and one of the worst in terms of
road conditions.   Records of road conditions are either unreliable or non-
existent; but it is estimated that only 25Z of the paved trunk roads, 10t of
the unpaved trunk roads, and 82 of the regional roads are presently in good
condition.
Trunk Road Conditions: Cross Country Comparison (X)
Paved Roads       Unpaved Roads
Good Poor/Fair      Good Poor/Fair
TANZANIA    24      76           10     90
ZAMBIA       40     60           30     70
KENYA        32     68           66     34
MALAWI       50     50           30     70
ZIMBABWE     70     30           50     50



- 14 -
2.04        The  implication  of  the  production  and  population  density
characteristics of Tanzania, as well as the low density of the road network and
the poor conditions of the infrastructure is that: (a) the country's economy
incurs a high cost to conduct its economic activities due to poor road conditions
(para 1.07); (b) certain parts of the country are cut off from the overall
economic structure due to lack of adequate roads; and (c) the per capita
investment in road infrastructure would be much higher than for a country with
higher population density, hence requiring a higher proportion of public
expenditure to be devoted to developing and maintaining an adequate road system.
B. Issues
2.05        The problems faced by the road sector are numerous but can be
distilled as follows :
(a) road networks are deteriorating faster than the level of
investments to rehabilitate and maintain them;
(b) years of tight budgetary position of the Government have resulted
in consistently inadequate allocation for maint_4nance (only about
one-third of required level for most of the past 15 years);
(c) a weak revenue collection system has allowed about 40Z in leakages
(revenue from road users not collected or lost), equivalent to
about the funds required for full maintenance of the trunk and
regional road network (para 1.23);
(d) the institutional structure for roads administration which spreads
the responsibility among three ministries and about 100 executing
entities has not worked, and it would be impossible to make it
function under the skilled work force constraints of the country;
(e) the administrative system for the roads sector is highly
centralized and uncoordinated, and has proven to be incapable of
properly executing road and equipment maintenance, or managing
contracts;
(f) Government regulations for procurement of goods, works and services
and its management of supplies are obsolete, making it difficult
to increase force account productivity and to efficiently use local
contractors for works and equipment services; and
(g) the local construction industry is still in its infancy stage and
it will take several years before local contractors can carry out
a significant portion of road maintenance and rehabilitation works.



- 15 -
C. Diagnosis of the Problems
2.06          The factors which have led to the road sector problems facing
Tanzania are basically three: (a) insufficient funding for road rehabilitation
and maintenance; (b) inappropriate insticutional structures and inexperienced
personnel for road administration; and (c) obsolete procurement regulations and
supply management system. These are analyzed below.
Road Budget
2.07         In the years following independence and particularly during the
mid-1960s, expenditures for road infrastructure accounted for more than 10% of
total Government expenditures. This proportion decreased abruptly to 4% in the
early 1970s, and has since remained between 3 - 6% of public expenditures. This
is significantly lower than in the neighboring countries (Malawi, Zimbabwe and
Kenya) where the proportion to total Government expenditures ranges from 10% to
30%.
_entral Government Expenciture on Roads
Percentage of Total Expenditures
19
17-
16-
C    15-
14-
C    13
12
3  11
00
109
C
7          _
6
5
4
2                                                             W                
68/69  70/71  72/73  74/75  76/77  78/79  80/81  82/83  84/85  86/87,
0  Inc. Public Debt               +   Exc. Public Debt
2.08         As a result of the decline in public expenditures on roads,
construction and maintenance expenditure per km has declined to a very low level.
Once the roads have been restored to good condition, in order to prevent further
deterioration about US$1,700 per km of trunk road and US$1,250 per km of regional
road, in real terms, are needed for routine and periodic maintenance per annum
(p.a.) by mid-1996. As shown below, the budget allocation in 1988/89 was about
one-fourth of trunk road requirements for normal maintenance and less than one-
sixth of requirements for regional roads.   Such low allocation for road
maintenance over several years has resulted in severe deterioration of the road
network in Tanzania.



- 16 -
Road Maintenance Budget: FY1988/89
Maintenance    Total           Per
Types of Road        Expenditure    Kilometers      Kilometer
(US$ million)      (km)           (US$)
Trunk                    4.04          10,200          396
Regional                 2.52          13,000          194
District                 0.76          32,300           24
Total                7.32          55,500           132
2.09        In addition to the precipitous deterioration of the road condition,
the lack of funds for so many years has had other detrimental effects. Most
importantly, perhaps, is the decline in the morale of staff. The lack of funds
to carry out the planned works has made much of the staff idle, the low salary
levels have forced the staff to seek other means of income, and the few, h'.ghly
educated, professionals have lost the motivation to lead and provide a vision
of the future.   Furthermore, lack of budgetary resources have hampered the
development of sustainable training programs and limited the numbers of graduates
from engineering and technical colleges in Tanzania, thvs exacerbating the
chronic shortfall of skilled workers.
Institutional Structure and organiwzation
2.10        The structure of road administration has been subjected to frequent
and disruptive changes over the past two decades, as the political, economic and
social philosophy of Tanzania evolved through the 1970s and 1980s.   After
independence, most road construction and maintenance was conducted by the
Ministry of Works.  In 1972, road administration was decentralized with the 20
Regional Administrations taking over tne full responsibility of regional and
district roads and the maintenance of trunk roads. The Ministry was required
to second its professional s.aff to the regions, and this process effectively
diluted the scarce technical skills available in the country and handed over the
respont' _lity of road maintenance to institutions ill equipped to carry out such
a tas.^.   Consequently, the quality of work declined sharply.   In 1979, The
Ministry was once again made responsible for the maintenance of trunk roads; but
in 1984, the Ministries of Works and Transport were merged to form the Ministry
of Communicaticns and Works (MCW), and the District Councils, under the newly
cr4-ated Ministry of Local Government and Cooperatives (MLGC), were made
responsible for the development and maintenance of district roads. The Prime
Minister's Office (PMO), through the Regional Administrations, was given the
responsibility for re6ional roads.  The resu.t of all these changes has been
confusion, demoralization of staff, poorly organized planning and administration,
and ineffective long-term institutional and work force development.
2.11       MCW manages trunk road development and maintenance through its
Construction and Maintenance Department (DCM), which is also responsible for
government buildings and airports.  The Electrical and Mechanical Department
(DEM) manages and maintains the ministry's plant and equipment as well as the
Government's vehicle pool, and the Supplies Department undertakes procurement,
warehousing and distribution of all government supplies, including spare parts
for MCW's fleet. The Manpower Development and Administration Department (DMDA)



- 17 -
handles all personnel matters in the ministry, and has a training section (MPTS)
which manages internal and external training programs; its training center at
Morogoro (MCTI) runs courses primarily for technicians. The above departments,
together with separate divisions for Planning and Research (DPR), Contracts
Administration, Accounts, and Internal Audit, report directly to the Principal
Secretary who has the main legal power to authorize contracts.
2.12        All  trunk  road  contracts  and distribution  of  funds  for  road
maintenance are presently managed at DSM headquarters by DCM: road contracts
come under the Construction Division, although consultants are usually engaged
to carry out construction supervision; road maintenance under the Maintenance
Division (TRMD), which has a resident trunk roads engineer (TRE) in each of the
twenty regions for managing trunk road maintenance; and the Design Division is
responsible for project preparation and bidding documents (usually undertaken
by consultants). Thie linkages among the Design, Maintenance and Construction
Division of DCM and DPR have been slowly improving as DPR increases its
capability in defining overall priorities, preparing annual budgets, monitoring
expenditures, and approving budget releases. However, the administration process
in MCW is very slow because of: (a) unclear functions and diffusion of
responsibilities among the various divisions and departments; (b) shortages of
experienced managers, engineers, accountants and technicians - only about 502
of authorized positions are filled; (c) inefficient communications (primarily
carried out through written correspondence) between divisions and departments;
and (d) the overly centralized decision-making tradition within MCW. Delegating
execution of MCW's operations to the REOs will change the nature of business at
MCW headquarters (para 1.13). A task force in MCW has reviewed the functions
at headquarters and in the Regions in light of the decentralization, and also
the incorporation under MCW of the responsibility, through the new Rural Roads
Division (RRD), for development and maintenance of regional roads (para 2.la).
In Annex 2-2, Chart 1 shows MCW's present organizational structure, Chart 2 the
changes in the roads function within MCW, and Chart 3 the organization of model
REOs, and the linkages between headquarters and the regions (para 4.23).
2.13        The division of responsibilities for regional and district road
networks between PMO and MLGC, and their respective regional and district
administrations has not proved effective for development and maintenance of the
networks.   Besides the inadequate budgets for rural roads, which are often
diverted to other uses, none of the 20 Regions or 80 Districts in the mainland
has sufficient planning and technical expertise to undertake the difficult task
of maintaining widely distributed networks. MLGC is represented at the regional
level by a Regional Local Government Officer, and PMO coordinates development
planning of regional roads in the 20 Regions through a Regional Commissioner.
MCW has seconded Regional Engineers (REs) and District Engineers (DEs) to the
respective administrations.  Although data available is incomplete, only few
districts have a qualified engineer; also, there appear to be only about 180
technicians presently on RE and DE staffing lists.
2.14        The problems with the above institutional  structure have been
numerosr<. but can be distilled into three basic factors: (a) regional and
district administrations do not have the technical capability required to
administer the road network; (b) the structure requires a much higher number of
technical and skilled personnel than if the administration was concentrated in
one ministry; and (c) the structure causes duplication of facilities (e.g.
workshops, equipment) and requires higher numbers of technical and managerial



- 18 -
staff than would otherwise be the case. Given the scarcity of skilled staff and
limited budget, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to make this
arrangement function efficiently.
2.15        An  additional  draw-back  of  a  segmented  structure  for  roads
administration is the problem it poses for work force development: (a) a larger
number of engineers, technicians and managerial staff !J required; and (b) on-
the-job training provided by experienced senior staff, which is critical to
convert trained personnel into seasoned professionals, is rarely available since
many of the senior staff have been dispersed throughout the country. Under these
conditions, the external assistance provided to work force training and
institutional development over the past decade has not had the expecced impact,
and has not eased the extreme shortage of trained personnel.
Procurement Regulations and Supply Management
2.16        Experience from various projects in Tanzania indicates that the
elapsed time for clearance of procurement documentatinn ard contract awards
constitutes the most intractable constraint for timely project execution as well
as management of day-to-day Government operations.  The reasons for the long
clearance process are intricate. First, the procurement regulations are designed
for a past era of colonial government and have since been supplemented by various
Government circular on an ad hoc basis. The existing regulations do not allow
a ministry to clear its own procurement, even those of minuscule size; the
current authorized limit for a Principal Secretary is only about US$20,000
enuivalent.  The existing limits cause the bulk of contracts to be approved by
the Central Tender Board (CTB), and prior to signing, all contracts have to be
cleared by the Attorney General's Chambers (AGC) and the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), consequently placing excessive workload on these entities and causing
protracted delays in starting contracts.   Second, the inherent institutional
weaknesses demonstrated in the delays could be attributed to (a) lack of trained
personnel to prepare bid documents and properly evaluate them; (b) lack of
follow-up; and (c) lack of coordination between ministries, CTB and AGC. Third,
the ad hoc policy guidelines which were added to the original regulations tend
to be confusing and counterproductive. These include, inter alia: (i) demand
for "unlimited liability' in all consultant contracts; (ii) denial of local
contractors and consultants to receive foreign currency even when required for
carrying out works; and (iii) restrictions on contracts for piece (task) work,
and unattractively low regulated daily wages for workers. While it is impossible
to identify all policy guidelines which need to be addressed, the above are the
basic ones which adversely affect implementation of road sector programs.
D. Strategy for Change
2.17        By the mid-1980s, it became evident that the deteriorated condit.u
of the road infrastructure was becoming one of the most critical bottlenecks in
the Government's effort to revitalize the economy under the Economic Recovery
Program.   At the Transport Sector Donors' Conference in December 1987 (para
1.10), the government presented, inter alia, the outline of a five-year Core
Rural Roads Program (CRRP) which has the primary objective of assuring access
to key agricultural areas.    Subsequently a Rural Roads  Organization and
Management Study was undertaken. The principal recommendations of the study,



- 19 -
which were adopted by the Government in September 1989, and will be fully
implemented starting in FY 1990/91, are as follows:
(a)     MCW to take over the responsibility for managing road development
and maintenance on all regional and essential district roads; other
district roads to remain with the District Councils under the DEs;
(b)     MCW to decentralize the execution of its operations to the REOs,
with the RE reporting directly to the Principal Secretary of MCW;
(c)     A Rural Roads Engineer (RRE) position to be created in the REOs for
execution of regional road development and maintenance, and to advise
and train DEs on district road matters;
(d1     A Rural Roads Division (RRD) to be established at MCW headquarters
under DCM with the responsibility for regional roads, including
national planning, technical supervision of RREs, funds allocation,
monitoring, standards setting and training;
(e)     Planning and budgeting responsibilities for rural roads to remain
with Regional Administrations and District Councils, with technical
support from the REOs;
(f)     The RE to reinforce linkages with regional administrations through
regular consultations, and quarterly reports on the implementation
of budgeted road projects;
(g)     Reorganization of regional roads administration to commence with
eleven of the twenty regions under the five-year first phase of
CRRP, including unifying workshop management;
(h)     Trunk road and regional road maintenance systems to be separately
managed, but compatible to enable integration in the future;
(i)     Labor-based road rehabilitation and maintenance to be undertaken
systematically in selected regions, with intensive training and
management assistance;
(j)     Existing  regulations  impeding  local  procurement,  task  work
contracting and timely payments to be modified to permit efficient
road maintenance operations;
(k)     Because of r-esent shortages of engineers and technicians in MCW,
the vacant positions would be advertised and where necessary filled
by expatriates; and
(1)     The annual recurrent budget for maintenance of regional roads to be
increased about four-fold.
The basic strengths and weaknesses of MCW to takeover the responsibility for
maintaining trunk and regional road networks, and its capacity to implement a
large rehabilitation program are discussed below.



- 20 -
Institutional Capacity of MCI
2.18       MCW has the requisite organization to manage the increased network
(from 10.100 to about 30,000 km) comprising trunk roads, regional roads and
essential district roads.  Procedures for road and equipment maintenance are
well-established in HCW; however, MCW's past performance has been unsatisfactory,
partly because of the factors outlined in Section C above, but mainly because
of inadequate funding over a long period for road maintenance.    With the
delegation of greater authority to the REOs, increased contracting of maintenance
tasks, streamlined procurement procedures and adequate funding (Chapter III),
MCW should gradually be able to manage the entire network. The present shortfall
of engineers, quantity surveyors, techniciati, mechanics, supply officers and
accountants in MCW is being tackled through the ongoing concentrated effort to
increase the numbers through fellowships for graduate courses, upgrading skills
of MCW professionals through overseas courses, and increasing the output and
quality of technicians graduating from the Dar es Salaam and Arusha Technical
Colleges.  The shortfall of professionals should be eased considerably over the
next five years, provided that salaries and benefits for MCW staff are improved
to become more compatible with the private sector, which is expected to have an
increasing demand for skilled personnel as contracting of works and services
expands. In order to improve civil service salary scales a modest decompression
of salaries has already been undertaken, and the Third-Year Policy Framework
Paper addresses pay reform issues. However, the acute shortage of technicians
in Tanzania will continue to adversely affect performance over the next decade.
Paragraphs 2.22 - 2.24 outline the workforce development plan and training
requirements to overcome the critical human resource situation.
2.19        Road maintenance planning, execution and monitoring practices were
introduced in MCW under IDA's Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Cr. 507-TA and
876-TA), although performances fell far short of expectations (Annex 1-1). In
the past, some TREs have shown that, when given funds and functioning equipment,
they have the knowledge and capability to execute maintenance tasks. However,
these two key ingredients have been generally lacking and even the meager
budgeted funds, which are appropriated quarterly, are usually not received until
near the end of the quarter because of unwieldy bureaucratic procedures. Annual
maintenance programs have been prepared and costed by the TRE, reviewed and
adjusted by the TRMD in DSM and presented for budget allocations. However, with
severe budget shortfalls, these programs have not been revised to determine even
essential tasks, and road maintenance practices end up by being uncoordinated,
ad hoc, interventions that are usually wasted and poorly executed because
adequate equipment and transport to work sites are not available. Since the road
maintenance budget is meant to include funds for spare parts and equipment
repairs by DEM workshops, the TRE has usually been restricted to organizing
labor-intensive tasks which do little to maintain the road pavements. Central
computerized monitoring of road maintenance activities is being installed in TRMD
under the Sixth Highway Project (Cr. 1688-TA).  The delegation of executive
responsibility to the REOs, under the reorganized MCW, combined with increased
budgets and greater use of contractors are expected to eventually improve road
maintenance performance, although progress may be slow because of the time needed
to train managers and technical staff, and to inculcate productivity-oriented
attitudes.
2.20        Equipment Maintenance has been completely inadequate because of low
budgets, compounded by shortages of foreign exchange for spare parts, since the



- 21 -
completion of the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, and poor management.
Presently, only 15-20? of MCW's fleet is functioning; some 265 units mainly
purchased under the above two projects have been identified for repairs, and
about 70 units are to be rehabilitated under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project,
through seven zonal workshops and private garages. DEM, which is responsible
for equipment repairs and maintenance, has been severely hampered in its
activities through ineffective management and inadequate cash flow from the road
maintenance budget allocations.    Furthermore,  the centralized procurement
decision-making has not permitted DEM to procure spare parts, in a timely manner,
in order to repair equipment.
2.21        There are some 40-50 workshops under DEM and Regional Administra-
tions throughout the country, few of which have adequate tools or machinery.
Consolidation of workshops in the regions and concentration of equipment
overhauls in the seven zonal workshops will eventually improve the services.
However, contracting out of equipment repairs and maintenance needs to be
undertaken on a regular basis; few government agencies in developing countries
have proven capable of managing large fleets of heavy equipment (in industrial-
ized countries most road equipment is hired from the private sector). Conse-
quently, in an effort to raise the availability of equipment for road maintenance
activities, MCW has reviewed various options for managing road equipment along
commercial lines, and has decided that: (a) all road equipment presently
allocated to MCW will be managed by an autonomous MCW plant pool, which would
rent equipment to Government agencies and private contractors; and (b) most new
equipment and vehicles required for road maintenance will come from the private
plant pools.   A study for establishing the MCW and private plant pools is
expected to start shortly (para 4.18).   During negotiations,  agreement was
reached that MCW will prepare an action plan for establishment of private plant
pools, and ensure that these will be autonomous entities, and enable them to
charge commercial rates for equipment hire (Annex 2-3).
2.22       Workforce Development and Training. Since independence, the Tanzanian
workforce has been faced with serious shortages of competent and qualified
workers at all managerial and technical levels within the economy.   These
shortages have placed severe constraints upon general productivity and workforce
effectiveness in all sectors and continue to impact upon the management,
operation and maintenance of the road sector in particular. Despite extensive
efforts to improve this situation through technical assistance and a variety of
training modes supported by many foreign donors over the years, the road sector
still lacks a critical mass of managers, engineers, and technicians necessary
to carry out the Government's mandate to maintain the country's road infra-
structure. A wide range of studies, previous project appraisal reports, project
completion reports and PPAR's (Annex 1-1) have all pointed to the pervasive
weaknesses in managerial and technical capability among public sector employees
and the non-existence of a viable private sector work force capable of meeting
the needs of the road sector.   Beyond the more immediate aspects of worker
capability and qualifications, it is recognized that other factors in the
governance process (i.e. poor personnel management, lack of career planning,
improper utilization of employees, lack of incentives, lack of supervision and
discipline, and poor work place conditions) negatively impact upon the ability
of workers to be productive on the job.
2.23         Private sector participation in equipment services and road works
has been very limited because of the traditional reliance on force account



- 22 -
operations. International contractors, consultants and suppliers carry out
donor-funded projects, and some donors have teams of experts directly
rehabilitating and maintaining some roads, with participation of local
technicians.    Tanzania's  dire  shortage  of expertise  has  been  caused by
insufficient emphasis being placed by Government policy makers on technical
education in the pasts only 60 students annually enter the Civil Engineering
Faculty of the DSM University (UDSM) and 75 students in the civil stream of the
DSM Technical College (DSM Tech); a program to increase the DSM Tech output to
100 students is being supported by the Sixth Highway Project. In addition, a
crash program fund, i under the Fifth and continued under the Sixth Highway
Projects, provided fellowships for about 200 students to obtain engineering
degrees at three Indian universities, as well as short-term specialized courses
overseas. All graduates will have returned from India to MCW by mid-l990, but
present institutional and logistical constraints need to be overcome, and
systematic internal training established, before benefits can be fully realized.
2.24        The Rural Roads Organization and Management  Study  (para 2.17)
undertook a survey of existing road sector personnel ind training needs.
Subsequently, MCW has prepared a detailed workforce development plan covering
all grade levels from senior cadres to unskilled workers, in parallel with the
restructuring of roads administration, based on the strategy of transferring road
maintenance operations to the REOs, with increasing participation of the private
sector, and with MCW headquarters maintaining ar. administrative, planning and
coordinating role. It is estimated that approximately 10,700 skilled workers
will be required by the mid-1990s to meet road sector objectives. Recognizing
that existing numbers of qualified workers are insufficient to meet these needs,
end that present projections of properly trained entrants into the labor market
will also be insufficient, the workforce development plan has been designed to:
(a) strengthen and expand in-country training capability; (b) improve the quality
and scope of on-the-job training activities; (c) improve terms of reference and
monitoring of technical assistance with special emphasis on transfer of expertise
and nationalization of critical job positions; (d) enhance conditions of
recruitment and employment; (e) institute an incentive scheme based on
productivity against pre-established targets; and (f) improve conditions in the
work place through better personnel management, planning and the provision of
means to carry out job assignments. These activities are defined in detail in
a related Working Paper, and are supported by the proposed project (paras 4.09
and 4.10).
Government Procurement Regulations and Procedures
2.25        The Government  is aware that changes need to be made  in its
procurement regulations and procedures if the road condition problem is to be
resolved (para 2.16). For the implementation of the proposed project, a task
force has prepared proposals to streamline procurement procedures for
implementation by MCW, and to permit contract award decisions, at realistic
monetary levels, to be delegated to the Principal Secretary, the REs and
department directors of MCW.   Standard model contracts for works, goods and
services will be agreed with CTB, AGC and MOF for use of MCW, thus eliminating
the need for ex-ante approvals of individual contracts that comply with these
standards. Futthermore, the Government will undertake a complete revision of its
procurement regulations and supply management procedures, with the intention of
having the revised system functioning by end-1993 (para 4.13).



- 23 -
III. STRATEGY FOR STABILIZING ROAD NETWORK CONDITIONS
A. Obiectives
3.01        In the medium to long term, Tanzania's economic growth will continue
to rely essentially on agriculture.  The performance of agriculture and the
sustainability of the existing economic recovery program will greatly depend on
the condition of the road network to keep the basic economy in motion.
Improvement in the condition of road networks will be determined by:
(a) increased budgetary allocations and reorientation of public investment
priorities to road rehabilitation and maintenance; (b) improved management,
combined with restructuring of the institutional framework for planning, managing
and maintaining the road network; (c) increased revenues, partly through improve-
ment in revenue collection and partly through increaser. in fuel taxes; and
(d) improved execution capacity for maintainin'- the road network through basic
changes in the Government's procedures for contracting out road works and
equipment servicing.
3.02        To achieve these goals, the Government has formulated a comprehensive
Road Network Stabilization Program with the prime objective of bringing 702 of
the trunk road network and 50X of the regional road networks, including all
essential rural roads, to good condition by the year 2000. The first phase of
the program, up to 1996, will be supported by the proposed project. The strategy
to implement the program consists of an integrated package of investments and
major policy reforms whose main objectives are to:
(a) rehabilitate and improve priority trunk and rural roads which are
essential for evacuati3n of agricultural products;
Cb) strengthen the administration and management of trunk and regional
roads in order to maintain the networks in satisfactory condition;
(c) enhance the road maintenance capacity in the country through
promotion and use of local contractors;
(d) improve the availability of road maintenance equipment through the
establishment of commercially-operated plant pools;
(e) improve resource mobilization and allocation in order to provide
for adequate maintenance of the trunk and regional road networks;
and
(f) reorient the public expenditure to increase the overall size of the
road budget and allocate adequate funds for road maintenance and
rehabilitation.
3.03        The investments and policy reforms included in the proposed project
need to be carried out concurrently, since a partial implementation would fail
to yield the full extent of potential benefits. Rehabilitation investments and
provisions of funds for maintenance alone will not ensure sustained protection
of the  trunk  and  regional  road networks.    Without  investments  in  road
rehabilitation and maintenance, vehicle operating costs will remain high, and



- 24 -
evacuation of agricultural products will continue to suffer from inaccessibility
to transport, when needed, and high transportation costs. Organizational chauges
in administration of road networks are essential for the Government to prop*rly
execute road maintenance, and to ensure that funds are allocated to priority
activities and are spent according to annual programs. Without the foste:ing
of local contracting capacity to carry out maintenance and rehabilitation works,
the country will continue to face capacity constraints in executing road
programs. Without greater resource mobilization, the Government will continue
to have budgetary constraints to funding the required level of maintenance.
3.04        All the above factors are essential for the road network condition
to be stabilized to satisfactory levels, thus enabling the country's economy to
function and grow. Past assistance by various donors to strengthen the road
network has fallen short of their objectives, mainly because the institutional
and policy aspects were not integrated with the physical efforts to rehabilitate
the network and lacked comprehensiveness in their approach. The failure of past
Bank projects to attain appraisal targets attests to this point (Annex 1-1).
3.05        The proposed project is an ambitious one, particularly regarding
the amount of road and bridge rehabilitation required to tackle thoroughly the
road deterioration problem and to bring essential roads to maintainable
condition, as well as the comprehensiveness of the institutional and policy
changes to be implemented. But the pace of eccnomic recovery of the country and
the critical role which the road sector plays in the sustainability of thj
recovery makes the program for stabilizing road conditions essential, timely and
necessary.
3.06        The Road Network Stabilization Program entails extensive expenditures
and foreign exchange support in: (a) upgrading, rehabilitation, resealing and
regraveling trunk and regional roads; (b) road maintenance activities; (c)
technical assistance and training for MCW and its REOs to undertake the vastly
increased road management responsibilities; and (d) logistic support, including
renovation of dilapidated facilities, and upgrading office technology and
communications systems.   Donor meetings have been held regularly since the
December 1987 conference, and 15 of the 25 international and bilateral agencies
which participated in the initial conference have committed or pledged support
for the proposed project, which includes all internationally financed road
projects managed by MCW. Most importantly, the donor meetings have allowed all
agencies to be fully informed of, and comment on, the institutional and policy
changes being brought about under the project. The following paragraphs outline
the scope of the Road Network Stabilization Program and the related actions
required to be taken by the Government to implement it. Annex 3-1 shows the
annual physical targets for improving trunk and regional road conditions.
B. Rehabilitation of Trunk and Regional Road Networks
3.07        Through analyzing available studies and ongoing projects, a program
to improve the trunk and regional road networks has been defined and cost
estimates determined.   The objective of the trunk roads program under the
proposed project is to have 902 of the paved trunk road and 48? of the unpaved
trunk road networks in good condition by 1996. This will require rehabilitating
or improving about 4,600 km (or 40?) of the trunk road network. In addition,
about 50 bridges and over 300 culverts and structures need to be rehabilitated,



- 25 -
replaced or repaired. The objective of the Core Rural Roads Program (CRRP) under
the project is to rehabilitate about 3,000 km (or 21X) of roads in the regional
aetworks, with the objective to have in good condition by 1996 about 502 of these
networks in eleven of the most agriculturally productive regions (core regions).
CRRP vill concentrate on these regions over the first five years; during this
period, rural road rehabilitation programs will be developed for th0 remaining
nine regions. About 6000 km of
regional and district roads in eight                 *Ei3WATM AND UPO_ RADOF
regions have been identified as being  pm}
essential   for   access   to   key  80
agricultural areas.  Some 1300 km of          &rm"oMsZ.a COM     7    71
these roads have been selected for             a 17" -      
improvement, and contracts have been  _      ror t s
awarded for rehabilitating about half      eaL - n                : 1         1
of them.  A further 500 km are to be  wo   TOAL0 0  9                        S
selected by Regional Administrations   _                           \?    414 
in the core  regions  (para 4.15).  4W -  UTOre1A67 -     - V
Bilateral donor programs would finance                                    1so
rehabilitation of about 1200 km of  x\
rural roads in the core regions that  no
they  are  supporting  under  this       _                  d      \     _
project.                               lo0
0 009 0 0
1900/91  1991192  199293  1993/94  1994195  1995/96
3.08       The Sixth Highway Project
is covering part of the trunk road                  R      EGANIUTATNAD UPORADNS OF
rehabilitation  program,  and  IDA-   ,
financed feasibility studies have been                                                W 
undertaken to identify road sections       *
and bridges for the stabilization            Gr"fr r    0
program.   Several donors are also  ,,    rora* GR                                    l
funding  feasibility  studies  and           TOTAL                            n   e
detailed engineering for trunk and            armr*                        13
ElTOTAL *0 kmft
rural road rehabilitation.  MCW and               OS|
IDA   have   agreed   on   priority  4a I  TOTAL275        47s
investments  and  have  prepared  an
achievable implementation schedule,                    xI
based on public and private sector
capacity, realistic donor financing                            f   ,,3 176  K
and local budget levels, to reach the                          j M |
objectives  of  the  road  network                 '' 0 0     o 0  otoo o          0 | -
stabilization program (para 4.22).      0 g 0000    "2   19929   19904   19405   19S6



- 26 -
C. Road Maintenance Program
3.09       MCW. with IDA support, has           TnmkuftglkWRDonR-MM'U"SMS
prepared a systematic road maintenance  0    .
program based on the above rehabil-        ChPd0000
itation program. A detailed study has     N00ruPI0^
been carried out to set annual targets  7000
for maintenance requirements up to         r**
mid-1996.  The strategy is to: (a)  8000
clearly delineate annual maintenance  swo
needs;  (b)  estimate  the  physical  
requirements and agree on targets for ._
using local contractors and force  Om                      * ____
account brigades to carry out the  3X0 --,,-,,,,-,..,,,,,., 41, -----------
required maintenance works; (c) match
the funds required for maintenance  2
with the resource mobilization effort;  ,O-
and (d) agree with the Government's
Planning Commission and MOF on the    0e         191 19  1992193   1993    *M4
estimates  for  annual  maintenance
budgets  until  completion  of  the               Co"R"lRoKs- PkNicMalnanx
project.      During   negotiations  '-.o
agreement was reached on the road                                                   .,A
maintenance  strategy  and  annual
physical and budget targets, based on   B   . - *r.                               .
the expected financial support by IDA
and other donors. These targets will        _
be updated during the annual reviews  00
of the road network  stabilization   -
program  (para 3.13).   The agreed
annual road maintenance targets are   <              _
shown in the graphs.                   300.
200
00
oo
1990/91  1991/92  199293  1993194  19195    1999
Trunk Acaje P,,td   Metsow"
600 _ p^}
Nin.Cooe Rqolat ROadi Psl*o Maintenance
IG      -     --                            S W X
I                     ,            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooo   
300
00                                 -   -   -   -   - 00 _
noe     --_    -    
_00.-.                                    300 -__                                  --------
I0 0       * - -. . . . . . . .
o .-                       .200
1990191  1991192  19&5;"  19996  199/9  19
100
1990191  1991192  1992/93  1993194  1994195  1995/96



- 27- _
3.10        Sustained improvements in road conditions will not eventuate without
active participation of local contractors in road rehabilitation and maintenance
works. MCW, with the assistance of the National Construction Council (NCC), has
prepared a national strategy for developing the local construction industry,
containing declarations by the Government on its understanding, commitment and
specific steps to be taken to expand the capacity of contractors to undertake
building and civil works, and their maintenance. The delegation of contracting
authority to the REOs, together with increased availability of road equipment
for hire or leasing, and ready access to foreign exchange are essential for local
contractors to participate more effectively in the project (para 2.17).
Expansion of NCC's ongoing training activities will be supported by the project
(para  4.10).      The  National  Construction  Industry  Development  Strategy
underpinning this commitment was agreed at negotiations, and its adoption by the
Government will be a Condition of Effectiveness.
D. Resource Mobilization
3.11        The total resources required to finance the project (including the
Sixth Highway Project) is about US$980 million of which Government contribution
is expected to be US$66.7 million (from the development budget) plus about
US$92.9  million  for maintenance  costs  through  FY1995/96.    The  resource
mobilization objective under the project is to improve cost recovery from road
users in order to make the sector financially self-sufficient in terms of: (a)
covering the recurrent costs of road maintenance operations; and (b) making net
contributions to the Government's general tax revenues which would more than
cover budget requirements for road development and rehabilitation. The average
annual revenue which needs to be generated to meet the above requirements is
about US$62.0 million (US$26.6 million for road investments and US$35.4 million
for contribution to the general revenues). The estimated revenues generated in
1988/89 is about Tsh 6.5 billion or about US$54.2 million equivalent, with:
(i) motor vehicles licenses and road tolls generating about US$3.8 million (72
of total); (ii) gasoline tax of about US$20.6 million (38Z of total); and (iii)
import duties and sales tax of about US$29.8 million (55% of total). The addi-
tional revenues that need to be generated, therefore, is about US$8.0 million.
3.12        There are essentially four instruments to generate the additional
revenues necessary: (a) improve collection of motor vehicle license fees/road
tolls from the existing level of 60Z collected; (b) charge the same level of
taxes on diesel as gasoline; (c) simplify and reduce the charges on import duties
and sales tax to improve collection and compliance; and (d) increase the net con-
tribution of transport parastatals to the general revenues. The Government, in
late 1989, formed a Presidential Commission on Taxation and a Task Force on Road
User Charges to formulate an overall program to increase revenues.   During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government shall increase its revenue
collection, primarily through revenue intake from road users, with a view to
funding the increased costs of road maintenance, while maintaining the present
level in real terms of net contributions to the Government's general revenues.
Furthermore, agreement was reached on the Government's annual contribution to
funding road maintenance, through its recurrent budget, with the objective of
progressively increasing the budget allocations in order to fully cover road
maintenance requirements by FY1995/96. The estimated development and recurrent
budget requirements are shown below.



- 28 -
TOTAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET REQUIREMENTS FOR IRP 11
(US$ '000 - March 1990)
FY90191 FY91/92 FY92/9; FY98/94 FY94/9S FY96/96
TOTAL BUDGET REQUIREMENT:
DEVELOPMENT                         11,000  16,809  21,269  14,460  4,222     0
RECURRENT                          18.634  16,112  16.009  18.888  26.119  82.661
TOTAL                           29,064  81,921  87,268  82,688  29,841  32,661
RECURRENT BUDGET REQUIREMENT:
TOTAL RECURRENT REQUIREMENT         16,684  16,112  16,009  18,888  26,119  82,681
(M GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION)          (40)   (50)   (60)   (76)   (86   (100
TOTAL GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION           7,454   8,058   9,806 18.791  21,861  32,661
REQUIRED DONOR CONTRIBUTION:
RECURRENT                           11,180  8,056  6,404  4,597  8,768        0
TOTAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET:
DEVELOPMENT                         11,000  15,809  21,259  14,460  4,222     0
RECURRENT                           7.4S4  8.068  9.605  18.791  21.351  82,661
TOTAL                           18.464  2386  ao.864  28.241  25.578  82.661
1/ detoils in Annex 8-2
E. The Role of IDA in the Integrated Roads Project
3.13           The main focus of IDA missions in the preparation of the project
has been to tackle the institutional, procurement and local funding problems
which have adversely affected performance of donor-financed highway projects and,
if unresolved, will undermine the sustainability of the road network
stabilization program.   The proposed IDA project will support the program by
providing financial assistance for investments to be initiated between FY1990/91
and FY1994/95 and contracts for road maintenance activities up to mid-1995, and
will provide the main support for technical and training assistance to MCW and
its agencies. IDA participation will be closely coordinated with other donors'
funding of project components. Besides financial assistance for the project,
TDA's main role will be (a) coordinating the donor assistance to execute the
project, (b) supporting the institutional strengthening of MCW both at
headq6arters and in core regions, and (c) reviewing annual and multi-year
investment and maintenance programs in the road sector, in order to provide a
sustainable effort in achieving the objectives of the road network stabilization
program. Because of the size and complexity of the project, IDA has agreed to
the Government's request to station in Tanzania for about three years an
experienced highway engineer, partly funded by UNDP, to assist in the overall
coordination of the project.   During negotiations agreement was reached that
the Government will review vith IDA and participating donors, by March 31 of each
year: (i) the performance under the road network stabilization program; and
(ii) proposals for the next three fiscal years of road investment and maintenance
activities, including physical, financial and training aspects; and reach
agreement with IDA on the budget estimates for the following fiscal year for
rehabilitation and maintenance of the trunk road network, and regional road
networks in, at least, the core regions (para 4.33). Furthermore, it was agreed
that any proposed investment in the road sector, estimated to cost over US$3.0
million equivalent will have an estimated economic rate of return of at least
12S, taking into account socioeconomic criteria acceptable to IDA.



- 29 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Scone and Objectives
4.01         The strategy and scope of the Government's road network stabiliza-
tion program under the project are outlined in Chapter III and are based on the
transport sector recovery initiative presented at the Donors' Conference in
Arusha in December 1987 to sustain the momentum of Tanzania's economic recovery.
The proposed project will support the program by: (a) removing bottlenecks to
the expansion of exports, farm production and business mobility through better
road infrastructure and road transport services; (b) reducing roae transporta-
tion costs for both freight and passengers; (c) increasing involvement of the
private sector in road rehabilitation and maintenance tasks, and road equipment
management; (d) improving transport planning, budgeting and revenue collection
procedures; and (e) strengthening Government institutions and private enterprises
involved in the roads sector, by providing well-focused training, at all levels,
to operate, maintain and manage road infrastructure and transport services.
4.02         The project's components, which were prepared during 1988 and 1989
with financial assistance from several donors, cover requirements for
rehabilitating and maintaining the trunk and regional road networks, and for
improving the efficiency and safety of road transportation. The main objectives
of the project are to strengthen the capability of MCW to manage road maintenance
programs, and to execute, with financing from several donors, an integrated
package of road rehabilitation and upgrading investments to be initiated before
FY1993/94. The agreed target is to have about 90Z of paved trunk road and 48Z
of unpaved trunk road networks and 50Z of the regional road networks in the
eleven core regions, in good condition by mid-1996.
B. Project Description
4.03         To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the proposed project will
provide financial assistance for the following components:
(a) Institutional Support
(i)     strengthening MCW departments  and divisions  involved in
contract administration, road and equipment maintenance and
management, planning, budgeting and monitoring of trunk and
regional roads programs, as well as policy, feasibility and
engineering studies in the transport sector;
(ii)     instituting procedures in the REOs, in at least the eleven
core regions, for administration of trunk and regional road
rehabilitation and maintenance programs;
(iii)     renovation of facilities, provision of training equipment and
improvement of civil engineering courses at UDSM Engineering
Faculty, as well as an increase in the number of students;
(iv)     renovation of facilities, provision of training equipment and
improvement of highway technicians courses at Arusha Technical
College;



- 30 -
(v)     re-equipping MCW's Central Materials Laboratory (CML) and
provision of training and technical assistance to its testing
and research program, including soil testing assistance to
REOs;
(vi)     training  in highway management,  and  road and  equipment
maintenance, including ex.ansion of MCTI's facilities and
training programs;
(vii)     formulation and implementation of a road safety program.
including vehicle weight control, and traffic management;
(viii)    coordination of project implementation and establishment of
a management information system for the monitoring of
activities at headquarters and the REOs;
(ix)    renovation of MCW headquarters, CML and REOs, construction of
housing for REO staff, and upgrading office technology and
communications;
(x)     revising   the   Governmenrt's   procurement   regulations,
reorganizing materials supply management, and training in
procurement for staff of MCW, Attorney General's Chambers and
Tender Boards;
(xi)    continuation  of  assistance  to  domestic  contractors  to
undertake an increasing share of road rehabilitation and
maintenance works, including development of labor-based
technology; and
(xii)    conversion of NIT's vocational training programs into more
practical and shorter courses to satisfy the demand of the
transportation industry.
(b)  Rehabilitation Program
(i)     rehabilitation of about 1,080 km and overlay or resealing of
about 620 km of paved trunk roads; rehabilitation or improving
of about 2,550 km of unpaved trunk roads, and upgrading to
paved road standards of about 340 km with bridges and
structures;
(ii)     rehabilitation or replacement of about 30 other bridges, and
repair of minor structures along trunk roads;
(iii)     improvements to about 10 vehicular ferry crossings; and
(iv)     rehabilitation  of  about  3,000  km  of  regional  roads,
principally in the core regions.



- 31 -
(c) Maintenance Program
(i)     acquisition of equipment, vehicles, initial stock of spare
parts, and workshop items for privately operated plant pools;
(ii)     acquisition of equipment, vehicles, initial stock of spare
parts, and workshop items for the MCW plant pool;
(iii)    acquisition  of  spare  parts  and  materials  for,  and
rehabilitation of, road maintenance equipment;
(iv)    equipment hire for road maintenance undertaken by the
REOs; and
(v)    contracted road maintenance and emergency works.
(d) Freight, Passenger and Air Transportation
(i)     strengthening ATC's management capability; and
(ii)     strengthening  the management  capability  of NTC  and  its
affiliates - RETCOs and UDA.
C. Institutional Support
4.04         Because of the vast increase in MCW's activities under the project,
combined with the general lack of experience of the Ministry's engineers and
technicians in effectively managing road networks, support to MCW headquarters
will be concentrated over the first three years of the project period in order
to assist in execution of: (a) procurement management; (b) road maintenance
programming, cost accounting and guidance of REOs; and (c) planning, budgeting
and monitoring of trunk and regional road programs. During the project period,
MCW will be administering: (d) about 35 major civil works contracts as well as
an increasing number of small contracts managed by REOs for road, bridge and
culvert works and maintenance; (e) equipment repair contracts, and spare parts
and other purchases through a procurement agent; (f) consultant contracts for
technical assistance, transport studies, road engineering and works supervision;
(g) IDA and donor-supported assistance to core REOs; and (h) workforce
development and training programs. In order to coordinate the above activities,
MCW has expanded the scope of the Sixth Highway Project Coordination Unit to
cover  implementation  of the proposed project.    The  renamed unit,  CODAP
(Coordination Office for Donor Assisted Projects), which presently consists of
three full-time staff under thie unit's coordinator, will be assisted by a
highway engineer and an accountant (80 m-m).  In addition, about 60 m-m of
consultant assistance would be provided to support MCW's senior management in:
(i) facilitating administrative (registry) and management procedures and
practices; (ii) monitoring the effectiveness of technical assistance and the
workforce development and training program; and (iii) setting up and monitoring
a management information system for activities at headquarters and the REOs.
The Planning and Research Department (DPR) in MCW will also receive about 80 m-
m of assistance comprising an economist, engineer, analyst and short-term
specialists.  MCW headquarters and REOs will be renovated, office technology
upgraded, housing constructed for REO staff, and communications systems improved



- 32 -
to enable more effective interchange of information between headquarters and
regional units.
4.05         Under the project a strong emphasis will be given to active
participation of the technical assistance in MCW and REO functions during the
initial period, including formal and on-the-job training of the Ministry's
personnel, which will be coordinated with MPTS.   Terms of Reference for the
technical  assistance  to MCW  and  its  REOs,  and  associated  MCW  staffing
requirements, were agreed at negotiations.   It was also agreed that key MCW
staff associated with the project will not be reassigned in such a manner as to
be detrimental to project implementation.  The summary of technical assistance
and associated staff under the project is provided in Annex 4-1.
4.06         The  proposed  project  will  also  support  MCW's  efforts  in
establishing management and operational systems in the REOs.  In particular,
technical assistance will be provided directly to REOs in preparing, budgeting,
executing and monitoring trunk and regional road development, rehabilitation and
maintenance programs under their responsibility. Six bilateral donors (FINNIDA,
GTZ-FRG, Ireland, NORAD, ODA-UK, Switzerland), UNDP and IDA have agreed to
support the eleven core regions by providing the necessary technical assistance,
as well as renovation of facilities, staff housing, and logistic support. IDA
will support two adjacent REOs - at Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions - by providing
about 220 m-m of technical assistance.  In each region there will be a highway
engineer primarily to assist the Regional Engineer and a road maintenance
technician to assist the TRE and the RRE and, between the two regions, a
procurement specialist and an accountant. UNDP is expected to finance technical
assistance to the Kagera REO.  Full-time assistance will generally cover the
first two to three years, after which short-term visits, until end-1996, will
assist the REOs in preparing programs and budgets, and in monitoring
performance.   One of the first tasks in each region will be to carry out a
physical and condition inventory of the trunk, regional, district and feeder
road networks.
4.07          Under the project, procurement, management and operational systems
to be used by the REOs will be established by MCW Headquarters.  About 40 m-m
will be provided for establishing road maintenance standards and reporting, and
about 70 m-m of technical assistance is expected to be funded by the AfDB for
setting up and monitoring procurement procedures. Ongoing USAID assistance to
RRD in contract management of rural road works will be complemented by
assistance for establishing labor-based methods (about 36 m-m to be provided by
both NORAD and USAID), in conjunction with the REOs and Regional Administra-
tions.  Also, about 50 m-m of technical assistance will be provided to MCW
headquarters for undertaking periodic supervision of the REOs, and in assisting
those REOs that are not receiving donor support. The technical teams in the
core REOs will not only assist in the implementation of the new systems but,
through regular meetings, will provide feedback and suggest modifications to
improve them. In particular, annual workshops will be held among REO and MCW
headquarters staff and participating consultants to review and recommend
modifications to management and technical practices (para 4.25).
4.08         MCW's Central Materials Laboratory  (CML) will be equipped to
provide soils testing assistance to MCW field units, engineering staff and REOs
as well as to private contractors and consultants, who pay for such services.
CML will also be supported (about 36 m-m expected from ODA-UK) to undertake: (a)
i



- 33 -
an inventory of, and essential research on, naturally occurring road materials
in Tanzania; and (b) pavement performance monitoring and condition surveys. A
study will also be undertaken for CML to provide better services to the private
sector and to eventually evolve into a financially autonomous unit.
4.09         The workforce development and training program will be managed by
MPTS, and will expand on activities initiated under previous projects with the
objectives of: (a) providing well-focused internal and external training for MCW
employees to better carry out their functions and for career development;
(b) improving personnel administration in MCW by enhancing career planning,
office technology and discipline in order to create a better working
environment, staff morale and productivity; (c) providing a greater number and
better prepared graduates from professional and technical colleges and
institutes who would be available to fill vacancies at MCW headquarters and REOs
(and also at District Engineer's Offices); and (d) increasing the number and
capacity of domestic contractors to undertake road works and maintenance.
4.10         In order to fulfill the above objectives, the project will support:
(a) MPTS in managing the work force development and training program, including
about 24 m-m of technical assistance; (b) MCTI to expand its facilities and
training programs, including about 24 m-m of instructors over short assignments,
for MCW staff and, increasingly, for technicians from the private sector; (c)
UDSM Engineering  Faculty  (GTZ-FRG),  including about 51 m-m of  technical
assistance, to increase the intake of civil engineering students from 60 to 80,
and to upgrade highway engineering and planning courses; (d) NIT to convert its
vocational courses into more practical oriented and shorter courses to better
satisfy the demand of the transportation industry (by establishing a twinning
arrangement with a similar institute - 12 m-m); (e) Arusha Technical College
(GTZ-FRG), including about 36 m-m of technical assistance to establish a highway
technicians course for 25 graduates per year; and (f) NCC for training (90 m-m
of technical assistance) of about 15 domestic contractors in undertaking road
works; in addition about 6 small firms will receive training in labor-based
techniques (about 80 m-m of UNDP-funded/ILO executed assistance), as well as
about 36 m-m of a specialist to assist NCC's Research Unit.  Furthermore, the
project will support seminars and workshops (some to be managed by ESAMI, the
Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute, at Arusha) and selected
overseas  fellowships  to upgrade professional expertise.   MPTS will  also
coordinate assistance to the Tanzanian Institute of Engineers and the Engineers
Registration Board, in order to enhance professional status and exchange of
experience between engineers in the private and public sectors. Details of the
workforce development and training programs are provided in the project file and
are summarized in Annex 4-2.
D. Vehicle Weight Control and Road Safety
4.11         Regulations covering maximum weight of vehicles under the Road
Traffic Act (1973) were amended in 1987 to relate better to existing road
transport conditions and to update fines for overloading. There are eight fixed
weighbridges in the country which are manned by the road traffic police, and
assisted by MCW personnel Wio operate the scales. MCW has prepared a program
to install six more weighbridges, mainly at border crossings, and to upgrade
existing scales, as well as to purchase two weigh-in-motion units for traffic



- 34 -
monitoring by MCW, and portable scales, communications, and speed measuring
system equipment for the road traffic police.
4.12         Road safety campaigns have been poorly coordinated and implemented
in the past because of lack of leadership.  The National Road Safety Council
(NRSC), comprising twelve members appointed by the Prime Minister from the
public and private sectors, provides mainly an advisory role, but has a special
responsibility for education and training; in practice this has been limited to
arranging an annual Road Safety Week.   The secretariat to the Council is
provided by the Commander of the road traffic police who is also responsible for
implementing the Council's decisions and programs. Under the proposed project,
MCW has prepared a three-phase road safety program covering road accident
recording, analysis and research, information and education, driver training ard
licensing, traffic law enforcement, vehicle testing and control, and road
infrastructure and environment.  NORAD is expected to provide about 36 m-m of
technical assistance for this component. Because of the need to clearly define
institutional responsibilities, it was agreed at negotiations that the vehicle
weight control and road safety programs will be formulated by July 1, 1991,
including a definition of responsibilities for implementation, and promptly
thereafter to commence the implementation of the programs. Consequently, road
traffic and safety specialists will be engaged initially to prepare details of
the programs and draft necessary Government directives for their implementation.
E. Revision of Procurement Regulations and Procedures
4.13         Besides the need to obtain agreement for changes in procurement
practices and procedures for the implementation of the proposed project (para
2.25), a team of experts will be engaged under the project (about 190 m-m) to
review the procurement regulations of the Government with a view to:
(a) executing an overall revision of existing regulations and procedures
appropriate to the changing needs and economic environment; and (b) assisting
to implement the revised regulations and procedures, as well as improvements to
the Government's supply management system until the process is well established.
In March 1990 the Government approved the interim procurement regulations and
contracting thresholds for delegated decision-making authority in MCW, to be
used for implementing the proposed project, until the new procurement
regulations are effective.   During negotiations,  agreement was reached on
details of the interim procurement regulations and draft standard procurement
documents.   Also, agreement was reached on terms of reference for engaging                 U
consultants to undertake a general revision of Tanzania's procurement
regulations, including assistance in implementing new supply management
procedures, and that the new system will be functioning by December 31, 1993.
Finalization of procedures and documentation for the interim procurement
regulations, and selection of consultants for undertaking the Procurement
Regulations and Supply Management Study, will be Conditions of Effectiveness.
Annex 4-3 provides key features of the interim procurement regulations.
F. Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Program
4.14         The trunk road rehabilitation program will build on the start made
under the Sixth Highway Project and ongoing donor-financed projects which are
rehabilitating or upgrading some 800 km. Under the proposed project, about 1080



- 35 -
km of paved roads will be rehabilitated and 620 km overlayed or resealed, 340
km upgraded to paved road standard, 2090 km of gravel roads rehabilitated, and
sections improved along a further 460 km.  The project also includes repair,
reconstruction or replacement of about 30 bridges, and minor structures along
trunk roads, and improvements to vehicular ferry crossings including ferry
repairs or replacement.   Wherever possible bridges and structures will be
included in road rehabilitation contracts. The above works will be contracted
out; some donors intend using management contracts, incorporating MCW staff and
private individuals or firms  in the operations.   For IDA-financed works,
detailed engineering for contracts scheduled to begin during the first two years
of the project has been completed under the Sixth Highway Project; other design
work and all supervision of construction will be financed under the proposed
project.    Consultants  undertaking  the  detailed  engineering will  also  be
responsible for works supervision.
4.15         About 3,000 km of rural roads are expected to be upgraded or
rehabilitated under the proposed project. Feasibility studies were completed
in 1987 for rehabilitating 1300 km of Phase I rural roads in seven of the core
regions, and detailed engineering for 620 km have been completed with DANIDA
funds. Short-listed local consultants have been invited to prepare detailed
engineering for the remaining 680 km. Four lots totaling about 300 km under the
Phase I are being contracted out to local firms participating in the NCM
training program.   About 120 km of rural roads, mainly in the Kilimanjaro
Region, will be rehabilitated by labor-based methods, under NCC's training
program with ILO (para 4.10).  Contracts for detailed engineering and works
(including supervision) will be funded by the Government from TSh generated
through the USAID Commodity Support Program, which are earmarked for rural road
rehabilitation; over 50? must be undertaken by domestic private contractors.
IDA will support the rural roads rehabilitation program through provision of
equipment and spare parts for domestic contractors through NCC.   Detailed
engineering for a further 500 km in core regions, will be constructed by RRD for
roads selected by Regional Administrations with assistance of REOs and DPR,
through screening and evaluation procedures prepared by consultants and adopted
by MCW.   During the project period, a further 1,200 km of rural roads are
expected to be rehabilitated in core regions receiving direct support from
bilateLal donors. During negotiations agreement was reached that rural roads to
be improved under the project will be selected by applying evaluation criteria
satisfactory to IDA (Annex 4-4). Details of road, bridge and ferry works under
the project, as well as works to be included in the second phase of IRP, are
provided in Annex 4-5.
G. Road Maintenance Program
4.16         Road maintenance  activities will gradually  increase over the
project period as REO staff and local contractors gain in competence, equipment
becomes available, and budget levels increase.   MCW staff involved in past
highway projects have generally adequate experience in road maintenance
management, but most REQ staff have little practical experience in managing road
networks. Because of the considerable length of trunk road network that will
be rehabilitated under the proposed project by contractors (between 30 and 50Z
of the network will be annually under contract from FY90/91 through FY94/95),
the direct maintenance obligations of MCW and its REOs for these roads will be
relatively  light until  1996.   Furthermore,  it has  been agreed with  the
Government and donors that, where practical, road rehabilitation contracts will



- 36 -
include a three-year maintenance period. Consequently the main focus of the
REOs will be on managing maintenance of the regional road networks, with
particular emphasis on the eleven core regions. Considerable assistance from
MCW and REO consultants will be needed in setting up road maintenance standards
and procedures as well as training of head office and regional staff. Priority
will be given to maintenance of roads already in good and fair condition, and
to rehabilitated roads. The pace of implementation of road maintenance will
depend to a great extent on the ability of local contractors and communities to
undertake labor-based maintenance tasks. In order to facilitate execution of
road maintenance programs and to ease the budgetary burden, IDA will partly
finance contracts for maintenance works and equipment hire (para 4.31).
Furthermore, because only seven local contractors have reasonably adequate
equipment for undertaking road maintenance works, IDA will finance basic
equipment and vehicles for the eight contractors undergoing training at NCC and
the six contractors to be trained by ILO in labor-based road works.   The
equipment will be purchased by MCW and transferred to the contractors through
hire-purchase  agreements.    A  tentative  list  of equipment  for the  eight
contractors is provided in Annex 4-6).
4.17         Because of the present poor condition of many roads in Tanzania,
and the lengthy period needed to rehabilitate roads and bridges, IDA will
finance contracted emergency works along short road sections that have failed
and are causing severe traffic bottlenecks, and which cannot be adequately
repaired by road maintenance brigades. Priority will be given to road failures
affecting movement of agricultural supplies and produce.
4.18         The program for rehabilitating road maintenance equipment, which
was started under the Sixth Highwfay Project, will cover about 260 additional
units with about 260 m-m of assistance from master mechanics who will also
continue training of MCW mechanics in the seven zonal workshops in preventive
and corrective maintenance. About 350 units will be scrapped or auctioned. The
reconditioned units will be consigned to MCW's plant pool for hire by
contractors and the REOs.  MCW will engage plant specialists (about 40 m-m) to
set up its plant pool over the first year of operation.   IDA will finance
support equipment for MCW's plant pool and acquisition of equipment, vehicles
and workshop items for competitively selected private plant pools that will be
required to provide guaranteed services to MCW during the project implementation
period. The study (para 2.21) to determine the details of the MCW and private
plant pools, will include preparation of bidding documents and draft contract
for procuring and hiring equipment, as well as a questionnaire for prequalifying
private companies.   The objectives and scope of the equipment repair and
scrapping program, and tentative equipment requirements for the plant pools
(Annex 4-7) were agreed at negotiations.   Preparation of regulations for
establishing MCW's plant pool, and bidding documents and the list of
prequalified companies for private plant pools, all to the satisfaction of IDA,
will be a Condition of Effectiveness.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 37 -
H. Freight. Passenger and Air Transportation
4.19         NTC and RETCOs will receive technical assistance up to 1993 (about
500 m-m), as a continuation of the successful component for freight transport
under the Sixth Highway Project (para 1.27), and UDA about 50 m-m for management
of passenger transport in Dar es Salaam; details will be determined by the
ongoing Dar es Salaam Passenger Transport Study. It was agreed at negotiations
that a plan of action to improve the delivery of urban passenger transport
services, including institutional reorganization and pricing policy, will be
furnished for IDA review by December 31, 1990.  This will be presented to a
donors meeting to agree on the follow-up action plan.
4.20         ATC, with assistance of MCW, has prepared a restructuring plan,
which is being implemented. Furthermore, Government approval is expected to be
obtained for ATC to operate with adequate business freedom for the airline to
become financially self-sufficient; these freedoms include the ability to invite
external equity participation in the airline.  Management assistance to ATC
amounting to about 150 m-m over two to three years will be provided under the
project in the fields of cost accounting and pricing, marketing, computing and
human resource management. Annex 4-8 provides details.
I. Proiect Cost Estimates and Financing
4.21         The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies,
is US$871.1 million equivalent.  Duties and taxes are expected to amount to
about US$20 million or about 2.3Z of the total cost.  Base costs have been
estimated at March 31, 1990, prices. Physical contingencies average about 112
of base cost: 10 - 152 for road and bridge rehabilitation and emergency works,
depending on the stage of preparation; and 52 for equipment and spare parts,
building  renovation,  consulting  services,  and  training.    No  physical
contingencies have been provided for road maintenance contracts and equipment
hire because the estimates are based on agreed annual budget allocations for
trunk and regional road maintenance. Price contingencies averaging about 122
have been applied to the base costs plus physical contingencies, and are based
on estimated foreign inflation of 4.92 p.a. through 1994, and 3.72 thereafter.
This assumes that the exchange rate (taken as US$1.0 = TSh 200 at March 31,
1990, - for base cost estimates) will be adjusted for divergences between
foreign and local rates of inflation.   Overall, about 254 person-years of
management, technical and training assistance will be provided under the
project. Consultants will also prepare detailed engineering and supervise civil
works contracts, averaging about 52 of construction costs, and will carry out
procurement regulations and transport sector-related studies.
4.22         The project is expected to be externally financed by: IDA (US$180.4
million equivalent); DANIDA (US$57.0 million equivalent); FRG (US$32.0 million
equivalent); Italy (US$91.7 million equivalent); FINNIDA (US$48.4 million
equivalent); ODA-UK (US$13.6 million equivalent); NORAD (US$36.5 million
equivalent); EEC (US$171.0 million equivalent); USAID (US$32.7 million in TSh
generated from its Import Support Program); The Netherlands (US$18.0 million
equivalent); Switzerland (US$10.8 million equivalent); Ireland (US$4.8 million
equivalent); AfDF (US$45.2 million equivalent); UNDP (US$2.9 million
equivalent); and Saudi Fund (US$11.8 million equivalent) amounting to US$756.8
million equivalent.  There is a financing gap of US$33.8 million (42 of the



- 38 -
total project cost), specifically for part of the Kibiti-Somonga road
rehabilitation scheduled for the Second Year Program (FYl990/91), and for TANZAM
Highway Section VI Rehabilitation and TANZAM Reseal, both in the Fourth Year
Rehabilitation Program (FY1992/93). It is expected that this gap will be filled
through future donor coordination meetings. The Government will provide US$80.5
million equivalent through budget appropriations, as well as the annual budget
allocations for road maintenance (para 3.12). External financing is expected
to cover 912 of total project cost.   Details of project cost estimates and
financing plan are shown in Annex 4-9. A susmary of the project costs is shown
below.
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
TOTAL
COMPONENT                   LOCAL    FOREICN      TOTAL
(US '6O6)
A.  Institutional Support
(1) MCW Management A Tech. Development  4,7608. 21,196.2   25,96.60
(ii) Transport Studies and Assistane    2,0n).S  8,060.0    5,660.0
lii) DSM Engineering Faculty                 .   1,246.       1,6960.
(lv) MCTI Training Program                 21.4  1,566.6    1,078.0
(v) MCW Manpower Planning and Training   453.6  1,654.4    2,488.0
(vi) Renovation Of MCI and REO Facility   ,000.0  1,660.0    2,660.6
(vil) National Construction Council        266.0  1,624.0    1,286.0
(vill) Labor-8 ssd Works Training           189.6  1,421.0    1,616.0
(ix) Notional Institute of Transport      196.0  1,316.0    1,566.6
(x) Procurwoent Regulations Study        456.6  1,324.0    2,286.0
(xi) Arusha T ehnieal College             246.0    96.60    1,195.6
(xii) Communications A Office Technology     6.6  1,206.0    1,26.6
Subtotal Part A                    10,641.8 87,796.2   48,487.0
B.  Rehabilitation Program
(i) Paved Trunk Roads                 75,496.8 848,067.6  418,564.8
(ii) Unpaved Roads                     86,460.7 71,070.8  101,520.9
(lil) Trunk Road Bridges                 1,5600.   4,5600.0    6,6.6
(iv) Regional Roads                    84,26060  16,600.6   60,666.0
(v) Ferry Crossings                      126.0  1,87.60    2,600.0
Subtotal Port B                   141,786.4 486,812.8  678,69986
C.  Maintenance Progr&A
(i) Road Msintenance Equipment             6.6  16606.6   16,66.6
(ti) Equipment Rehabilitation            80W.6  8,2006.      4,606.6
(ill) Equipment Hire to mid-1996        18,666.6  7,0006.    20,6006.
(Iv) Contract Maintanane to mid-1995    6,666.6  14,600.0   20,000.6
(v) Emergency Works                    8,666.0  7,600.6   16,6e6.6
Subtotal Part C                    22,806.0  40,206.0   69,666.6
D.  Freight, Passenger and Air Transportation
(I) Managemnt Assistane to ATC           460.0  1,800.0    2,256.6
(ii) Assistance to NTC, RETCO's           460.0  1,840.0    2,860.6
(il) Assistance for DSM Passenger Trans    126.0    480.6      6e6.6
Subtotal Part D                     1,686.0  4,120.0    5,156.0
TOTAL BASE COST                         176,252.2 624,428.0  766,686.2
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES             19,486.2 69,660.9   79,649.1
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                28,266.4 68,188.4   91,468.8
TOTAL COST                              219,665.8 652,127.8  671,138.1
s _          _           =



- 39 -
J. Implementation and Present Status of the Project
4.23         Project preparation is well advanced for IDA-financed components
beginning in the first two years of the project period.  Detailed engineering
for rehabilitating about 760 km of trunk gravel roads, which were transferred
from the Sixth Highway Project, have been completed and bids were invited in
May 1990. Detailed engineering for rehabilitating a further 460 km of gravel
roads is underway. A contract for a comprehensive pavement management study of
the 990 km TANZAM highway has been awarded; the study will include detailed
engineering for about 70 km of paved road rehabilitation, and identify stretches
requiring asphalt overlays or resealing.  Feasibility studies for trunk road
bridges and ferry crossings have been completed, and proposals for detailed
engineering and constructiorn supervision were invited in May 1990.  The four-
month plant pool study started in April 1990. The training program has been
substantially prepared for MCW staff, including MCTI requirements.   IDA has
granted PPF advances of US$600,000 in February 1989, and US$900,000 in October
1989  for feasibility  studies  and detailed engineering.   MCW is actively
undertaking its reorganization to include management of regional roads, and key
staff have been appointed for the RRD and all REOs. Structural changes to MCW's
internal organization were agreed at negotiations, and will commence by the
beginning of FY1990/91 (Annex 2-2).
4.24         MCW, through the Principal Secretary, will be responsible for
executing the project, and CODAP will coordinate project implementation within
MCW, with other government agencies and parastatals and with the 15 donors
(including IDA) financing the project.  Project coordination under the Sixth
Highway Project, notwithstanding delays in approving contracts, has been
satisfactory and preparation of the proposed project has proceeded well.
However, successful implementation of the proposed project will depend greatly
on the caliber of technical assistance; MCW headquarters and the core REO's are
expected to have up to 20 and 40 specialists, respectively, at any one time.
The project was appraised in June and July 1989, and negotiations were held in
April 1990. The IDA Credit is expected to become effective by October 1, 1990.
The project should be physically completed by December 31, 1997. Key actions
for implementing the IDA-financed components were agreed at negotiations
(Annex 4-10).
4.25         Because of the complexity of the project and the number of donors
involved in its financing, a Project Launch Workshop will be held in Tanzania
once the IDA Credit  is declared effective.   MCW directors  and Regional
Engineers, together with senior representatives from the Attorney General's
Chambers, the Planning Commission, MOF and the regional authorities will have
the opportunity to review, in detail, all the project components together with
the participating donors, and agree on an action plan for implementing the
project. In addition to annual donor conferences on IRP, a comprehensive review
will be carried out by November 30, 1992, on progress in implementing the
project, which will be concluded with an Implementation Review Workshop
involving the same participants as above. As indicated in paragraph 4.07, MCW
will also conduct annual workshops covering internal management and technical
matters. During negotiations agreement was reached that the Government will
conduct the following workshops and conferences on project implementation: the
Project Launch Workshop, annual workshops involving REO staff and MCW
headquarters staff, annual donors conferences, and, by November 30, 1992, an
Implementation Review Worlshop.



- 40 -
K. Procurement
4.26         Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement al
(US$ millions)
Total
Items to be Procured               ICB      LCB    Other    NA b/  Project Cost
1. Equipment, Spare Parts,        '7.1              1.6      0.6           29.3
Vehicles and Materials        (27.1)    (   )   (1.6) ( -  )            (28.7)
2. Equipment Repairs               1.3              5.4                     6.7
Including Spare Parts         ( 1.3)    (   )  ( 5.4) (      )         ( 6.7)
3. Equipment Hire                 11.8             11.8                    23.6
(4.2)    (   )  (4.1)(        )          ( 8.3)
4. Civil, Buildings and          338.7     59.9    10.0   335.9           744.5
Maintenance Works            ( 73.2)   (25.4)  ( 8.5) ( -  )           (107.1)
5. Consulting Services,                            39.4    27.6            67.0
Training, (Including Re-    (      )   (    )  (29.6) ( -  )           (29.6)
financing of PPF)
Total                            378.9     59.9    68.2    364.1          871.1
(105.8)   (25.4)  (49.2)  (  - )         (180.4)
a/ Figures in parentheses indicated financing by IDA.
b/ Not applicable (includes bilateral donors).
4.27         Procurement of civilworks, equipment, vehicles, and non-proprietary
spare parts will be carried out under ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Firms will be prequalified for civil works procured through ICB and LCB, and for
establishing private plant pools (ICB). To the extent possible, contracts for
goods and materials shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
US$200,000 or more.  Contracts for supply of goods and materials (including
repair contracts) estimated to cost less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate of
US$7.0 million may be procured through shopping. Equipment and spare parts of
a proprietary nature or subject to standardization may be procured, with prior
IDA agreement, through international shopping or directly where there is no
competition because of the proprietary nature of the goods.  Direct contracting
would be permitted for components critical for private or MCW workshops to
guarantee performances in equipment repairs and servicing. Equipment hire rates
will be established through ICB for private plant pools; MCW plant pool will use
equivalent rates.
4.28         Civil works and building contracts estimated to cost up to US$3.0
million up to an aggregate of US$30 million may be carried out by LCB procedures
which will include local advertising, prequalification, public bid opening,



- 41 -
specific criteria for bid evaluation ani award to the lowest evaluated bidder;
foreign firms, if interested, would not be precluded from bidding. For emergency
road works and for NCC's training progra.- for domestic contractors on road
rehabilitation and maintenance operations, wherever possible, contracts will be
awarded through LCB; but, in emergencies or when domestic contractors are
undergoing initial training, contracts estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million
up to an aggregate of US$10 million, may be awarded to firms based on unit rates
established with assistance of consultants and with prior IDA agreement.  In
these cases the reference unit rates will be specified in the bidding documents
and the bidders will be invited to bid by way of discount or increase to the
referenced rates. This procedure will particularly encourage, wvth assistance
of NCC consultants, the development of domestic firms.  The ov-i 11 amount of
civil, building and maintenance works contracted out through local procedures
under the project is expected to aggregate about US$70 million.
4.29         Consultants for techn3cal and managerial assistance, and for studies
will be appointed in accordance with Bank guidelines. Because of the need to
maintain continuity, the ongoing technical assistance to CODAP may be extended
to support coordination of the proposed project, and consultants engaged under
the Sixth Highway Project for rehabilitation of road equipment, fcr detailed
engineering and supervision of trunk road rehabilitation,  and for training
domestic contractors may complete these assignments which will be expanded under
the proposed project. Generally, consultants undertaking detailed engineering
will also supervise the works.
4.30         All procurement under the project will be reviewed by CODAP for
compliance with the provisions of the IDA Credit Agreement and relevant IDA
Guidelines.   All procurement packages above US$500,000 equivalent will be
subjected to prior review by IDA.   This is expected to cover 85Z of IDA
financing. Goods manufactured locally will be given a preference margin of up
to 15Z or applicable import duty whichever is less. Local contractors will be
eligible for a preference of 7.5Z for contracts under ICB. No special preference
will be permitted for parastatal companies. The procurement packages financed
by various cofinanciers will be prepared according to the respective donor
practices or guidelines.
L. Disbursements
4.31         Disbursements are expected to follow the historical disbursement
profile for IDA-financed highway projects in Tanzania, i.e. eight years. Initial
disbursements will be greater than historic levels due to refunding of the PPF
advance and the initial deposit into a special account (para 4.32). In order
to ease the Government's increasing budgetary burden for road rehabilitation and
maintenance (para 3.11), IDA will partly finance, road maintenance contracts,
and equipment hired by the REOs for road maintenance tasks, at rates established
through competitive bidding, by the plant pools. The Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1998. The IDA Credit will be disbursed against the
following categories, and on the basis of the estimated disbursement schedule
shown in Annex 4-11.



- 42 -
Allocation and Disbursement of IDS Credit
IDA Amount   Percent
Category     Description                          (USS Millions) Financed
1       Trunk road rehabilitation
and upgrading:
(a) FY1990191 Program                     29.7      1002 foreign
(b) FY1991192 Program                     20.6      and 50Z local
(c) FY1992/93 Program                     19.6      expenditures
2       Other roads, bridges, buildings            37.2     852
and road maintenance works
3       Equipment for road contractors              5.7     100? foreign
expenditures
4       Equipment, vehicles, spare parts            8.9     100? foreign
and materials                                       and 802 local
expenditures
5       Equipment, vehicles and spare parts        14.1     1002 foreign
for private plant pools                             expenditures
6       Equipment hire for road maintenance         8.3     35Z
by REOs.
7       Equipment and ferry repair contracts,       6.7     1ooZ
including transportation
8       Consultants' services:                     24.2     902
9       Training, seminars, fellowships             3.9     1002
and workshops:
10      Refunding of PPF Advance:                   1.5     Amounts due
TOTAL                                    180.4
4.32         Disbursements for procurement of goods and works costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent will be made against statements of expenditures (SOE).
Other disbursements will be made against standard documentation. A revolving
fund will be established for IDA funds in a Special Account opened in foreign
currency in the Central Bank in the name of MCW. An advance of US$8.0 million
from IDA funds into the Special Account will be made after Credit effectiveness,
to cover about four months of project expenditures eligible for IDA financing.
The Special Account will be replenished following applications for reimbursement
by MCW, together with appropriate supporting documentation or SOEs, as well as
bank statements. Reimbursement applications will be submitted to IDA whenever
accumulated withdrawals amount to US$200,000. The amount of IDA replenishment
will not exceed the authorized allocation.



- 43 -
4.33         Counterpart funds will be made available by the Government through
its budgetary allocations.   MCW, through CODAP, will manage all accounting
records and will prepare supporting documentation and SOEs.   Conditions of
Disbursement for the Second Year (FY1991/92) and the Third Year (FY1992/93) Trunk
Road Rehabilitation Programs (Annex 4-9, B) will be: (i) the Government has
approved the agreed annual budget allocations for those years: and (ii) adequate
and timely releases of funds from the previous fiscal year's budget for road
rehabilitation and maintenance of all trunk and regional roads have been made.
In particu!ar, approval by the Government of the agreed budget estimates for road
rehabilitr ion and maintenance for FY1990/91 will be a Condition of Effectiveness
(para 3.12).
M. Reporting and Auditing
4.34       CODAP will prepare brief monthly reports for MCW management and
copied to all participating donors, tabulating physical and financial progress
during the previous month and accumulated against agreed targets, and
highlighting areas and aspects which are causing problems, with recommendations
for solving them. These monthly reports will be distributed by the last day of
each month and should be the subject of the following week's management meeting;
minutes of these meetings are to be attached to the following monthly report,
with comments on actions taken in resolving previous recommendations. CODAP will
also prepare quarterly progress reports on the project :;)r all participating
donors, to be sent within two months of the end of each reporting period. These
reports will summarize the status of the various components, highlighting issues
related to IDA and the other donors. Within six months of closure of the IDA
Credit, CODAP will prepare a report on implementation of the project, with
particular emphasis on the IDA-financed components.
4.35       Annual audits will be carried out by auditors acceptable to IDA on
the project accounts, ir.cluding the Special Account and SOEs, and the MCW Plant
Pool. Each audit report, together with a management letter for the agencies
receiving assistance under the project, will be sent to IDA within six months
of the end of the fiscal year.  The management letter will include observations
and suggestions of the auditor regarding possible improvements of accounting and
financial practices, internal financial management and control and operating
procedures. In addition, MCW will prepare internal audits at the end of each
quarter on expenditures incurred by the REOs for road maintenance and works under
their authority, and for MCW's Plant Pool, with comparisons made between
production targets and achievements during the quarter. These audits are to be
sent to IDA and donors assisting the REOs within one month of the end of each
quarter. During negotiations agreement was reached on reporting and auditing
requirements.
N. Environmental Impact and Involvement of Women
4.36       A  substantial  segment  of  the  project  is  devoted  to  road
rehabilitation which, per se, will have no adverse effect on the environment;
although special care needs to be taken during execution of road works and
maintenance to ensure that environmental hazards are not created, even if of
short duration. In particular, pollution from equipment emissions, camp sites,
workshops, road spoil and stagnant water in borrow pits, as well as off-road



- 44 -
traffic can cause adverse environmental effects if not properly controlled.
Also, health hazards need to be averted, because of the concentrations of workers
during construction and their inevitable close contact with local inhabitant^.
During negotiations agreement was reached that specific aspects affecting the
environment will be included in the terms of reference for studies and conditions
of contract for procurement of works and goods. In particular, all terms of
reference and contract documents will include specific reference to any aspects
of the studies, installations, equipment or works which may have adverse
environmental impact. Attention will be given to including appropriate measures
for off-road traffic, roadworks deposits, camps and workshops, especiall- in
national parks and wetlands.   Contractors will also be required to provide
appropriate immunization and health services to workers and families. Disposal
of waste from camps, workshops, and worksites will be regulated: borrow pits and
drainage works must be free draining, erosion controls properly designed; plant,
equipment and vehicles equipped and maintained with adequate noise and pollution
controls; road traffic diversion and safety measures properly installed and
maintained, and camps and workshops must have adequate sanitary facilities and
incorporate measures for dealing with contaminated run-off and waste.
4.37       Under NORAD-funded rural road maintenance programs in Tanga and Mbeya
Regions a concerted effort has been made in recent years to increasing employment
of women in road maintenance tasks; in several districts, this nas led to about
30% of the contracted work fotce being women. Recommendations, prepared by NORAD
consultants, based on experience obtained under these programs will be built on
during the project; in particular, during negotiations it was agreed that the
Government will increase the opportunities for employment of women in rural road
maintenance programs, and facilitate the improvement in their work conditions.
Terms of reference for consultants assisting the REOs will include the
recommendations outlined in Annex 4-12.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Justification
5.01       The IRP is an integrated package of investments, sectoral policy
reforms and institutional reorganization as described in previous chapters.
The project is justified by (a) the contribution it makes to the overall
performance of the economy through reduction in the cost of economic activity
and improvement in access throughout the country; (b) the depth and Dreadth of
policy reforms and institutional changes which are being undertaken by the
Government as a precondition to project implementation; and (c) the high economic
benefits generated by the individual investments to be undertaken in the project.
As detailed in Section C of this chapter, the project can be justified on the
basis of the high returns on physical investments alone.   Overall ERR is
estimated to be about 24% with an average annual savings on vehicle operating
costs of at least US$80 million or a little over 10X of total physical
investment.  However, the main Justification of the project is based on the
policy and institutional reforms that will make the investments sustainable in
the long term, particularly in terms of proper maintenance of the road network.
More specifically, the proposed project is justified in thats



- 45 -
(a) The Government has reorganized the structure of roads administration,
charging MCW with the responsibility for managing essential rural roads,
and altering the role of the Government from doing the work itself, to
contracting the works to the private sector and concentrating its efforts
on policy framework and supervision of implementation (para 2.17);
(b) The Government has increased the budget allocation to the rolds sector,
per the recommendation of the Public Expenditure Review of 1989. and
changed its investment policy to concentrate on road rehabilitation and
agreed to meet 1002 of road maintenance budget requirements by FY1995/6
(para 3.11);
(c) To finance the i,;reased budget allocation for the roads sector,
Government has formulated a plan to increa,-- the revenue intake from
road users through streamlining of user charges and improving revenue
cvllection (para 3.11);
(d) The  Government  vill  institute  interim  procurement  guidelines  for
implementation of the project, which will simplify and standardize the
documentation required for contracts and delegate to MCW the authority
to award contracts, and will commission a study to review its procurement
procedures (para 2.24);
(e) The Government will institute a new policy for the local construction
industry which, inter alia, promotes the expansion of local contractors
to carry out increasing percentage of road works (para 3.10); and                 -
(f) The Government has initiated actions to establish privately operated
plant pools to manage road maintenance equipment (para 2.20).
B. Proiect Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.02       The composite impact of the integrated package being implemented
under the project will be felt by the mid-1990s.   Tanzania will have a road
network in good condition which satisfies the basic requirements of the economy
and the capacity to maintain the network in stable good condition. Specifically:
(a) MCW headquarters would be transformed into a smaller policy, advisory and
supervision-orierted ministry with physical works being managed by the REOs, much
of which will be carried out by contract; (b) necessary routine and periodic
maintenance being carried out as required with sufficient funding; and
(c) significant improvement will be achieved in the movement of goods and people
throughout the country with parallel reduction ir cost cf transport.
5.03       The direct project benefits from the rehabilitation and maintenance
components will be a reduction in vehicle operating costs (voc). The forecasts
of voc reductions were obtained based on feasibility studies using common
assumptions on the vehicle operation data, cost of inputs and a common analytical
model (Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model - HDM Model - developed
by the Bank). The reduction in voc will be translated into lower tranepeort zosts
for the movement of agricultural products and inputs.
5.04       There are ancillary benefits which have not been taken into account
in the economic analysis.   These are the benefits from improved access and



- 46 -
mobility, which would contribute to stimulating production in areas which had
limited access prior to rehabilitation, provide year round access in areas which
currently are shut off during the rainy season, and reduce spoilage and losses
caused by lack of transport being available at the right time. Additionally,
since road maintenance and rural road rehabilitation is by nature labor
intensive, the project will generate substantial employment opportunities during
the construction period and provide a steady flow of income to the local
inhabitants engaged in road maintenance activities. Given that an average of
502 of maintenance and 15? of rehabilitation costs are in labor cost, the project
will generate employment equivalent to about US$85 million under rehabilitation
work over a five-year period and US$6 million annually in maintenance work.
Since the road works are spread widely throughout the country, most parts of the
country will benefit from the employment generated from the project.  These
benefits have not been included in the economic analysis.
C. Economic Returns
5.05       For the purposes of economic analysis, the project has been separated
into three components: (a) paved trunk road rehabilitation; (b) unpaved trunk
road rehabilitation; and (c) regional road rehabilitation.   In these three
analyses, routine and periodic maintenance activities have been included as
costs, and therefore, a separate economic analysis of the maintenance budget
support has not been carried out. Technical assistance and training are expected
to have a generally beneficial effect on all MCW activities, and the qualitative
benefits have not been analyzed. The three components which have been analyzed
account for 82Z of the total project.
Methodology
5.06       There have been two basic methodologies used for evaluation of
various road sections for their economic feasibility.  First, for the trunk
roads, the HDM model was used as the primary model for economic analysis and
common data for voc and input prices used by consultants.   Second, for the
regional roads, TRRL III model in combination with production surplus model has
been used to carry out the economic evaluation.  In both cases, the primary
benefit is the voc savings derived from the road rehabilitation, and in all
cases, the analysis includes routine and periodic maintenance costs in the
evaluation to assume proper maintenance of the rehabilitated. road sections.
5.07       In selecting the relevant road sections to be rehabilitated, priority
has been given to the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the individual
sections.  In addition, however, prioritization of the relevant economically
justified road sections has been done based on the strategic importance of each
road section to the economic activities in the country. For the trunk roads,
priority has been given to rehabilitation of three main transport corridors
radiating from the city of Dar es Salaam. These are: (a) TANZAM corridor to
Zambia and linking Malawi; (ii) Dar es Salaam-Chalinze-Tanga-Himo Jct.-Arusha
corridor (to Kenya); and (iii) Dar es Salaam-Morogoro-Dodoma-Singida-Mwanza-
Kagera corridor (to the landlocked countries of Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda).
These three corridors transit the majority of the regions with high agricultural
potential and provide the main road arteries for the neighboring landlocked
countries. In addition, a southern corridor extending from Lake Nyasa (Malawi)
through Songea to the port cities of Lindi/Mtwara has been included. This part



- 47 -
of Tanzania has very low road network density despite its production potential
for cashew nuts (export commodity) and recurrent problems with famine due to wide
fluctuations in basic food production. For the regional roads, a study has been
carried out on the major agrichltural production regions in the country, and
within these selected core regions, the most critical road sections for movement
of agricultural produce have been selected for rehabilitation (IBRD Map 22067).
Paved Trunk Road Rehabilitation
5.08       The total length of paved trunk roads to be rehabilitated or resealed
under the project is 1,700 km. In addition, 370 km of TANZAM highway is being
rehabilitated under the on-going Sixth Highway Project financed by IDA. NORAD
and AfDF. The total rehabilitation works to be carried out on the paved trunk
roads over the next eight years will thus be 2,070 km or 702 of the total paved
trunk road network. Feasibility studies have been carried out for all the road
sections and the traffic growth rate varies from 3.52 to 7.02 p.a. The estimated
ERR ranges between 122 to 3502 with a weighted average of 242 (ignoring the high
ERRs). The rates on individual sections are satisfactory and relevant data are
shown in Annex 5-1.
Unpaved Trunk Roads Rehabilitation
5.09       The total length of unpaved trunk roads to be rehabilitated under
the project is 2,550 km.   In addition, 130 km of gravel roads are being
rehabilitated under the on-going Sixth Highway Project financed by IDA. Over
the next  eight-year  period,    2,680 km of unpaved  trunk  roads will  be
rehabilitated (41? of the gravel road network), and 340 km will be upgraded to
paved standards.  Feasibility studies have been carried out for all the road
sections and the traffic growth rate varies from 3.52 to 5.02 p.a.  The estimated
ERR ranges between 152 and 2102 with a weighted average of 192 (ignoring the high
ERRs). The rates on individual sections are satisfactory and relevant data are
shown in Annex 5-1.
Regional Roads Rehabilitation
5.10       The total length of regional roads to be rehabilitated under the
project is 3,000 km in eleven regions. This is equivalent to 302 of the regional
road network in the eleven core regions, or 23Z of the total regional network
in the country. Feasibility studies have been carried out for the first 1,300
km to be rehabilitated and the estimated ERR averages about 37Z. Methodology
for economic analysis has been agreed and the standardized format will be used
for screening the selection of the remaining 1,700 km to be rehabilitated under
the proposed project. In any case, rehabilitation will not be carried out for
road sections with less than 122 ERR.  The rates on individual sections and
relevant data are shown in Annex 5-2.
Total Project Cost, Benefits and ERR
5.11       The distribution of project economic costs is shown below together
with the relevant ERR.   The estimated ERR on the total project, excluding
technical assistance and studies, is 242, covering 832 of the total project cost.
The overall ERRs and the individual ERRs are satisfactory.



- 48 -
Summary of Economic Rate of Return
Trunk    Trunk                Total       Road      Tech.
Paved    Gravel   Regional   Roads   Maintenance Assist. Total
2 of Total
Project Cost    61        15         7         83           10        7      100
ERR (2)          24        19       37         24                    N.A.    24
*** = included in the road economic analysis
D. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
5.12       The three main variables which would affect the economic benefits
on the road rehabilitation and maintenance components of the project are: (a) a
failure of the economy to continue its recovery, hence for traffic to increase
as estimated; and (b) rehabilitation costs to exceed estimates.  To test the
effect of these variations, the following assumptions were employed for each
category of road rehabilitation: (a) rehabilitation costs increased by 252; (b)
zero traffic growth; and (c) a combination of the two.  The effects of these
alternative assumptions on the ERR are still within an acceptable range of 12X
to 37Z. The results are shown below.
Summary of Economic Rate of Return
(Z)
Trunk     Trunk                Total
Paved     Gravel    Regional  Roads
Base Case              24        19          37       23
Costs +25Z             19        16          32       19
Zero Traffic Growth   18         14          29       18
Combined Effect        16        12          25       16
5.13         The success of the project, however, hinges ultimately on MCW's
capacity to execute the program. The particular risks include: (i) slow progress
on privatization initiatives; (ii) failure to effect the agreed procedures to
delegate executive authority for contracting goods, works and services; and (iii)
failure to meet the agreed road budget targets. To guard against these risks,
experiences learned from past projects have been incorporated into the project
design: (i) by undertaking the main institutional and policy changes prior to
project effectiveness, including (a) changes in the procurement regulations, (b)
appropriation of the agreed road budget for the first year of project
implementation, and (c) reorganization of roads administration; (ii) by
conditioning the approval of road work contracts  financed by IDA on the
Government appropriating the agreed annual road budget; (iii) by completing the
engineering works for the first two years of the program prior to Credit
approval; (iii) by developing closer coordination amongst the Government, donors
and IDA; and (iv) by stationing in Tanzania an experienced highway engineer from
the Bank to assist the Government in coordinating implementation of the project.



- 49 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOHENDUTIONS
6.01         During negotiations, agreement was reached or confirmed on the
following points:
(a) Target pavement design standards (para 2.02);
(b) MCW to prepare an action plan for establishment of private plant pools,
and ensure that these will be autonomouu entities and enable them to
charge commercial rates for equipment hire (para 2.21);
(c) Road maintenance strategy and annual physical and budgetary targets,
based on the expected financial support by IDA and other donors (para
3.09);
(d) The National Construction Industry Development Strategy (para 3.10);
(e) The Government shall increase its revenue collection, primarily through
revenue from road users, with a view to funding the increased costs of
road maintenance, while maintaining the present level, in real terms,
of net contributions to the Government's general revenues (para 3.12);
(f) The GoverDment's annual contribution to funding road maintenance, with
the objective of fully covering road maintenance requirements from the
Government's own resources by FY1995/96 (para 3.12);
(g)  Annual reviews with IDA and other participating donors, by March 31 of
each year of: (i) the road network stabilization program; and
(ii) proposals for the next three fiscal years of road investment and
maintenance activities, including physical, financial and training
aspects; and reach agreement with IDA on the budget estimates for the
following fiscal year for rehabilitation and maintenance of the trunk
road network, and regional road networks in, at least, the core regions
(para 3.13);
(h) Any proposed investment in the road sector, estimated to cost over
US$3.0 million equivalent to have an estimated economic rate of return
of at least 122, taking into account socioeconomic criteria acceptable
to IDA (para 3.13);
(i) Terms of reference for technical assistance to MCW and its REOs, and
associated MCW staffing requirements; key MCW staff associated with the
project will not be reassigned in such a manner as to be detrimental to
project implementation (para 4.05);
(j) Vehicle weight control and road safety programs to be formulated by July
1, 1991, including a definition of responsibilities for implementation,
and promptly thereafter commence implementation of the programs
(para 4.12).
(k) Details of the interim procurement regulations and draft standard
procurement documents (para 4.13);



- 50 -
(1) Terms of reference for undertaking a general revision of Tanzania's
procurement regulations, including assistance in implementing supply
management procedures, and that implementation of the revised regulations
and procedures will commence by December 31, 1993 (para 4.13);
(m)  Rural roads to be improved under the project will be selected through
applying agreed standard evaluation criteria satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.15);
(n) Objectives and scope of the equipment repair and scrapping program, and
tentative equipment requirements for the plant pools (para 4.18);
(o) Plan of action to improve the delivery of urban transport services,
including institutional reorganization and appropriate pricing policy,
will be furnished for IDA's review by December 31, 1990 (para 4.19);
(p) Structural changes to MCW's internal organization, which will commence
by the beginning of FY1990/91 (para 4.23);
(q) Key actions for implementing the IDA-financed components (para 4.24);
(r)  Government to conduct the following workshops and conferences on project
implementation: the Project Launch Workshop; annual workshops involving
REO staff and MCW headquarters staff; annual donors conferences; and,
by November 30, 1992, an Implementation Review Workshop (para 4.25);
(s) Reporting and auditing requirements (para 4.35);
(t) Specific aspects affecting the environment to be included in terms of
reference for studies and conditions of contract for procurement of
works and goods, in particular those aspects that may have adverse
environmental impact (para 4.36); and
(u) Increase the opportunities for employment of women in rural road
maintenance programs, and facilitate the improvement in their work
conditions (para 4.37).
6.02         The Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) National Construction Industry Development Strategy has been adopted by
the Government (para 3.10);
(b) Procedures and documentation for the interim procurement regulations have
been finalized (para 4.13);
(c) Selection of consultants, by MOF, for -ndertaking the Procurement
Regulations and Supply Management Study (para 4.13);
(d)  Preparation of regulations for establishing MCW's plant pool, and bidding
documents and the list of prequalified companies for private plant pools,
all to the satisfaction of IDA (para 4.18); and
i



- 51 -
(e)  Approval by the Government of the agreed budget estimates for road
rehabilitation and maintenance for FY1g9O/91 (para 4.33).
6.03         The Conditions of Disbursement for the Second Year (FY1991/92) and
the Third Year (FY1992193) Trunk Road Rehabilitation Programs will be that:
(a) the Government has allocated the agreed annual budget allocations for
those years; and
(b) adequate and timely releases of funds from the previous fiscal year's
budget for road rehabilitation and maintenance of all trunk and regional
roads have been made (para 4.33).
6.04         Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Credit to the Government of Tanzania in the amount of SDR 139.9
million (US$180.4 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms.



- 52 -                      Annex 1-1
Page 1 of 6
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Past Lending in the Transport Sector
PROJECT NAME        First Highway Projects
(Cr. 48-TA/Cr. 115-TA for US$17.0 million)
PPAR NO.            791 of June 26, 1975
1.        The US$14 million credit (48-TA) of February 1964 was to finance the
foreign exchange cost of engineering and construction of eight road sections.
Shortly thereafter, most expatriate staff in the Roads and Aerodromes Division
(RAD) of the Ministry of Communications and Works left the country.   RAD's
professional manpower was depleted and project implementation seriously delayed.
In addition, the work quantities of the project, based on preliminary engineer-
ing, had been underestimated, and prices had escalated. IDA reappraised and
revised the project, and provided a US$ 3 million supplementary credit (115-
TA) in March 1968. The revised project was to: retain detailed engineering and
construction of 533 mi of six of the eight road sections, extend detailed
engineering of the section of the Tanzam Highway between Morogoro and Iringa
from 104 mi to 142 mi but omit construction; include detailed engineering of
feeder roads (110 mi of four secondary roads and 98 mi of tertiary roads) on the
Geita Peninsula as well as a five-year program of staffing and training for RAD;
and omit construction of the Musoma-North Mara road section.
2.        Road construction was completed satisfactorily by 1970, and the
detailed engineering work was carried out as envisaged.  Engineering of the
Morogoro-Iringa section was subsequently implemented under the Second Highway
Project. Engineering of the Geita Roads, after further revision, became the
basis for their upgrading under the Third Highway Project. The staffing and
training program was carried out to a limited extent because of slowness in
recruiting expatriates and shortage of African staff to be trained. The actual
cost of the revised project was US$ 22.2 million, or 32 less than estimated.
The Project was completed in July 1973.
PROJECT NAME              Second Highway Project
(Ln. 586-TA/Cr. 142-TA for US$22.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  4030 of June 30, 1982
3.        The project approved in February 1969 assisted the construction of
two difficult sections, aggregating 499 km, of the Tanzam Highway. The goal
of providing Zambia with a reliable outlet to the sea was effectively achieved,
contrary to appraisal expectations, Zambia traffic did not abandon the highway
when the TAZARA railway was opened in 1975.  The actual cost of the project was           E
US$35.2 million, or 7 2 less than estimated.  The Project was completed in
December 1978.



- 53 -
Annex 1-1
Page 2 of 6
PROJECT NAME              East Africa Community
Second and Third Harbour Project
(Loans 638 and 865-EA for US$61.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  4029 of June 30, 1982
4.        The two projects approved in July 1969 and January 1972 were to help
implement the East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC) 1969-72 and 1972-74
development programs.   In addition to various  smaller modernization and
improvement works, the program included, at Mombasa, the construction of a
specialized wharf to handle bulk cement, two deep-water berths, a single buoy
tanker mooring, and the completion of three berths started under a previous
Bank-financed project. In addition, at Tanga the programs included improvement
of lighterage facilities.
5.        Completion of the civil works significantly increased the capacity
of these ports and assisted the East African Community, until its demise in
1977, in expediting its foreign trade. Without the projects the economies of
Kenya and Tanzania, but also of Uganda, Zambia, Rwanda and Burundi, would have
faced serious constraints, and congestion at both Mombasa and Dar es Salaam
ports would have reached levels well beyond the proportions which prevailed in
the early 19708. The two projects had joint cost overruns of about 30Z counting
only the items which were completed by December 31, 1981. The actual project
cost was about US$136.7 million.
PROJECT NAME              East Africa Community
Third Railway Project
(Lns. 638 and 865-EA for US$42.4 million)
PPAR NO.                  4533 of June 30, 1983
6.        The project was approved to assist East African Railways (EAR) in
implementing a policy package designed to streamline the Railway's tariff
structure and bring down its costs to allow it to recoup profitable business
it had lost to road transport and effectively compete with trucking in the
future, while at the same time remaining a commercially viable operation. The
project involved actions on two fronts: realignment of tariffs, and implemen-
tation of an investment and cost reduction program.
7.        On completion the project had failed to achieve full implementation
on either objective. Full implementation of a cost-based tariff structure was
not achieved, because the economic, political and operational consequences of
implementing the new tariff were not foreseen.   Full implementation of the
investment and the cost reduction programs failed to materialize because of the
Borrower's financial troubles, caused by political differences among the Member
Governments in the East African Community.   The estimated project cost was
US$90.8 million; the actual cost is unknown.



- 54-                        Annex 1-1
Page 3 of 6
PROJECT NAME              Third Highway Project
(Cr. 265-TA/Ln. 586-TA for US$6.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  4031 of June 30. 1982
8.        The  Third  Highway  Project,  approved  in  July  1971,  was  later
supplemented by a transfer of a USS 1.9 million surplus from Loan 586-TA
originally approved for the Second Highway Project. These funds were to help
finance: the construction of 200 km of the Mtwara-Ningoyo-Masasi road in
southern Tanzania; the improvement and maintenance of 475 km of feeder roads
in Geita district (310 km) and Mara region (165 km): and preinvestment studies,
consultant costs for supervision, technical assistance and training.
9.        The project was not a success, although two of its components (paving
the road between Mtwara and Masasi and carrying out preinvestment studies) were
realized. However, the first was accomplished with significant cost overruns
(215Z). and the second with significant qualifications. Improvement of feeder
roads in the Geita peninsula and the Mara region were short-lived. Training of
Tanzanian engineers met limited success, and the staffing program was not
carried out. The actual cost of the project, which was completed on December
1978, was US$25.2 million, 265Z above estimates. The project closed in December
1978.
PROJECT NAME              Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project
(Cr. 507-TA for US$10.2 million)
PPAR NO.                  6483 of November 7, 1986
10.       The project approved in September 1974 was the first of a two-phase
effort to establish a trunk road maintenance organization.  The first phase
covered about 3,300 km of trunk roads in the southern half of the country and
the second phase, which was financed under the Fifth Highway Project (Credit
876-TA), covered about 5,100 km of trunk roads in the northern half of the
country. The project was the outcome of a "Tanzania Highway Maintenance and
Organization Study' which was carried out in 1972 by consultants financed by
the United States Agency for International Development.
11.       Little progress was achieved over the first six years because of the
inability of COMWORKS to utilize adequately the technical assistance.  COMWORKS
proposed a recasting of the project which was eventually approved by IDA in
1981. The final agreement called for the procurement of spare parts, few pieces
of equipment and technical assistance. COMWORKS undertook to execute a highway
maintenance program consisting of resealing 214 km, regravelling 186 km,
pavement repairs for 840 km, and routine maintenance of a network which had
expanded from 3,300 km at the beginning of project in 1974 to 4,900 km in 1979
with the incorporation of more roads into the network to be maintained by
COMWORKS. The project was closed on December 31, 1982 with US$ 0.86 million of
the original Credit of US$ 10.2 million cancelled. There was little improve-
ment in routine maintenance and standards of resealing and regravelling.



- 55 -                      Annex 1-1
Page 4 of 6
12.       COMWORKS had an inadequate implementation capacity and found it
difficult to fill vacant positions, particularly engineers. Senior staff were
engaged in the day-to-day running of the ministry with not much time left to
administer and attend to the requirements of the technical assistance staff
financed by the project. The actual project cost was US$10.5 million, 84Z of
estimates. The project closed in December 1982.
PROJECT MAME              Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement
Project (Cr. 743-TA for US$15.0 million)
PPAR NO.                  7571 of December 30, 1988
13.       The Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project approved
in October 1977 was to finance the foreign exchange costs of trunks, technical
assistance and workshop facilities for selected public companies, provide
foreign exchange to Government in support of the liberalization of spare parts
imports and provide assistance to a transport industry training institute.
14.       The project was to support Government's efforts to reverse the deter-
iorating trend in truck transport, to be achieved mainly through assistance to
the public sector segment of the industry: (i) to strengthen the operating
capability of selected companies in regions where agricultural activity was
severely constrained by inadequate truck transport services through procurement
and rehabilitation of trucks and through strengthening of management and
management information systems; and (ii) to put these trucking companies on a
sound financial footing through both operating improvements and covenanted
requirements for adequate rates to ensure that they can be self-financing.
15.       Project components included: (i) provision of trucks and spare parts
for the rehabilitation of trucks and for five selected RETCOs; (ii) technical
assistance for management operations and training of staff of the selected
RETCOs; (iii) provision of workshop equipment for the selected RETCOs; (iv)
strengthening of the recently-established National Institute of Transport
through  the provision  of instructors,  teaching aids  and equipment;  (v)
replenishment of the country's inventory of spare parts; and (iv) provision of
technical assistance to the project implementation agency, NTC, for project
coordination, monitoring and policy advice.
16.       The project represented the Bank Group's first direct assistance to
the Tanzania trucking industry. As such, it was a logical extension of its
close involvement in the development of Tanzania's road network. Assistance
to the industry was provided in the context of strong Government commitment to
the development of the regional trucking companies (kETCOs) whose operating
performance has been satisfactory, given the constraints under which they
operate.  However, this performance has been attained and is, at least for the
near future, sustainable only with a significant input of technical assistance.
Nonetheless, given the much poorer operating performance of other parastatal
transport operations, the assistance to the RETCOs has been a satisfactory use
of the Association's resources. The actual project cost was US$21.4 million,
17X above estimates. The project closed in June 1985.



- 56 -                      Annex 1-1
Page 5 of 6
PROJECT NAME              Fifth Highway Project
(Cr. 876-TA for US$20.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  6938 of September 15, 1987
17.       This project, approved in January 1979, was the second phase of the
effort to establish a trunk road maintenance organization in the country. and
the Fifth Project included the establishment of routine maintenance capability
for about 5,100 km of primary roads in the northern half of the country, the
rehabilitation and regravelling of about 2,040 km of trunk roads, procurement
of road maintenance and rehabilitation equipment, construction of road
maintenance camps, workshops, and housing and technical assistance and training.
18.       Procurement of equipment, vehicles, and spares was affected by initial
delays due to differences of views between the Government and IDA over the
sufficiency of notification for ICB. When this was resolved and delivery was
due, the 1983-1984 suspension of disbursements by IDA for all projects in the
country caused further delays and most of the items of equipment did not arrive
until late 1984. Two advisors were appoint on an individual basis and two key
advisors were provided by a consulting firm. They all arrived separately over
a period of two years. Thus, from the beginning it was difficult to adopt a
coordinated approach.
19.       The project fell short of completing its physical objectives and some
of the works carried out have fallen into disrepair due mainly to the poor
quality of the original works.   Maintenance of roads has been instituted, but
the quality of the work still does not keep the road in acceptable condition.
Training at the Highway Authority's facilities at Morogoro improved, but local
personnel were not yet able to take over as instructors at the end of the
program. About 120 students graduated as engineers at Indian universities.
20.       A major disappointment was that the quality of the roads did not
improve as expected although the funds were spent. What went wrong was that
a few critical elements needed to actually perform the maintenance work were
missing. When the labor and material were available, the equipment was not
operational for lack of spare parts or fuel or tires, etc. As a result, some
of the roads have crumbled to the point where reconstruction at a high cost is
required. The actual cost was US$22.5 million, 882 of estimate. Thet project
closed in December 1985.
PROJECT NAME              Port Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1536 TA for US$27.0 million)
PLANNED COMPLETION        December 31, 1989
21.       The  project  approved  in was  is  designed  to provide  for  the
rehabilitation and modernization of the port of Dar-es-Salaam which, besides
being Tanzania's major port, also serves as an important regional port for
Burundi, Malawi, Zaire, Rwanda and Zambia. The project would provide special
container handling facilities and equipment, replace some deteriorated general
cargo equipment, modernize grain handling facilities rehabilitate lighterage
facilities and the petroleum jetty, repave sections of berths, and provide for
a review of additional rehabilitation requirements, technical assistance,
training and consultancy services.



- 57 -                      Annex 1-1
Page 6 of 6
PROJECT NAME              Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project
(Credit 1688-TA for US$50 million)
PLANNED COMPLETION December 31, 1991
22.       The project,  approved in May 1986,  is to reduce constraints by
transport on the economy by rehabilitating the most important sections of the
highway network. An important project objective is to improve the system of
road maintenance works by contract rather than by force account, by increasing
the capabilities of the local contracting industry. The project also provides
assistance to expand the capacity and efficiency of the trucking industry, and
to increase the availability of trained engineers in Tanzania. The Executing
Agencies are the Ministry of Communications and Works, the Ministry of Educa-
tion, the National Construction Council, and the National Transport Corporation.
Cofinancing from DANIDA (US$ 2.0 million equivalent), NORAD (US$ 6.9 million
equivalent) and a loan from the AfDF (US$ 19.4 million equivalent).
23.       The appraised project consisted of: (a) a road rehabilitation program
consisting of the rehabilitation of about 295 km of the TANZAM Highway, and 700-
1000 km of gravel roads; (b) an equipment rehabilitation program; (c) a
maintenance spares supply program to the trucking industry; (d) assistance to
the local contracting industry; (e) TA and consulting services for construction
supervision, agricultural feeder roads study and feasibility studies and
detailed engineering; and (f) training.
24.       Execution of the main project components: trunk road rehabilitation
and equipment rehabilitation have started slowly. For the roads works, detailed
designs had to be updated, and the resulting costs were well above appraisal
estimates.    Consequently,  the  project  scope  was  amended  and  the  road
rehabilitation was concentrated on the TANZAM Highway which was expanded to
about 370 km (NORAD also provided an additional NK 60 million); most of the
gravel road sections have been transferred to the proposed Integrated Roads
Project.   Contracts have been awarded for three of the five TANZAM road
sections, and wnrk is commencing.
25.       The equipment rehabilitation program has made negligible progress,
primarily due to weak management in the Electrical and Mechanical Department of
MCW, and to the cumbersome and inefficient procurement procedures of the
Government.   MCW contracted in early 1990 a task manager to expedite the
program, setting targets for equipment rehabilitation and preventive
maintenance.
26.       The training programs have been progressing steadily, ulthough on-
the-job training of domestic contractors (130 km of gravel roads have been
selected) has yet to start because of inaction by MCW to finalize contract
documents and the special conditions needed for training small inexperienced
contractors.
27.       Overall, despite the slow start, rapid progress is expected over the
next three years, now that most of the procurement bottlenecks have been
overcome.
AF61N
March 1990



- 58 -                          Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Classification of Road Networks
TRUNK ROADS                                        Target Dimensions (m)
Class A: International  through  routes
handling significant proportion
of   international   traffic.                      9.t0.00
Passes through several regions,
starts and terminates at border            -1s  1, 0.v. o       1,. -K
entry/exit points or at ports.                 '1
Usually on the other side of the                 MU   ,CwGST
border  there  is  a  road  of
similar class, thus enhancing        . 
its status or potential status       ___
as interregional or continental
highway.
1M..
Class B: Main links to the Class A roads           7m l              I - '  V
and often traverses through
several  regions.      Carries                  ___----____ o
significant    international
traffic   or   internal   long         / 
distance traffic.
1-      8.w-09.0      A       .
Class C: Main  internal  routes,  often             1                  .
confined within  one  region.               I l,     .        1  
Connects or links higher class
roads to minor border posts,                            os DST
towns, industrial and commercial
mining,    and    agricultural         / 
centers.
9.50.10.00
Class D: Urban through roads.  Normally
continuation of Class A roads              ,0.6-7.00
or links from Class A roads to                         ACMDST
city/municipality town center,
international ports and major        1W
national airports.



- 59                            Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
REGIONAL ROADS                                      Target Dimensions (unpaved)
Class E: Main regional roads, carrying
mainly interregional traffic,
connects regional headquartersn
and   district   headquarters.
Connects or links Class A and                        50
B roads to important agricul-             -__,__1___
tural,   mining   and   mining
commercial/market centers.                       225     D
Class F: Links district headquarters to
higher class roads or connects
important  locations  in  the                        .50.
district   to   the   district          -C
headquarters.
FEEDER ROADS
Class G: These are village access roads             |          410
important  for  evacuation  of
crops from farm gate to market
or godovns.
Note: The design pavement dimensions will depend on traffic volumes,
topography and economic feasibility.
AC: Asphalt concrete pavement
DST: Double surface treatment pavement
Source: MCW and mission
AF6IN March 1990



.............. .... ......  .......... .. . . . . .............   .... ...... ... .... ...... .....  ........... .....----------T--:
M~~~i i  i t!i lii X                                   i'3' 
.__               s00
~iIi-- =i iIIIi    _i                                      III
09                          _  I
z_z , ~~- 09 -



TANZANIA: INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND WORKS (MCW)
PROPOSED REORGANIZATION AT HEADQUARTERS AFFECTING
THE ROADS FUNCTION
DEPUTYf 
PRI"IPAL    8~~ECRErARY
SECRETARY 
cow                     AND
*W-
PM                             WS5OCTOTE
=                _   DKF      NWE~~~~~~~~~~OCTOFI
pom
1   1                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LASOftTOM~~~~~~~~~~~~f
(FUTURE STATUS TO BE STUDIED)
tlBD5   _   Rt=DS     .             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
tR     21EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TANZANIA: INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND WORKS (MCW)
ORGANIZATION OF MODEL REGIONAL ENGINEER'S OFFICE
PRINCIPAL
SECRETARY
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT              PLANNING AND BUDGETING                              TECHNICAL ADVICE
DIRECTOR                   ---------------------------------------    REGIONAL    ------------------------      DISTRICT ENGINEER
(COORDINATION)                       ADVICE                           ENGINEER
C%
FINANCE          ADMINISTRATION         TRAINING
PERSON NLL 
WORKS           AfN.OFCRTRAININGI
ACCOUNTANT        ADI.OFCROFFICER
RURAL ROADS       TRUNK ROADS&            PLANNING           MATERIALS                              ELECTRICALAND
AERODROMES          PROGRAAMING          LABORATORY           BUILDINaS           MECHANICAL            REGOtAL
& DESIGN                                    ~~~~~~~~WORKSHOPS      STORES
RURA.. ROADS        TRUNK ROADS          PLANNING             MATERIALS           ENGINEER1         E& N E EER             REGIONAL
ENGINEE (RRE)I   ENGINEER (TRE) I         NIER    IENGINEER                       ARCNITECT          E&MGNERSTORES OFFICER
Detalls below this level shown
In chart 3B                                                                                                                                                  c 
>,x
mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 



TANZANIA: INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND WORKS (MCW)
TYPICAL ROADS ORGANIZATION IN REGIONAL ENGINEER'S OFFICE
REGIONAL
ENGIEERL
TRUNKFMDGA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DSRC
AERODROMEO                                                                                                      RUPAL ROAD
TRUNK ROADS                                                                                                    RURAL ROADS
ENatNEER (TRE)                                                                                                 ENGINEER (RRIE         DISTRICT
_  REHABILITATION                                                                   ENGINEER'S
ON8TRUCTION
OFFICE~~~~~~~~
CONTRACT          ARACONTRACT                                                                                        AREA
LABOUR                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~BRIDGES &  CONTRACT    LABOUR BASED   MAINTENANCE
MAINTENANCE       LABOUR BASED   FORCE ACCOU      CULVERTS       SUPERVISION          LINKOMAN         UNIS
TECHNICIAN     TECHNICIAN          ENGINEER       ENGINEER       ENGINEER        ENGINEER          TECHNICIAN      TECHNICIAN
NUMBER         NUMBER                             NOT ALL REGIONS WILL HAVE                        NUMBER          NUMBER
AREA BASED      AREA BASED                             FOUR TYPES OF UNITS                        AREA BASED        AREA BIASED
(t TO  UNITS)                          UNDENTAKING ROAD                                           (I TOB UNITS)
REHABILITATION
CONTRACT     -  FOREMAN                         & CONSTRUCTION                              _  CONTRACT          FOREMAN
HEADMAN                                                                                         HEADMAN
CONTRACT         FOREMAN                                                                        CONTRACT    I   FOREMAN
N EADMAN       _-HEADMAN                                                                                                                                 l



TANZANIA: INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND WORKS (MCW)
INTERCONNECTION BETWEEN THE REGIONAL ENGINEER'S OFFICE AND HEADQUARTERS
PRINCIPAL
SECRETARY
TECH NICAL      TECH ICL        ELECTR ICAL                      MACC  WER
PLANT POOL     TRUNK ROADS    RURAL ROADS                 SERVICES        SERVICES        MECHANICAL        SUPPLIES      DEVELOPMENT &         HEADQUARTERS
(ROADG)  (BUILDINGM                           A~DMINISTRATIONp
REGIONS
. ---- ------  ---------,                        ,",                         ,,     
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   REGIONAL
ENGINEER
Fi, ANCE,
TRUNK ROADS                      PLANNING       MATERIALS&A       BUILDINGS    WORKSHOPS &         STORES       ADMINISTRATION
&AERODROME| RURAL ROADS   PROGRA|M             | LA8RATORY                         FERRIES                         PERSONNE
& DESIGNPESNL
TRAINING
MANAGE?eNT RESPONSIBILITY
AND ACCOUNTABILITY LINK
TECHNICAL LINK
rt
La
--  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



- 65 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Establishment of Plant Pools
for Road Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles
Background
1.          The total fleet of road equipment and vehicles assigned to trunk and
regional roads amounts to some 700 units. Of these, about 350 units (excluding
agricultural tractors and trailers, and suppert equipment) are functioning or
repairable for road works and maintenance.   About 265 of these have been
identified for repairs, and there is an ongoing exercise to prepare a master
equipment register of all road maintenance equipment, which is available for
trunk and regional road works, and to evaluate its condition with a view to
establish its suitability for road maintenance works. Under the Sixth Highway
Project about 70 units are scheduled to be repaired in FY 1990191. with ODA-UK
funding, about 22 Aveling Barford graders and wheel loaders have been repaired
and a further 15-20 units could be included in this program. 15 Champion graders
have been identified as suitable for repairs under a CIDA funded program. NORAD,
Swiss and Irish teams are also maintaining equipment for regional and district
roads at Mbeya, Tanga and Morogoro, and KfW (FRG) maintains a force account unit
along the Mombo-Mkwmasi road.
2.          There are some 40-50 MCW and regional workshops throughout the
country, each with its own stores, but none are fully functional. Under the
Sixth Highway Project, seven zonal workshops, including the Central Workshop at
Morogoro, are being retooled and preventive maintenance practices established
in the regions. These workshops are designated to be the principal centers for
repairing MCW equipment.
3.          The present organization, management and technical capability of MCW,
considering past performance, leaves little confidence that equipment maintenance
will become efficient or that the present fleet availability of about 15-20?
will improve. All unserviceable units should be auctioned or scrapped as soon
as practical.
4.          In order to undertake effective maintenance of the 10,000 km of trunk
and 19,000 km of regional and essential rural roads under the Regional Engineer's
Offices (REOs) in mainland Tanzania, about US$15 million of new equipment and
vehicles will have to be brought into the country over the coming three years,
for primary use of MCW force account brigades and local road contractors. It
is not expected that international contractors for donor financed road
rehabilitation and upgrading works will have a demand for this equipment since
they bring their own fleet with them.



- 66 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 4
Proposed Solution for Managing Road Equipment
A.    Existing Equipment and Vehicles
5.          The seven zonal workshops are to become the principle centers of an
autonomous MCW plant pool which will be responsible for managing and maintaining
the existing road equipment and vehicles, and for charging full hire rates for
their use.   For administrative purposes,  some light vehicles and support
equipment would be allocated directly to the REOs, in accordance with their
needs.   But for the purposes of operations maintenance and repairs all MCW
equipment used for road maintenance would be under the jurisdiction and direction
of the relevant zonal workshop through the respective Regional Mechanical
Engineer. The Morogoro Central Workshop will double as a zonal workshop, as well
as provide specialized work for zonal workshops on machines transported to
Morogoro.   Zonal workshop managers will also have the authority to contract
repair work to private garages. The present system for charging REOs for repair
work will be modified to cover full hire charges. The MCW Plant Pool operation
will be monitored initially by the Task Manager (TM); but this would later be
reorganized to be an autonomous corporation whose establishment is under study.
TM will also monitor the MCW Plant Pool's ordering of spare parts through MCW's
procurement agent or directly. However, the MCW plant pool, through each zonal
workshop, will operate imprest account (amounts to be established) and the
authority to make direct purchases and to contract services.
B.    New Eauipment and Vehicles
6.          New light vehicles and small supporting equipment for REO staff will
be assigned to the REOs and maintained by them. They are not expected to come
under the MCW Plant Pool.
7.          New equipment and heavy vehicles used for road works would not be
purchased by MCW but be purchased by private companies for primary use of REOs
and local road contractors, under arrangements outlined below for creation and
functioning of private Plant Pools.
8.          An estimate will be made under the Plant Pool Study of vehicle and
equipment requirements for MCW to carry out its annual road programs. Taking
into account existing MCW and bilateral donor managed fleets, and road
contractors' equipment (registered by NCC), the Government will provide funds
from IDA under IRP (with an agreement to repay funds at an established interest
rate and time frame) for procurement of new equipment and vehicles which will
be identified under the ongoing study as needed for MCW to undertake its road
maintenance program.
9.          MCW will package the new road equipment and vehicles into one or two
lots, based on recommendations of the study. These lots will be large enough
to attract interest from international dealers and manufacturers who could
associate with established local firms to form plant pool companies (the
companies).   The conditions  for the establishment and functioning of the
companies are expected to be as follows:



- 67 -
Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 4
(a)   Companies will establish service centers at recommended locations
throughout the mainland, as well as provide supporting mobile
workshops and lubrication units to service the equipment wherever
used by REOs or contractors under hire arrangements.   Cost of
establishing the service centers would be detailed by companies in
their bids.
(b)   Companies will purchase (under IRP) a specified amount of equipment,
and will be obliged to guarantee a minimum availability for hired
equipment over a predefined period (about eight years, or a
reasonable period for amortizing the loan).
(c)   Companies will provide,  at no extra cost to the hirer for the
equipment: operators, assistants, mechanics and all support services
and parts to keep equipment running, or replace broken down units
with others within an established time frame.
(d)   MCW will indicate the number of days per year for hire of the
equipment and vehicles operated by the companies, based on planned
annual road programmes over the next decade. This information will
be provided to prequalified companies, based on the plant pool study
recommendations, which will take into account the capacity of MCW
brigades and local contractors to undertake road maintenance works,
and expected levels of annual funding from donors and the Government
budget.
(e)   Companies will determine in their bids the hire rates and price
variation formulae for each type of equipment, and percentages in
local and foreign currency (US dollars or currency of equipment
source) in which payments are to be made.
(f)   MCW will indicate facilities available at MCW workshops which could
be leased to the companies (rates and adjustment formulae to be
provided to prequalified firms).
(g)   Prequalified  companies  will  be  provided  with  a  schedule  for
repayments, over about eight years, for the cost of equipment and
initial stock of spare parts (about 5Z of equipment value), as well
as workshop equipment and service vehicles which the companies
require to be purchased with the road equipment. The amount and cost
of workshop equipment and plant pool service vehicles to support the
hire operation will be indicated in the companies' bid. Any .ther
cost in the establishment of service centers in addition to those
detailed above could also benefit from this financing.
(h)   Companies  will  have  complete  freedom,  after  fulfilling  the
requirements of MCW's road programs, to hire equipment to other
users (public and private), to replace equipment and add further
units to the plant pools, and to expand the business to lease buy-
back arrangements with the private sector.



- 68 -
Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 4
(i)   The companies will be registered as Tanzanian firms, and will have
the freedom, at any time, to include other investors in the plant
pools in accotiance with the laws of Tanzania. The companies will
be able to exchange local currency earnings into foreign currency
through the OGL system in order to run the business efficiently and
will be able to employ expatriates without constraint but with
adequate justification.
(j)   Companies will meet the hiring requirements of equipment and services
desired by HCW, and failure to meet the guaranteed availability
requirements will incur penalties to be met by the companies as
mutually agreed in the contract.
(k)   Companies will be liable to pay personal income taxes for their staff
in Tanzania in respect of their salaries and wages chargeable as per
laws and regulations of Tanzania, and the companies shall arrange
for deductions as may be imposed by such laws and regulations. The
companies are also liable to pay taxes and other charges imposed by
the Government of Tanzania for materials and supplies furnished under
the contract, as well as services performed under the contract.



- 69 -                        Annex 8-1
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROAD PROJECT
ROAD CONDITION TARGETS (Km AND X)
18egining Year     Asphalt Concrete    Surface Dressed         Crovel               Earth
I-----    ---   ---- ------------------------------------------------
I             I   Good Fair Poor    Good Fair Poor    Good Fair Poor    Good Fair Poor
--- -___      ----                         ----    ----   ----  ----   ----   --
jA. Trunk Road Network
;FY 90/91     I Km 884 289 882          622 784  1806        288  1148  1429     878  1397 2002
X    85  25  40            2080    50          10   40   60         10   87   63
IFY 91/92       Km 884 289  882         522 784 1806         286  1143 1429      878 1897 2002
I               X    85 26  40           20  30   60          10   40   50        10   40   s0
IFY 92/93     I Km 498 206  260         801 728 1083         344  1136 1398      876  1390 1991
i             5 X   62  22  28           81  28   41          12   89   49        10   37   63
IFY 93/94     I Km 651  176 128        1188 648  766         666  1129 1833      862  1801  1864
I               X   so  16 15            40  26   29          21   s8   48        10   37   63
IFY 94/95     I Km 784 159  62         2109 605  192        1912  934  790       286 1054  1610
I             | X   7717    6            756  18    7         68   26   22        10   37   53
IFY 96/98     j Km 954   0   0         2474 437    0        2457  826  436       268  990 1418
X 100    0   0           85 15       0       86   22   12         10   37   53
1B. Core Regional Road Network
I 
IFY 90/91       Km                        8  10  20         574 1721  8448       698 2094 4189
X                        10  8o  60         10   30    6o         10   80   60
IFY 91/92      Km                         8  10  20         674 1721  8448       698 2094 4189
I             1                          10 X  8060          10   80    6o        10   30   6o
'FY 92/93     I Km                       14   a  11         1119 1672  8247      688 2004  4009
j             | X                        43  28 38            19  28    63        10   30   60
5FY 93/94     I Km                       88   0   0         1951 1599  2964    1088  1771  336e
X                         100   0   0          30  26    45         17   29   54
IFY 94/96       Km                       88   0   0         2270 1571  2840    1067  1721 3261
X3                        100   0   0          34  24    42         17   29   64
IFY 95/98     I Km                       38   0   0         s31 1448  2349    1674  1358 2259
I             13                        100   0   0           49  19    32        82   28   42
IC. None-Core Regional Road Network
IFY 90/91       Km                                            832  996 1993      406  1218 2436
I                                               10   80  so          10   30  60
IFY 91/92     I Km                                            832  996 1998      406  1218 2438
1X                                              10   80  60          10   30  80
IFY 92/93     1 Km                                            832  9 96199       406  1218 2436
I             I X                                              01  30  60          10   30  60
IFY 93/94       Km                                            569  976 1907       393  1179 2658
5X                                              18   28  56          10   30  6o
IFY 94/96     I Km                                            669  976 1907       393  1179 2368
I             I                                                16   28  56         10   30  80
IFY 96/98     I Km                                            669  976 1907       393  1179 2368
I               IX                                             16   28  56         10   30  60
_______________________________________- -_ -__- -______________________________________________



- 70 -
Annex 8-2
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
GOVERNMENT WHDaET REQUIREMENTS
(UhS '600 - March 1990)
90/91    91/92    92/98    98/94    94/95   96/98
A. MAINTENANCE BUDGET REQUIREMENT
TRUNK ROADS
Routine        8,468   2,679   2,602    2,864    4,687   6,622
P-riodic       6,126   4,675   4,527   4,774    9,028   12,076
Subtotal    9,698   7,864   7,029    7,428   18,610  16,098
REGIONAL ROADS (CORE)
Routine        1,757   1,758   1,729   2,225   2,876   8,800
Periodic       8,878   8,861   8,495   4,678    5,071   7,201
_ - -- -   _- - --   _ _ -- --- _ - - - -- _
Subtotal    6,186   5,114   5,228   6,898    7,447  10,601
REGIONAL ROADS (NON-CORE)
Routine        1,848   1,251   1,282   1,386    1,866    1,886
Periodic       2,568   2,898   2,476   2,696   2,696   2,696
Subtotal   8,911   8,644   8,757   4,062   4,082    4,062
REGIONAL ROADS SUBTOTAL
Routine        8,100   8,604    8,010   8,691   8,742   4,686
Periodic       5,941   6,764   6,976   7,869   7,767   9,897
Subtotal    9,041   8,758   6,980  10,960  11,569  14,688
TOTAL MAINTENANCE
TRUNK          9,698   7,854   7,029   7,428   13,810  18,608
REGIONAL       9,641   8,758   8,980  10,960   11,5609  14,568
TOTAL     16,684  16,112  16,669  18,888  25,119  82,681
B. TOTAL BUDGET REQUIREMENT
DEVELOPMENT   11,600  15,909  21,259  14,460   4,222           0
RECURRENT     18,684   16,112  16,009  18,888   26,119  82,661
Subtotal  29,684  81,921  87,268  82,886  29,841  82,881
C. MAINTENANCE BUDGET SUPPORT PLAN
BUDGET REQUIREMENT
TOTAL          18,684   16,112  16,009   18,888  25,119   82,661
S CONTRIBUTION     40       5t       6o      75       86      166
Subtotal   7,464   8,056   9,605  l,791   21,861   82,661
DONOR CONTRIBUTION  11,180   8,066   8,404   4,697    8,768         6
D.  PROPOSED GOVERNMENT ROAD BUDGET
DEVELOPMENT    11,000  15,809  21,259  14,460   4,222           0
RECURRENT       7,464   8,066    9,605  13,791  21,861  32,661
TOTAL     18,464  28,866  80,864  28,241   26,578  32,661



- 71 -                                                       Annex 4-1
TANZANIA
INT, SIATSD ROADS . aOJZCT
Sunmary of Technical Assistance (T.A.)
|acriptien of T.A.    Donor. T.A. Requirement                        I|l_entatien Period                           Wnin Government
|  c it,  It4t   |  OOIFV90/91 IP"1/92 JFVQ2/9a 1FY93/94 JFY94/9             Aaaocieates
IMC headesuart r                                            |         |        |          
ICODw                      DA       Eno. Account      0   e-1l        I        I        I         I---------11 Coord.. 2 Prof.. Account       I
iTrsnan. A Opor. Planneng  MA 1 Eng, A Econ. I aps 8o         I       |        1 I---I---       --------I, t En.e  Plan * Econ, 4 Tr. Opa- I
|Contract- Admin.          AfDF    2 Special lots    70                                                      I |   |   I  |  1 Lawyer. 4 Ing. 2 Proc Office,al
1lCi Management            DA       Vrtiu            60    |1- -I-                      -------|-------1  2 flnagaaent Systema Officers
Rod Inactoatee            IDA      1 H;int. En.    40        I                                                     ----|--- ID   2 RRD * 2 TFD Eng.
I                          MA       2 Rood Inapect.  50    i    I    |              I---I-n--- -----1|I2Engineers
[Rural Roads               ISAID    Contract.        s      |         |              I  |         |         2 Engineer*
I  AD    Labor-baoad      S6          I                                          I  W I I   | 1R Eno and RREn
liquipment Hanaelet        WA  8 Plant Specialista  40          II-|-I   I              I         I          1 Mach. Eng, 1 Store.. 1 Fin.
I                          WA  t mte   echanics 260  aee|---                                                 1 I   I    I  |  I loMechanic 
|Central Laboratory        tlDA-                     as               I            I-|------|------I a Mater;al  Enginears
or                                                        I         I         I        I        I        I                                  I
Il6onza & Shinyanga        WA       6 Specialista   220    |          I |        |         |----i I        | 12 profaaaional staff
Iogere                    LWP       8 Spaceali;ta   110    |         |    |    |                              6 professional staff
jTangea A Ib.ya            NR                       220                                   - - I    I--|--   I  | 12 profesional staff
IKilimanjaro               QTZ-FR                   110      I        I                                    I 1 I---iI  6 prof.aional staff
lIrings A Ruvum            CDA-U                    220      I       I         I        I I---_-I          | 12 profaaional ataff
|Lindi A Htwra            FPINMA                    220                                 I  -                 12 professional staff
jMeroeore                  Swias/Iraland            110               1                                    I 6 profasional *taff
INN Trainina                                                I          I                I         I        I
IMPTS                      DA   1 Huan Re. Spec. 24  *ee              |                 I         I        I 2 MHean Ra urcee Specialiatas
IMCTI                      MA   Various Inatructora 24    | ---|-----|-----|-1I|-| 4 ICTI Instructor. 
IContrect Managaent        DA 2 Eno,  IIS  1 H. Eng 90  eeIe **Iee e ll-|              11        1         | 2 Eng., 1 (.S.. I Mach. Eng.
ILabor-baed Worka          WIP/IL   Trng. SpaCe.   sO    I         I        I                I                a-----------12Lbor-Basd Engineara
Research                   71w%      1 Specialist   S8    11          1        1        1    1   1          2 Reaarchers
IVonational Institutes
IlWSi Engin-ering Faculty  DTZ-0  8 Specialiato    61                                                       3 I  I    I   I  I 8 Teaching Staff
INIT                       IDA      Tw inning        12                            1                          T__I__-hII    I  6 Teaching Staff  I
lArusha Tech.              a-RzO  Specialist         8s               |                 i    I   I         I 4 Teaching Staff
IRoad Safk                 N RA0    2 Specialist&   so    jI-II   I            1        I         I         2 Traf. 0ff. 1 Eng. 1 Trp. Off.
|Procurement Reoulations   WA       special ate     190                                  -- - ---           NW. CT8, AM A MOF Stff
ITraneort Agencie-                                          I         I        I        I         I        I
INTC A RETCD.              IDA     19 Specialist&   500  0     eeeI-j--1 |     I|        I       I         I 18 Hch. A Accocntants. 1 Econ.
|UDA                       mA       to b  decided    60    I            I- - -   I    I                    | To Bo Dacided
IATC                       WA       4Specialiats  -J        i  I      I        I        I I      I         | 6Accountants . Triners 
8277    1                  I         I        I        I  Systems Analyst* + Marketing
00  SIxth Highway Projoet                            I t    fi               part t     I         I        Ime
*en  Siuth Highway Project                       full ti_s        -----  pert time



- 72 -                         Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 7
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
WORK FORCE DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING COMPONENT
1.      As part of the overall project objective of strengthening the various
institutions within the roads sector, a number of project subcomponents will be
implemented to achieve measurable increases in work force productivity through
improvements in manpower planning, personnel management, work force supervision,
and occupational training at all levels o.Z employment.  In addition, greater
accountability and management of technical assistance will be an integral part
of all project operations to ensure a measurable transfer of expertise and
nationalization of key job positions within the sector.  It is expected that
these efforts will be reinforced by changes in Government policies that will
encourage greater worker motivation and commitment through improved incentive
and reward systems for public employees and the increasing use of private
contractors to carry out road maintenance works.
2.      Support to the MCW Manpower Planning and Training Section.  As part of
the Institutional support under the 6tkh Highway Project, Technical Assistance
was provided for the MPT section including a TA Training Adviser (44 m-m),
overseas training for the Counterpart Head of Manpower Planning and Training
Section (HMPT), and provision of computing and office equipment for personnel
data base management.  Support to MPTS will be continued under the proposed
Integrated Roads Project (IRP) as follows:
a.   Technical Assistance.   The services of a manpower development and
training specialist will be needed to finish tasks begun under the 6th
Highway Project including: (i) ccmpletion and continued updating of the
MCW manpower inventory; (ii) establishment of improved personnel
management and training policies; (iii) est._blishment and implementation
of annual training programs; and (iv) coordination of training activities
carried out by TA specialists assigned to other project components (as
part of terms of reference shown in the Project Working Papers -
Attachment 3). Working closely with the HMPT, this assistance will be
provided (totaling 24 mm) over a period of four years according to terms
of reference as shown in the Project Working Papers - Attachment 4.
Total cost of this component will be US$288,00O.
b.   In-Country Seminars and Workshops.  As a continuation of the training
activities begun under the 6th Highway Project, the IRP will provide
financing for a variety of management and technical subject seminars and
workshops for MCW, REO's, NCC, NTC and private contractor personnel.
Incorporated into MCW's annual training program, these activities will
be conducted in-house and at institutions such as ESAMI, UDSM, and NIT.
Present estimates call for approximately 12 senior level seminars and
24 mid-level workshops during the life of the project at a cost of
US$480,000.
c.   Overseas Training and Study Tours.  MCW receives extensive support for
overseas training from a large group of donors. To avoid duplication



- 73 -                           Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 7
of effort and the misapplication of training grants, all overseas
training will be coordinated by MPTS through its annual training program.
To supplement training grants from other donors, the project will finance
short-term training and study tours for MCW, REO, NCC, and NTC personnel
according to the criteria shown in the Project Working Papers -
Attachment 5.  These criteria will ensure the relevance of overseas
training to institutional objectives, equitable selection of candidates,
and measurable return on the training investment both for the employee
and the employer. Emphasis will be placed upon practical work-oriented
training exercises with organizations involved in actual road and
equipment maintenance operations rather than &ttending theoretical
courses at academic institutions. While costs will vary for different
activities, an average cost per course/tour has been calculated at
US$6,000 bringing the total for 120 persons to US$920,000.
3.      Support to MCTI.   Under the 6th Highway Project, MCTI has received
technical assistance (continued from the 5th Highway Project) and funding for
training equipment in order to improve road maintenance training operations.
Although measurable improvements began to show during 1989, the Institute is
still a long way from reaching acceptable levels of efficiency. 1/   While 630
employees were targeted for training during the past two years, only 214 (34z)
actually received training due to budgetary shortfalls, shortage of lodging and
catering facilities, and indifference on the part of managers and employees in
responding to course offerings. The most notable progress made during the 6th
Highway Project includes the recruitment of Tanzanian instructors, improvements
in facilities and equipment, further development of the training program,
establishment of a workshop annex, and the final stages of planning for mobile
training units.
4.      Work force analysis and manpower planning carried out by MPTS under the
6th Highway Project indicates a need to increase MCTI training outputs to
approximdtely 1200 employees per year by 1995. The present maximum capacity
is about 900 x 45 days trainee/places per year.   Given that the center is
operating at about 11? of capacity, attempts to achieve the goal will require
extensive improvements in management performance and of the Institute, and
acceptance of the need for this kind of training by employers. For this reason,
the project focus on achieving 10O capacity utilization of the present
facilities before any attempts at further expansion is recommended. As part of
this effort, and in conjunction with the objectives of the road maintenance
program, MCTI will provide training to other government organizations, as well
~as to contractors and workers from the private sector. The project will support
MCTI in the following areas:
a.   Technical Assistance.  The services of a training specialist will be
required to finish the tasks carried out under the 6th Highway Project.
As shown in the Project Working Papers -At.`achment 6, these tasks will
include: (i) course material development; (ii) increases and improvements
1/ Not counting the costs of technical assistance, the average unit costs
per trainee are roughly 100,000 Tsh (US$650). If MCTI were operating at
near full capacity, these ccsts would be reduced to about 16,000 Tsh
(US$110) per trainee.



- 7                             Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 7
in practical job-oriented instruction; (iii) job description and trade
testing standards; (iv) facility and equipment planning, (v) staff
training;   (vi)   establishment   of  mobile   training  units;   and
(vii) establishment of an Equipment Operators/Drivers Training Programme.
Working closely with the administration and faculty of MCTI, and under
the coordination of MPTS, the training specialist inputs (totaling 24
man/months) will comprise a one-year advisory by a Mechanical Engineer
followed by a series of short advisory visits spread over the following
three-year period. Every effort will be made to ensure that the Center 's
training operations will be completely nationalized by the end of the
project. The cost of this component will be US$288,000.
b.   Training Facilities.  While the last three projects 'Highways 4,5, and
6) have provided technical assistance to strengthen MCTI, only minor
investments have been made in improving tile .hysical aspects of training
operations (primarily the procurement of -raining aids and equipment).
Although the Center has been grossly underutilized, if it is to
effectively handle the full capacity enrollment (600 trainees) and to
provide the quality of practical instruction needed to achieve project
objectives, it will be necessary to carry out some rehabilitation and
minor expansion of: (i) the mechanical workshop; (ii) the electrical
workshop; (iii) the material testing lab; (iv) two classrooms; (v)
trainee hostels; (vi) catering facilities; and (qii) faculty living
quarters. The cost of this component is estimated at US$275,000.
C.  Training Equipment.  As noted above, some training equipment has been
acquired under the previous highway projects, but is still insufficient
to conduct all of the practical instruction incorporated into the revised
training program. For this reason, it is proposed to purchase additional
training aids and equipment for: (i) the mechanical workshop; (ii) the
electrical workshop; (iii) the material testing lab; and (iv) the
catering (kitchen) facilities, five mobile training units comprising
tents, cooking equipment, training aids, and light transport vehicles
to permit extended training operations in the field. In addition, the
project will finance the acquisition of equipment for the establishment
of a equipment operator/driver training programme.  The cost of this
component is estimated at US$1,190,000.
d.   Instructor and Trainee Allowances.  One of the major problems in running
the MCTI program has been the lack of incentives to attract instructors
and trainees to the Center. In general, employees are not motivated to
participate in training activities when they incur loss of extra income
(from overtime and outside work activities) and additional living
expenses while at Morogoro. In parallel with locsl management reluctance
to lose key workers for periods of time, this factor h-s been
instrumental in keeping trainee enrollment figures well below full
capacity, and in getting MCW higher level staff to serve as adjunct
instructors in their areas of expertise.   Because MCW is unable to
allocate sufficient funds for trainee allowances, the project will
finance a training allowance budget for a five-year period to create the
necessary motivational momentum for the I4CTI program. This component



- 75 -                         Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 7
will cost US$125,000 and will be graduated downward 2/ so that MCW will
be funding this budget item by the end of the five-year period.
5.      Support to NIT.  Although NIT had received some technical assistance
under the Trucking Industry Rehabilitation Project, there has been little outside
support to the institution during the past several years.  As a result, the
quality of training outputs has remained at a low level due to deteriorating
facilities, underqualified instructors, lack of equipment, and insufficient
operating budgets. In addition to serious deficiencies in practical training
capability, with an instructor/student ratio of less than 1:5 and a total
personnel/student ratio of 1:1, unit costs of training are highly excessive and
could be reduced considerably through better management of existing resources.
Following an evaluation of NIT operations 3/ carried out by local consultants,
a proposal has been made to strengthen NIT by improving both the quality and cost
effectiveness of its training operations in the following areas:
a.   Staff Training. One of the major weaknesses in NIT's training capability
is the lack of practical experience among the faculty.   Because NIT
salaries are not competitive with the private sector, it has great
difficulty in attracting instructors with suitable qualifications. In
many cases, instructors are recruited from among former students who lack
the practical knowledge and skills required for the job. To address this
problem, a staff training program will be financed under the project with
the objective of upgrading job skills in their respective areas of
instruction. This program will encompass local in-plant training, short-
term work attachments with appropriate enterprises outside the country,
and in-house training conducted by technical assistance (see below).
This component will cost US$750,000 and will be implemented during the
first three years of the project according to a staff development plan
prepared by NIT management.
b.   Technical Assistance.   In order to improve the efficiency of NIT
operations and the relevance of instruction to employer needs, NIT will
require outside assistance in school administration, curriculum
modification, and modern teaching methodology. To accomplish this, NIT
will seek a technical cooperation arrangement with a similar training
institution having an ebtablished reputation for quality training
services. Under this arrangement, the partner institution will provide
administrative and subject matter experts as needed over a three-year
period. The agreement will permit an exchange of personnel between the
two institutions on a periodic and "as needed" basis according to the
draft terms of reference shown in the Project Working Papers - Attachment
7.  Estimating about 30 to 40 short-term exchange visits between NIT
staff and the host institution, the cost of this component is US$150,000.
c.   Training Facilities.  A major factor affecting the quality of practical
instruction is the poor condition and limited available space in the
training and service workshops. Presently, average workshop space is
1 100?, 802, 60?, 40?, 20? respectively for each of the five years.
3/ Financed under the 6th Highway Project.
4                                     4



Annex 4-2
Page 5 of 7
only 1.2 m2 per student which is unsafe and insufficient to meet normal
workshop requirements. NIT has prepared a rehabilitation and expansion
plan that would maximize existing space and add 165 m2 to the present
workshop building bringing available space to 2 m2 per student. This
component will cost US$400,000.
d.   Training Equipment.  Lack of training equipment coupled with instructor
inexperience has resulted in a heavy emphasis on theoretical instruction
which has not been effective in producing occupationally qualified
graduates. 4/ As part of an integrated effort to correct this situation,
the project will finance the procurement of training aids and equipment
to bring all workshop areas up to the required standards of the program.
In addition, two mini-buses and a light truck will be procured for the
transportation of students to field work sites. This component will cost
US$200,000.
6.      Labor-Based Works Training.  In an effort to increase employment, reduce
road maintenance costs and to compensate for endemic shortages of equipment and
spare parts, the Government has established labor-based road maintenance (LBRH)
operations in Mbeya and Tanga regions on a pilot basis.  Funded by UNDP and
implemented by ILO, these operations are proving to be successful in developing
local capability in road maintenance works. In coordination with MPTS and the
NCC Training Section, this pilot program will be expanded to include LBRM within
the Core Regional Roads Program (CRRP).  The present proposal calls for the
training and deployment of 10 to 15 local contractors in the Kilimanjaro region
during the period 1990 - 1995 with the following inputs:
a.   Technical Assistance.  Two full-time LBRM implementation and training
specialists will be required for the first three years of the exercise
with follow-up visits during the remaining two years (totaling 80
man/months). Working with local counterparts, the specialists will: (i)
develop training methods and materials for road rehabilitation works
(versus road maintenance) including technical, managerial, and
contractual aspects of the subject; (ii) train future trainers of LbRM
methods; and (iii) conduct training activities according to the terms
of reference shown in Attachment 6. The success of this component will
be measured by the ability of local staff to assume full responsibility
for LBRM implementation and training functions by the time of the
specialists' departure.   The cost of this component is estimated at
US$1,260,000.
b.   Training and Support Equipment.   Equipment needed for actual road
rehabilitation activities (i.e. tools, wheelbarrows, carts, etc.) will
be provided for the training program through the CRRP. Training aids
and administrative support equipment (i.e. office machines, audio-visual
aids, manuals, etc.) will however, be provided under the training
component.   In addition,  four light vehicles will be provided for
4/ Roughly 17Z of the three year curriculum calls for practical
instruction yet even this small percentage is not realized in actual
practice. Tc produce employable graduates, NIT must achieve a 402 to 602
ratio of theoretical to practical instruction.



- 77                            Annex 4-2
Page 6 of 7
transport of personnel, tools, and equipment to the'various job sites.
The cost of this component is estimated at US$350,000.
c.   Operating Costs.  In order to reduce the risk of operational delays due
to budgetary shortfalls, the project will also finance local
administrative and operating costs including local salaries, office
supplies, fuel, building and vehicle maintenance, local travel, and
miscellaneous training expenses. These costs will be covered 1002 during
the first two years of the project and will be graduated downwards by
33Z each year for the remaining three years so that MCW can adjust its
future budgetary planning to cover LBRM training bevond the life of the
project. The cost of this component is estimated at US$200,000.
7.      Support to NCC.   Under the 6th Highway Project,  90 man/months of
technical assistance was provided to strengthen the delivery of training services
to the construction industry.   In addition, financing was provided for the
acquisition of training equipment, vehicles, and training for NCC personnel.
After experiencing start-up delays, the contractor training progzam has been
progressing with the execution of various courses in contract management and
implementation. Although it was intended to follow-up the training exercises
with the award of contracts (to successful bidders), this has yet to occur due
to delays on the part of Government.   If the strategy of developing the
construction industry is to be successful, it is essential that this matter be
resolved before the proposed project is implemented.
8.      Assuming the resolution of the contract awards issue, the proposed                 H
project will provide continued support to NCC for the development and
implementation of the contractor training program. This support will primarily
focus on the continuation of a Construction Management Training Specialist and
a Road Construction Training Specialist for a period of two years followed by
periodic follow-up visits through 1994 for a total of 60 man/months. The primary
objective of this TA continuation will be to ensure the successful training and
award of contracts to 15 local contractors by the end of 1994. The success of
this activity will also be measured by NCC's ability to carry out similar
activities with its own personnel. The cost of this component is estimated at
US$1,080,000.
9.      Support to UDSM.  Based upon engineering manpower projections carried
out by MPTS under the 6th Highway Project, it has been estimated that UDSM would
need to increase its civil engineering graduate outputs from 60 to 80 per year
in order to provide sufficient numbers of qualified professionals for the roads
sector.  GTZ has offered to provide assistance to UDSM FOE in the following
areas:
a.   Technical Assistance.  A short-term expert (3 m-m) to contribute to the
ongoing curricitlum revision in the field of Road Engineering.
Furthermore, experts for counterpart training and teaching (48 m-m).
The cost of this component is estimated at US$730,000.
b.   Buildings.    Soils  laboratory  building,  road materials  laboratory
building, computer laboratory building and two classrooms. The cost of
this component is estimated at US$230,000.



- 78 -                         Annex 4-2
Page 7 of 7
I.
c.   Equipment.   Soils laboratory equipment,  roads materials laboratory
equipment, surveying equipment, teaching aids (including computer
equipment) and textbooks. The cost of this component is estimated at
US$340,000.
d.   Staff Training: Overseas fellowship training and study tours for faculty
staff. The cost of this component is estimated at US$200,000.
10.          Support to Arusha Technical College (TCA).   One of the major
bottlenecks in appropriate staffing of the roads sec*-or is the shortage of
educated technicians.   Under the 6th Highway Project,  a Full Technician
Certificate (FTC) Highway Technician course was established at Dar es Salaam
Technical College. The GTZ has agreed to establish a similar track at TCA. The
number of FTC highway technicians to be educated annually will be 25.  The
assistance will be provided in the following areas:
a.   Technical Assistance.  A short-term expert (3 m-m) to contribute to the
ongoing curriculum revision in the field of Road Engineering.
Furthermore, an expert for counterpart trait ng and teaching (36 m-m).
The cost of this component is estimated at US$510,000.
b.   Buildings.  Soils laboratory building, two classrooms, staff housing and
storage area. The cost of this component is estimated at US$315,000.
c.   Equipment.  Soils laboratory equipment, bitumen laboratory equipment,
surveying equipment, camping equipment, teaching aids and vehicles. The
cost of this component is estimated at US$240,000.
d.   Staff Training. Overseas fellowship training and study tours for faculty
staff. The cost of this component is estimated at US$130,000.
*0



- 80 -
Annex 4-2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TRANSFER OF EXPERTISE GUIDELINES
1.        Introduction.
The primary reason for employing technical assistance (TA)
personnel is to compensate for gaps or shortages in expertise to achieve
project objectives.   To ensure project sustainability, institutional and
local personnel performance improvement and, therefore, effectiveness of TA,
it is essential that the expertise brought in by the TA is systematically
transferred and imparted to the local associate personnel during the day-to-
day operations of project implementation involving the TA. This, in turn,
requires a well-defined, executed and monitored/evaluated TA component with
all involved (i.e. TA personnel, local associate personnel, supervisors and
sponsors/donors) having the same understanding and appreciation of the role
and responsibilities of all the main players, particularly the TA and local
associate personnel. Therefore, the TA components need to be well-designed
to ensure that the Terms of Reference adequately cover the aforementioned
elements necessary to ensure effectiveness of TA. To assist in such design
of TA components in the Integrated Roads Project (IRP), the following
guidelines are presented.
2.        Objectives.
(a)  Global Obiectives of TA.  TA is generally employed to provide the
local associate and institution personnel with new or improved
systems and methodologies to enable improved and efficient
performance during and after the time of TA. Thus the general role
of TA personnel is to:
(i)     develop   efficient   and  effective  management   and
information/reporting   systems   for   execution   of
responsibilities of the institution or department at
which the TA is employed;
(ii)     impart  to  the  local  associates  new  or  improved
methodologies;
(iii)     put into operation the new or improved methodologies and
management and information/reporting systems and obtain
desired results. This should be done in such a way that
the local associates are fully involved and are, before
the end of the TA engagement, able to continue the
application of the systems and methodologies.
(b)  Terms of Reference.  Terms of Reference specific to the area of
requirement of TA must be prepared and agreed by the contracting
parties before the engagement of the TA personnel. In addition to
clearly defining the specific responsibilities of the concerned
institutions/departments as well as TA and local personnel, the



- 81 -                        Annex 4-2
Attachment 1
xPae 2 of 4
Terms of Reference must fulfill the global objectives of TA as
described in paragraph 2 (a) above.
3.        Implementation of TA Programme.
Transfer of expertise from TA personnel to local associates is best
achieved through a team work or participatory approach in which the TA
personnel work closely with and through the local associate personnel to
implement or accomplish the different specific tasks.   It is therefore
important to ensure that the TA personnel and local associates are able to
actually work together. In order to make sure that this is so, the following
implementation guidelines are provided to be used for TA programmes.
(a) Local associates. Each TA expert should be assigned to work with
and tLrough one or more local associates. The associates assigned
to work with the TA expert should have basic knowledge and capacity
to understand and absorb the expertise made available by the TA
personnel. These local associates mtst be assigned and made aware
of their roles prior to the arrival of the TA expert.   The
designated local associates should be available at all times during
the TA programme. However, in cases where personnel reassignment
is necessary (for example, important transfers or necessary study
leaves), it is necessary to ensure that the local associate
personnel situation is maintained at a level that is required to
enable achievement of the projected results as defined in the terms
of reference.
(b) The TA experts. Prior to engagement, the TA experts must be given
the terms of reference and show clear understanding and
interpretation of the terms of reference, particularly regarding
roles and responsibilities, working relationships, reporting and
accountability.  In this regard, the TA experts should have the
same understanding and interpretation of the terms of reference as
the employers.
(c)  Phasing out of TA personnel.  It is imperative that all parties
agree to a program of gradual phasing out of TA responsibility.
Too often, TA contracts are geored to a time frame such as two or
three years, without any substantive provision for target dates for
full assumption of job responsibilities by local staff.
(d)  Operational  guidelines.    In  order  to  facilitate  continuous
assessment of the performance of the TA program, the following
operational actions need to be taken:
Ci)     Immediately upon arrival to the project, each TA expert
should prepare:
-    a list of specific tasks that are required to carry out
the job assignment as generally defined by the terms of
reference-,
-    a detailed work plan or action program (with monthly or
weekly activities) to implement tasks, and specifying
4



- 82 -                         Annex 4-2
Attachment 1
*                                        ,*age 3 of 4
dates of completion of the tasks and the outputs thereof;
and
-    a description of the roles of the local associates vis-
a-vis those of the TA expert in carrying out .he
specified tasks. The TA expert should also indicate how
he/she intends to work with the local associates to
implement the work plan.
(ii)     The list of tasks and the associated plan of action
should be reviewed and approved by the Supervisor of the
particular TA program. This supervisor will normally be
the Head of the department or institution receiving the
TA, and will supervise both the TA expert and the local
associates.
(iii)     The list of tasks and the plan of action may be modified
from time to time in accordance with changes in the
demands and the working environment, but they should
always provide opportunities for attaining realistic
progress in the transfer of expertise.
4.        Evaluation
As noted above, a program of transfer of expertise by the TA expert
must be clearly defined.  This transfer of expertise shall be given equal
consideration along with technical and professional factors in evaluating the
performance of each TA expert.   In order to facilitate the necessary
evaluation, the 'llowing actions will need to be taken.
(a)  periodic progress reports (monthly/quarterly) will be prepared by
TA experts to indicate:
(i) status of implementation of the specific tasks;
(ii) results or outputs in accordance with the work plan;
(iii)role of personnel (TA experts and local associates) in
carrying out specific tasks;
(iv) ability of the local associates to perform job tasks
efficiently and without supervision of the TA experts;
(v) specific expertise imparted and the level at which it was
understood by the local associate;
(vi) specific   problems   or   experiences   relevant   to   the
implementation of the work plan.
(b) The supervisor will review the reports, verify contents and take
necessary actions, including measures to improve or consolidate the
working relationships between the TA expert and local associates.
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 83 -                         Annex 4-2
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
(c) The supervisor will transmit to higher management the TA expert5s
report and his comments regarding progress of implementation of the
TA pregram.
(d) Higher management will issue a brief annual evaluation of each TA
expert's performance which will be sent to the respective funding
agency and the parent company/agency of the expert.
. ~~ :                          4



- 84 -                          Annex 4-3
*     , s * w  Page 1 of 9
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Interim Procurement Regulations - Key Features
Scope
1.          Whereas  it  is  expedient  to  have  procedures  for  purchasing,
contracting for works and the engagement of consultants under the Integrated
Roads Project, the Ministry of Finance hereby lays down the following
Regulations. The objective of these regulations is to provide guidance to the
Ministry of Communications and Works on the policies applicable to procurement
of works, goods and services.
2.          These regulations shall be called "Regulations of Ministry of Finance
to MCW on purchasing, contracting for works and engagement of consultants, under
the Integrated Roads Project.
3.          The Principal Secretary MCW shall, on behalf of the Ministry of
Finance, be in charge of these regulations in as far as implementation within
the Ministry of Communications ard Works.
Application
4.          These regulations shall apply to:-
(a)   Government  agencies  entering  into  transactions  in purchasing,
contracting for works and engagement of consultants.
(b)   in purchasing, contracting for works and employment of consultants,
the local products and materials, Tanzanian enterprises or Tanzanian
consultants, as the case may be, shall be encouraged, except where
the guidelines and conditions set by the funding sources provide
otherwise.
(c)   the head of a Ministry's department shall be authorized to act under
these regulations in the capacity of the head of a government agency,
and shall refer to his superior office such cases which are beyond
his authority.
(d)   Persons authorized to act under these regulations may delegaL -heir
authority in writing, to persons holding any position provides. that,
positions, duties and responsibilities of persons so empowered, are
the primary consideration.
Purchasing and contracting for works procedure:
5.          Purchasing or contracting for works may be conducted in any of the
following methods:-
(a)   direct contracting



- 85 -                           Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 9
(b)   competitive bidding
6.          The method  of purchasing or  contracting  for works  by direct
contracting method shall apply in the case of a single contract of not more than
US$ 500,000 or within the amount provided by the loan/credit/grant agreement.
7.          The methed of purchasing or contracting for works by competitive
bidding shall apply in the case of a single contract of more than US$ 500,000
or within the amount provided by the loan/credit/grant agreement.
8.          Provided that the purchasing or contracting for works shall not be
divided in order to make the amount of money lower than that prescribed in any
other method.
Direct contracting
9.          In the purchasing or contracting for works by direct contracting
method the responsible office shall negotiate and agree on the price with the
supplier or contractor and proceed with the purchasing or contracting within the
budget (money) limits as approved by the head of the govern-sent agency under para
6 herein.
Competitive bidding method
10.         Purchasing or contracting for works in the case of local competitive
bidding the head of the government agency concerned shall, not less than 30 days
before the closing date of sealed bids, put up a notice inviting the sealed bids
at conspicuous place in the office of such government agency and shall give
announcement thereof in mass media. If considered proper, copies of the notice
may be sent directly to the professional supplier or contractors, or may also
be advertised by other means.  In the case of the international competitive
bidding, the government agency concerned shall follow the guidelines set up and
agreed by the loan/grant source.
11.         Bid documents shall be made in accordance with the standard bidding
(tender) documents attached to these Regulations.   In case where the said
documents :sre inapplicable, the bid documents shall at least contain the
following:
(a)   The details,  specifications and quantities of materials  to be
purchases or wor-C(s) to be contracted;
(b)   The qualifications of the bidders (tenders) who must professionally
be in the business of supplying the materials required or carrying
out the works(s) required under (a) above and must not be a person
enjoying a privilege or immunity who may refuse to be under
jurisdiction of the Tanzania court, except where the government of
such a person has ordered such privilege of immunity waived;
(C)   Stipulations  governing  evidence which  bidder must  present  in
connection with their qualifications under (b) above and evidence
which certifies the bidders' authorized signatire;
(d)   Place, date, and time for the acceptance of bids and the closing date
thereof, and for the opening of the bids;



- 86 -                          Annex 4-3
Page 3 of 9
(e)   The amount of money fixed for the bid security, the place where the
bid security will be received, and there shall be conditions that
if the bidder should withdraw his bid or fail to enter into an
agreement or contract with the government agency within the time
specified, or fail to provide the performance security, the
government agency will confiscate the bid security or lodge a claim
with the guaranteeing bank or insurance. The government agency also
reserves the right to hold the person failing to enter into the
contract with the agency to have abandoned work(s).
(f)   Percentage of advance payment (if any);
(g)   Stipulations regarding the performance security to be submitted by
the successful bidder;
(h)   Tender form(s);
(i)   Validity period of the bid price and bid bond of necessary length
to the government agency;
{i)   Tender price shall be given in figures and letters, in the case the
prices given in figures are different, the ones in letters shall
prevail;
(Ik)   Instruction on the bid price that the tender shall be on a fixed
basis or price with adjustment.   In case the bid is on a price
adjustment basis, a formula for price adjustment shall also be
specified;
(1)   Stipulations on the place and time of delivery of the materials or
completion date of work(s) and the rate of penalty thereof;
(m)   In case of necessity, for the purchasing of the materials, the bidder
shall be required to forward samples, catalogues or drawings and
details with the bid;
(n)   For materials purchasing, should a testing be considered necessary,
adequate number of samples shall be stipulated for the testing as
well as for attachment to the contract to be executed. Provided,
however, that there shall be a further stipulation that the
Government agency shall not be held responsible for an) damage caused
to the samples forwarded for testing;
(o)   For materials purchasing, details of tests to be carried out at the
factory before shipment and at the site after installation, if
applicable;
(p)   For contracting for works, conditions of inspection and acceptance
of the contracted works.
(q)   Necessary criteria for the comparison of bids with due consideration
to the advantages and disadvantages regarding the costs of
operations, durable life, maintenance, complexity in acquiring spare
parts and services and period of delivery which shall be calculated
in terms of money;



-87-                             Annex 4-3
Page 4 of 9
(r)   Currency or currencies in which bidltender prices should be stated,
the rate of exchange to be used in comparison of tenders, if any,
shall be based on the Tshs selling rate as published by the Bank of
Tanzania thirty (30) days before the last day of tender submission;
(s)   Reservation(s) that the purchaser or employer has 'he right not to
purchase or employ, or to purchase or employ, without having always
to purchase or employ from the lowest bidder;
(t)   Source of funds and eligible source countries;
(u)   Form of contract.
(v)   Provision for works contractors to post bonds to cover import duties
and taxes for imported construction equipment; the bonds to be cashed
in full if the equipment remains in Tanzania after completion of the
contract, or a prorated amount cashed, based on depreciation of
equipment, if exported after completion of the contract.
(w)   Provision for contractors to receive payments in foreign exchange,
or guarantees of access to foreign exchange, for imported goods,
materials and services needed to carry out the contract, as
demonstrated by the contractor.
(x)   Provision for contractors to pay labour rates based on the open
market supply, but not restricted to minimum rates.
12.         In any bidding, if there is no bidder submitting the bid, the head
of government agency shall be urged to cancel that bidding in order to have a
new bidding. In case there is only one bidder, or there are several bidders but
only one of them submits properly in accordance with the details and conditions
stipulated in the bid documents, the normal bid evaluation proceedings will
apply. If the price is considered appropriate, the head of the government agency
shall act in accordance with paragraph 18, so that an order may be placed with
the bidder.  But, if the head of the agency considers it inappropriate, that
particular bidding shall be cancelled in order that a new bidding may be called
or the purchasing or contracting for works by other method may be applied.
13.         After the bidding, out a notice on purchasing or contracting for
works has not been awarded to any bidder, if it is imperative to alter the
essential details or conditions contained in the bid documents for the ultimate
benefit of the government, the head of the government agency concerned shall
request the authorities, who are vested with the power to place order, to cancel
that particular bidding.  If there is a new bidding, the former bidders have the
right to receive the new drawings and details (if any) from the agency concerned
free of charge.
14.         Cancellation of any bidding is the authority of the head of the
agency, except where the loan/creditlgrant agreement shall stipulate otherwise.
15.         For any contracted work which the head of the government agency
considers necessary to have a supervisor specifically or in case the work
inspection committee reports its inability to closely supervise the work, a
government official under jurisdiction of the government agency whom the head
of the agency considers suitable, or an official of the department responsible
for works or the unit or body which is responsible for the design work of the



- 88 -                          Annex 4-3
Page 5 of 9
contract and whose head of government agency has consernted thereto, or a
con.ultant to be employed, shall be appointed as a supervisor.
16.         Any contracted works whereby the government agency deems it necessary
to engage the services of a consultant as supervisor the consultant may also be
charged with duties of the work inspection committee.   The services of a
consultant as supervisor, the consultant may also be charged with the duties of
the works inspection committee.
17.         In the evetnt that the consultant is assigned with duties of the work
inspection committee, the head of the government agency shall appoint at least
two government officials of high qualifications and professicnal experience to
oversee the consultant's performance and shall report the same to the head of
the government's agency.
Authority to place order or to award a contract
18.         Except by special method and special cases that may be directed by
the government, the authority to place order or to award contract shall be that
of the persons holding tile following positions,  and within the following
purchasing power limit:
Authorization                  Category            Limit
Regional Tender Boards (RTBs) works              l.Om TJS$
(with Regional Engineers as   goods              0.5m  US$
Secretaries to RTBs)           consultancy       0.25m USS
National Committee            works              5.Om  US$
(with Principal Secretary     goods              3.Om  US$
MCW es Chairman)               consultancy       l.Om  US$
Central Tender Board - All levels above the National Committee authorization.
19.         No advance paynent may be made to the supplier contractor, except
otherwise specified in the contract and the head of the government agency
considers necessary where rayment may be made as part of the cost of the
materials or the work as follows:
(a)   Not more than 25 percent of the contract value may be paid in case
of purchasing from or contracting with a government agency,
government body established under the law on local administration,
other units set up by the law with the status of local administration
or state enterprises;
(b)   In a direct purchasing of the materials where the contract value is
not more than US$200,000, and a draft has to be sent to the supplier
directly, full payment of the materials purchased may be made.
Purchases exceeding US$200,000 must have prior approval of the
Principal Secretary MCW.
20.         The following cases are not regarded as advance payments:
(a)   payment made to the supplier or contractor in accordance with the
international trading practice by issuing the letter of credit or



- 89 -                           Annex 4-3
Page 6 of 9
draft; pursuant to the payment clause provided for in the contract;
(b)   payr.ent to the supplier in accordance with the international trading
practice after delivery of the materials on board or payment
according to the progress of procuring the materials ordered as shall
be specified in the contract.                                                   I
Engagement of consultants
21.         Consultants may be engaged by either of the following methods:
(a)   direct negotiations;
(b)   selection method.
22.         Before proceeding with engagement of a consultant, the off cial
responsible shall submit to the head of the government agency concerned a report
which shall contain, inter alia, the following particulars:
(a)   reasons and needs for engagement;
(b)   details of the services to be contracted;
(c)   estimated cost;
(d)   period of engagement;
(e)   method of engagement and reasons thereof;
(f)   other pertinent particulars (if any).
Once the official responsible has obtained approval from the head of the
government agency, he may proceed with the engagement of a consultant.
Contracting
23.         A contract and documents relating to the purchasing of materials,
contracting for works or engagement of the consultants shall be made in
accordance with the samples attached hereto either in Kiswahili or in English
language.
24.         At the discretion of the purchaser or employer, excluding inter alia
payment in advance a written agreement is permitted under the following:
(a)   Purchasing or contracting for works by negotiations;
(b)   Where the delivery of materials or completion of work(s) is within
five official working days starting from the day following the date
of such an agreement.
25.         If it is necessary for a contract and related documents to differ
from the attached sample in versions or particulars while the principal substance
of the sample is maintained and the government is not put in a disadvantageous
position, such a contract and related documents shall be permitted. However,
if the purchaser or employer considers the contract and related documents to be
disadvantageous to the government or is loosely written, a draft of the contract



- 90 -                         Annex 4-3
Page 7 of 9
and related documents shall be sent to the MCW (Contracts Control Unit) for
prior review.
26.         Where the attached sample (standard) documents cannot be followed
and an entirely new version has to be drawn up, a draft of such a contract and
related documents shall be sent to the MCW (Contracts Control Unit).
Alterations
27.         Once signed, the contract or written agreement may not be altered,
except when an alteration does not put the government in a disadvantageous
position. The head of the government agency concerned shall be responsible for
permitting any alteration.
28.         Alteration of the signed contract or written agreement which shall
cause an increase in the contract sum, the Principal Secretary shall be
responsible for approval of such alterations.  However, where the amount of
counterpart fund has been increased above budget allocations, prior agreement
of the Treasury shall be obtained in accordance with the regulations of the
budget.
29.         An extension of the contracts may be approved by the head of the
government agency concerned if the contract prices fall within his purchasing
or contracting authority, otherwise it has to De approved by the National
Committee or the Central Tender Board as the case may be.
30.         The contract extension, which includes the abstention or reduction
of penalties in favor of the supplier or contract, shall be permitted only in
the case of "force majeure" or default or shortcoming of the part of the
purchaser or employer.
Penalties
31.         Penalty rates per day to be imposed on the supplier or contractor
for undelivered materials/goods or delayed works shall be as follows:
(a)   In the case of purchasing for goods or materials the penalty shall
be imposed at 0.10 - 0.20 percent of undelivered materials/goods
value, up to a sum equivalent to the amount of the performance
guarantee;
(b)   In the case of contracting for works, the penalty shall be imposed
at 0.10 - 0.15 percent of the contract value, up to a sum equivalent
the amount of the performance guarantee.
The penalty rates shall be specified in the inquiry notice or the bidding
documents, and also in the contract.
Penalties for person abandoning the work
32.         Where a successful supplier, contractor or consultant fails to
execute the contract or agreement within the specified time or fails to comply



- 91 -
Annex 4-3
Page 8 of 9
with the contract or agreement without an acceptable reason which results in the
termination of such contract or agreement, the head of the government agency
shall refer the matter to the Principal Secretary concerned for considered
action. When the Principal Secretary rules that any person has been regarded
as abandoning work, the name of such person shall be forwarded by the Ministry
to the person taking charge and control of the execution of these Regulations
in order to inform the various government agencies of it.
33.         A government agency shall not purchase from, contract with or employ
a person or firm abandoning work, except where the Principal Secretary-MCW or
head of Government agency orders otherwise.



- 92 -
Annex 4-3
Page 9 of 9
LIST OF STANDARD PROCUREMENT DOCUMENTS
1.          Bidding Documents for:
(i)      International Competitive Bidding-Works
(ii)      Local Competitive Bidding-Works
(iii)      International Competitive Bidding-Goods
(iV)      Local Competitive Bidding-Goods
(v)      Draft Purchase Order for International Shopping
(vi)      Prequalification Documents for Works
2.          Contract for Consultancy Services
3.          Contract for Small Value Consultancy Services
4.          Contract for Piece Work
5.          Documents for Procurement of Services for Equipment Rehabilitation
6.          Document for Selection of Procurement Agents



- 94 _                           Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Evaluation and Imnact Criteria For Rural Roads
1.        The proposed evaluation and impact assessment criteria for rural
roads involves a three-stage approach comprising initial screening, final
economic evaluation, and monitoring and post evaluation.
Screening
2.        Proposed criteria to be used for initial screening of rural
roads earmarked for rehabilitation include cost and benefit related
criteria based on social and agricultural output considerations as detailed
in Appendix 1. The proposed factors to be used have been chosen with the
aim of capturing all necessary factors and keeping the methodology as
simple as possible without the need to apply detail data.
3.        The methodology to be used is based on a simple system of
assigning points to indicate the score of an individual road for each
factor. The factors are given weights in accordance with their presumed
importance. In this respect the total agricultural output value factor of
the road catchment area is given the maximum weighting of 30 percent to
reflect the importance and current focus of directing investment to
projects that support agricultural production. Population density,
considered as the most important representative of social factors, and the
condition of the road under consideration are each assigned a weighting of
15 percent. The remaining factors are all given a weighting of 10 percent
each.
4.        The Regional Engineer will be responsible for processing the
results .tained at the Screening Stage. The reliability of the
methodo -,gy can be analyzed with the results of final economic evaluation.
Any changes necessary must be made following such analysis.
Final Economic Evaluation
5.        Ranking of the preselected roads by screening will be made using
the simple economic evaluation methodology given in the attached road
project selection manual (Appendix 2). The method primarily considers the
projected increase in agricultural output (as a result of the investment)
as the major component of benefit.
6.        Given the difficulties associated with adequate selection of
supply response coefficients, the evaluation data of the ongoing first
phase should be used as inputs in this exercise.
7.        The Regional Engineer will be responsible for the evaluation.
The results will be sent to the MCW Headquarters Planning and Research
Division and the Rural Roads Division for final decision.



- 95 -
Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 3
Monitoring and Evaluation
8.        As a feedback to planning, monitoring and evaluation of road
projects will be carried out after 1-2 yea:s of project completion.  The
major aim of the evaluation is to compare the actual results with the
assumptions and projections made during planning and to provide better
estimates of supply response coefficients for the final evaluation
exercise.
9.        The Regional Engineer will be responsible for carrying out
monitoring and evaluation of selected rural roads projects. He will get
assistance and guidance from the Y.CW headquarters Planning and Research
Division and the Rural Roads Division.  Ir addition, short-term
consultants, predominantly local, will be used particularly during the
early stages of development of the system.
10.       The methodology for evaluation should be general enough to make
it applicable to various project components funded by different donors. In
this respect, existing studies by USAID, NORAD, SDC, SIDA and ILO should be
consulted.
Aplication of the Criteria
11.       The criteria will initially be used to select rural roads for
rehabilitation during the second phase of the Core Rural Roads
rehabilitation programme. The criteria will later on be used in other
districts as a basis of rural roads investment planning in the country.



- 96 -                                 Annex 4-4
Page 3 of 3
IRP Rural Roads Screening Methodology
POINTS   WEIGHTS   WEIGHTED  MEAN
MHn.Max.           Points  Percent
COST FACTOR2
Engineering Factors
Gravel Source        1 = distance over 2 kms                       1     2      2         a     1O.X
 a distarce loss than 2 kms
Special Problems     I = rocky, swampy,  mountainous barriers    1       2      2         3     1OOX
2 = otherwise
Sub-Total                                                          2     4                8     20.0%
BENEFIT FACTORS
Access Effects
Connectivity         1 = bad state of links to trunk roads         1     2      2         a     10.0X
2 = otherwise
Access to Services  1 = no access to schools and health            1     2      2         3     10.0X
2 = provides access to school, health
Condition of Road   1 = all-weather                                1     a      2         4     15.OX
2 = reliable (dry s*ason only)
3 = no access
Sub-Total                                                          8     7                10    85.0%
Imoact
Total Crop Value    1 = below district average                     1     3      4         8     80.0X
per Km (TSH/Km)    2 = equal to district average
8   above district average
Population Density  1 = above district average                     1     3      2         4     15.0O
(person/square-k.)   2 = equal to district average
8 = above district average
Sub-Total                                                          2     0                12    46.0%
TOTAL     Minimum Score                                                                     28   100.0%



<~~~~~~~~~ <-                               -          -   -     -   -   - * -   - 2              
v @ 31^ e ^     _  ^ z_ a  zjr n er ; ^     n e "r i e9 _ c     * @ ; _  z 3a 0 v@ M _  7 3 %    9 7 
*1   |  A g ^;  ' r g s  ' '    .< S = ' W 9 E 2 | ,< |  W ' '                ;    T       i           i       i    W 1 1 1~~~~~~~~~,I
<>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 0                 g>^i2uXo         
,  ~~~~ !o~04                     a   .|tEgEEiEE*W*Sess0*O*w        
i~~~~~~~~ o                                                                             a      8 c    5  *0 0 -* SO  __t
reeZSor   eo  o                         ob                         ro 11     ia4e*oov o~W@_weS le^o^XX*t 
- - - - -T - -- - - - - - -  -                                          ---                                                     
-    .   ---                   - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---------



a   a  a   0        e  8        a  a  UE          aac    aaa"o
o   or                     co x                    _       x       v
0   *0   -         0          m    H           0 o     0 -     -
0D_r -en   r   X 
-. -   -   -                         -  -       -     c  -          - -
e * 8 S ^ _ X u xr"                                      I
*   U e         ~ 0-                                      04   i  n
-O -   -     -   -   -   O-   -   -   - _             
-     --  ---  --          -   -
- -     - - -            a-   -   -   - -     -
00   U  HaC   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~tin~~~~~~1~~0
3
| 08
U~~~~~~~~
tD t
p~~~
o0.
0z~~~Ye
__ -        l.0.



- 9- -                             Annex 4-6
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Tentative List of Equipment for Riaht Local Contractors
Unit      Total
Type of Equipment                         No.        Cost      Cost
(US$9ooo) (US$0ooo)
Motorgraders (120 hp)                      8         100        800
Tractor (60-90 hp)                        16         20         320
Tandem roller (7-1OT)                      8         50         400
Towed rollers (3T)                         8         10          80
Flat-bed trucks                            8          30        240
Dump truck (7T)                           24          35        840
Pickup (4 x 4)                             8         20         160
Backhoe (0.5 cu m)                         8         50         400
Site dumper (0.5 ctl m)                    8         20         160
Concrete mixer (200 1)                     8           5         40
P'edestrian roller (5 hp)                  8         10          80
Vibratory tamper (3 hp)                    8           3         24
Water tanker (8000 1)                      8          45        360
Water pump (2-3 inches)                   16           6         96
Service trunk                              8         50         400
Fuel tanker                                8         15         120
Workshop tool set                          8          15        120
Trailers for tractors                     16          5          80
Hand tools                                 8           5         40
Sub-total                                      4,760
Initial stock of spare parts (52)                240
TOTAL                  5,000



- to1 -                         Annex 4-7
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
A.   Equipment Rehabilitation Program
1.        Total MCW road  fleet  available for trunk  and regional  road
maintenance is estimated at 700 units, of which 502 or some 350 units are
estimated to be working or repairable. Presently about 185 of these units
are in good or fair working order. About 350 units wll need to be auctioned
or scrapped.
2.        The 350 available units will be transferred to the MCW Plant Pool
once they are in good condition. About 260 of these units are to be repaired
under IRP, the remainder are either in good condition or are included under
ongoing projects.
3.        MCW has the capacity to repair in its sevan zonal workshops about
20-30 units p.a. Private worksnops should be able to repair some 90 units
p.a. Consequently, in addition to the ongoing repair programs which should
be completed by mid-1991, the equipment repair program under IRP will take
about 24 months and be completed by mid-1993; however, a further six months
of repair work is planned for repairing equipment presently working which
could break down in the future. The breakdown cost estimates up to end-1993
are shown below.
Units     Unit Cost       Total Cost
(No.)       (US$)         (US$ '000)
Private garage repairs, incl. spares:
- heavy equipment                    45         25,000           1,125
- heavy vehicles                     80         17,500           1,400
- light vehicles                     75          9,000             675
Spare parts for MCW workshops              60        12,500             750
260                         3,950
(say 4,000)
B.   Work Output of MCW Equipment
4.        From FY1991/92 MCW should have about 2;20 units working, which are
capable of earning about US$2.6 million (452 ownership and 552 operating
costs) for road works (regravelling, reshaping and rehabilitation of unpaved
roads) per year.   It is estimated that with regular additions of the
rehabilitated equipment, the maximum service level for the 350 units should
be reached by mid-1993. Therefore, from FY1993/94 onwards, MCW Plant Pools
should earn about US$4,300,000 per year in hire charges (assuming 502
availability in all years).



- 102 -                         Annex 4-7
Page 2 of 2
5.        The earnings of MCW Plant Pool under TEP is suumarized as follows:
FY91192   FY92/93   FY93/94   FY94/95
Number of units functioning         220        280        350       350
Hire earnings (USS millions)        2.6        3.3        4.3       4.3
Hire cost to MCW budget li           1.8       ?.3        3.0       3.0
6.        From end-FY1990/91, when the MCW Plant Pool should be functioning.
through FY1994/95, the period when funding assistance from IDA is available,
the total amount of hire cost to HCW budget would be about US$10.0 million
(of which 352 would be financed by IDA).
C.   Output of Private Plant Pools
7.        Based on the estimated amount of equipment required for the private
plant pools (Attachment), the annual earnings from hire charges should be
about US$4.0 million per year (60: availability). The private plant pools
should be fully functioning by end-1991. Therefore, the total amount of hire
cost to MCO  budget (considering 70? hiring by REOs) through FY1994195 would
be about US$10.0 million (of which 352 would be financed by IDA).
8.        The estimated amount of equipment needed to be purchased under IRP
for Private and MCW Plant Pools is shown in the attachment.   The actual
requirements will be determined by the ongoing plant pool study, and
finalized by Credit Effectiveness.
1/ Assuming that about 70? of MCW Plant Pool hiring will be to REOs and
302 to contractors.



- 103 -                           Annex 4-7
Attachment
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Teistative List of Equipment Required for Private and MCW Plant Pools
Unit      Total
Private Plant Pools                       No.        Cost       Cost
(USt'OOO) (US$'000)
Crushing/screening plant                   2         400        800
Bulldozers (160 hp)                        5         140        700
Wheel loaders (2 cu m)                     5         110        550
Backhoes (0.5 cu m)                       10          50        500
Pneumatic rollers (15T)                   10          80        800
Tandem rollers (7-lOT)                    10          50        500
Towed rollers (3T)                         8          10         80
Pedestrian rollers                        35          15        525
Compressors (600 cfm)                      4          50        200
Airtrack drills and bits                   4         100        400
Dump trucks (710T)                        20          45        900
Flat-bed trucks                           30          34      1,020
Water or fuel tanker Lrucks               20          55      1,100
Bitumen distributors                       2        110         220
Fuel trailers                             20         14         280
Workshop trailers                         15          50        750
Tractor, low loaders                       2        160         320
Generator sets (30kw)                     10          10        100
Pumps (2-3 inches)                        40           6        240
Patching units                             5          15         75
Workshop equipment and tools               2         800      1,600
Subtotal                                                 11,660
Initial stock of spare parts (5X)                               585
TOTAL Private Plant Pools                                12,245
MCW Plant Pools and R$08
Bitumen sprayers                           5           3         15
Chip spreaders                             5           5         25
Mechanical brooms                          2           5         10
Towed graders                             24          15        360
Motorbikes (150cc)                       100           2        200
Bicycles                                 300           0.15      45
Water trailers (1000 1)                   20           2.5       50
Concrete mixers (200 1)                   20           5        100
Hand tampers (vibratory)                  20           1         20
Camping equipment                         30           5        150
Set.-ice trucks                           19          50        950
Workshop tools                             7         100        700
Subtotal                                                  2,625
Initial stock of spare parts (5Z)                               130
TOTAL MCW Plant Pool                                      2,755
TOTAL  PRIVATE & MCW PLANT POOLS                         15,000



-105-                        Annez-4-8
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
INTEGRATVD ROADS PROJECT
AIR TANZANIA CORPORATION
Introduction
Air Tanzania Corporation (ATC), the state-owned airline, has a fleet of
eight aircraft which it flies on routes within Tanzania, within the region
and also to Dubai and Muscat.  Since its found_..g, following the
dissolution of East African Airways in 1977, ATC has been profitable in
just one year (1983). In each of the last two years, the company has lost
US$8-10 million despite high load factors. The major reasons for ATC's
failure to break even are: low yields; high operating costs; low equipment
availability; government interference in operating decisions; and,
recently, a foreign exchange mismatch in its financial structure.
Restructuring Plan
In October/November 1988, the World 'lank, Scanavia of Sweden and Aer Lingus
of Ireland carried out a strategic evaluation of ATC and put forward the
following restructuring plan:
(i) Fares to be increased by 100-1502 on domestic routes.
(ii) Organization structure to be streamlined.
(iii) Staff to be reduced by 20S.
(iv) Newly-designed financial and performance reports to be introduced.
(v) Remuneration policy to be studied with a view to increasing
productivity incentives.
(vi) Uneconomic routes to be suspended unless the Government identifies
social or political benefits, in which case a subsidy should be paid to ATC
for operating the route.
(vii) Headquarters office space to be reduced.
(viii) Government to provide ATC with basic business freedoms, such as
setting tariffs, choosing which routes to operate etc.
(ix) Since ATC faces nearly US$20 million in short-term cash outflows
(which is greater th."a the Company's total assets) either it must receii-
an immediate capita] infusion from the Government, or it must sell and
lease back one or both of its two Boeing 737 aircraft.



- 106 -                       Annex 4-8
Page 2 of 3
Actioons To Date
Since the restructuring plan was put forward in November 1988, the
following steps have been taken:
(i) Domestic fares were increased by 60% in February 1989 and 50Z in April
1989 on average, with low yielding routes experiencing the largest
increases and non-residents having to pay in foreign currency. Load
factors in April/May 1989 were a fraction lower than in April/May 1988,
indicating low elasticity. The fare increases will reduce ATC's losses by
about US$4 million per annum.
(ii) The Standing Commission on Parastatal Organizations (SCOPO) has
approved a new organization structure, albeit one different from the one
proposed by ATC, which closely resembled the Bank9s advised structure.
Some but not all of the recommended streamlining has taken place.
(iii) The staff reduction program has been implemented. A hiring freeze
has been in place for over a year (except for pilots for whom the rate of
turnover is very high). A overall reduction of 24% has been achieved.  This
should save ATC about US$300,000 per annum.
(iv) The new MIS forms have been introduced.
(v) Clearly uneconomic routes to Seychelles, Kigali, Shinyanga and Masaai
have been discontinued. A route profitability analysis is underway to
identify and suspend additional uneconomic routes. This exercise, if
carried to completion, should save ATC about US$2 million per annum.
(vi) The third floor of ATC House has been leased out (bringing in about
US$200,000 per annum) and staff relocated in Tancot House and at the
airport.
(vii) ATC has obtained insurance quotations from international companies
and has consequently been able to renegotiate its insurance contract with
National Insurance Corporation, saving about US$700,000.                                 ;
(viii)  A Cabinet Paper has been drafted by a joint team from MCW and ATC
requesting various business freedoms for ATC.
(ix) The Government injected 565 million Tanzanian Shillings (US$4 million
equivalent) in March 1989. If a further infusion is not forthcoming, ATC
must adopt some a sale-leaseback transaction using its Boing 737. A
capital restructuring paper has been presented to the interministerial
committee of permanent secretaries prior to going to Cabinet.
Technical Assistance
Subject to the condition of negotiation defined below, the project would
include technical assistance to ATC. The resource mobilization objective
of the project goes beyond increased revenue intake from road users to
improved cost recovery in the transport sector as a whole.  Reducing and



- 107 -                       Annex 4-8
Page 3 of 3
preferably eliminating ATC's operating losses is one component of this
objective. The Bank has identified four fields in which foreign experts
could play a critical role in helping to turn around ATC's performance.
Each expert would spend about two to three years working in one of the
following fields:
(i) Cost Accounting and Pricing. He/she would be responsible for
recommending restructuring of the route network based upon the route
profitability analysis and for optimising the schedules and for proposing
tariff changes.
(ii) Marketing. He/she would deal with cargo and passenger market
development, reservation systems and sales force productivity.
(iii) Computing. He/she would be responsible for the development and
upgrading of computerised systems for commercial and technical activities,
the implementation of such systems and the training of ATC systems staff.
(iv)  Human Resource Management.  He/she would be responsible for the                  -
Company's more general training needs and for specific studies relating to
remuneration, performance targets etc.
(v) Corporate Restructuring. ATC has submitted to the Government for
consideration a n4sw corporate restructuring plan which would, inter alia,
make the airlines self-financing by 1992. Plan is being discussed by the
inter-ministerial committee.



- 109 -                                           Annex 4-9
TANZANIA                                Page l of 6
INTEGRATED ROAQS PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
COST TABLE
Date Printed:
20-Apr-O6
TOTAL                          X OF COST
____ ___-          _          _____ _THAT IS:
COMPONENT                    LOCAL     FOREICF   TOTAL      QTY. unIt  LOC  FOR       DONOR
(USe 'OSO
A.  Institutional Support
(i) MCW Management *nd Technical D v-lopmnt
(a) Rural Roads Division                  144.6    576.0        726.0    72 mu    20X   BOX NORAD/USAID
(b) Contracts Administration              230.6    952.0    1,106.6       7e M      206  8ox  AfDF
tc) Road Inspectorate                     27.6   1,68.6       1,86U.O   9s M        20X   8ox  IDA
td) Regional Engineers Off Ices         2,964.6  11,616.6    14,526.6  1,216 MM     26x   8X  DONORS
(t) Equipment Mangenment                  824.0   1,296.6     1,620.0     W WMM     20X   sox  IDA
t) Manament and Adinistration            144.6    576.0        720.6   e    mm     20X   86X  IDA
(9) IRP Coordination (CODAP)              272.0  1,668.6      1,80.6    of MM       260  sox  IDA
(h) Planning and Operations Mgat          246.0    960.e      1,200.6    66 M       26X  8ox  IDA
(I) Contral Materials Leborntory
- Management Assietance                86.4    845.6        482.6    s6 mm      26X   86X  ODA
- Resarch and Exchange Vislts          62.0    268.0        260.6               206   86X  WA
- Laboratory Equipment                  6.0   1,548.0     1,548.0                ox  1OOX  IDA
(3) Road Satety/Welght Control Program
- Manegment Assistance                 86.4    845.6        482.6    86 MM      26!  sox  NORAD
- Equipment                             0.0    604.0       6"4.6                 ox  16X  IDA
(11) Transport Studies and Assistance
(a) Project Preparation                   6606.     0668.     1,566.6               46X  606  IDA
(b) Other Studies                       1,866.6   1,96.0    8,260.0                 46!  6ox  IDA/AfDF
(c) Zanzibar                              120.0    186.,        86.0                401  66X  IDA
(iii) OSM Engineering Faculty
(a) Training Facilities                    92.0    188.0        280.0               40X   66!  fRO
(b) Training Equipmnt                      17.0    828.6  84 0.0                     SX   9sx FRO
(c) Managoment Support                    146.0    584.0        780.0    61 M       26!  S8X  FRO
(d) Staff Training                          6.6    200.0        200.0                    166X  FRO
(Iv) MCTI Training Program
(a) Training Facilities                   116.0     165.6       276.6               46X   66!  IDA
(b) Training Equipment                      6.6  1,190.6      1,1906.                ox  1006  IDA
(c) Instructors                            86.4     201.6       288.6     24 M      86X   76X  IDA
Cd) Trainee Allowance                     125.6       0.0       125.0              166X   6X  IDA
cv) MCW Manpower Planning and Training
(a) Technical Assistance                   57.6    286.4        208.0    24 M       26X  sox  IDA
(b) Seminar and Workshop                   96.6 O   84.6        486.6               206    8X  IDA
(e) Overseas Training                       6.0    920.0        920.0               O6  166X  IDA
td) Local Training                        8060.6       .0       666.6              160X   6X  IDA
(vI) Renovation Of MCI and REO Facility    1,600.0   1,660.6     2,600.6               46X  6eo   IDA
(vii) National Construction Council
(a) Contractor Training A Management      216.0    864.0      1,86.0    90 mm       26x   8.S IDA
(b) Construction Reserch                   40.0     100.6       200.0    so M       260  660  IDA
(viii) Labor-Based Works Training
(a) Trainers                              189.0  1,071.0      1,266.0     60 MM     15X  s8x UNDP(ILO)
(b) Training Equipment                      6.6     86s.6       860.6                ox  166!  IDA
(ix) National Institute of Transport
(a) Training Facilities                   16.6    240.0         466.6               46!   66!  IDA
(b) Training Equipment                      0.0     200.0       200.0                6X  1006  IDA
(c) Management Assietance                  86.6     120.0       160.0     12 MM     206  86!  IDA
(d) Staff Training                         060      756.0       760.0                OX  166X  IDA
(x) Procurement Rogulations Study           456.0   1,024.0     2,260.0   190 MM      26X  80  IDA
(xI) Arusha Technical College8
(a) Building Renovation                   124.0    I89.0        614                       6!X FRO
(b) Equipment Materials                    12.0     228.0       240.0               5S   95! FRO
(c) Management Support                    102.0    408.0        510.6.    S  mm     261   8!X  FRO
(d) Short-term fellowships                  6.0     186.6       186.0                6X  16O6  FRO
(xii) Comunication and Office Technology        60.   1,200.0     1,200.0                6!  16NS  IDA
Subtotal Part A Base Cost                  10,641.8  87,795.2    40,487.0
Physical Contingencies                        582.1   1,889.8     2,421.9
Pric  ContIngencies                         1,168.1  4,047.6      5,26.8
Subtotal Part A Total Cost                 12,832.0 48,782.6    56,O64.6



B.   Rehabilitation Program 1/                                                                                Annex 4-9
(I) Paved Trunk Roads                                - 110 -                                          Page 2 of 6
I   First Yoer Program (FY90)
(1)  Chalinze-Segern                    5,766.1  28,664.0    26,89.0       98 KM      293   6OX  DANIDA
(2)  Segera-Tange                      4,622.1  16,088.4    20,110.6       71 KM      209   893  DANIDA
(3)  Segero-Same                       5,828.0  28,292.2    29,115.2    179 K14    20h   693  FRO
II   Second Year Program  (FY91)
(1)  Ibanda-Uyole                      4,812.0  17,246.6    21,566.6       96 KM      209   893  NETHERL'D/EEC
(2)  Same-Him. Jct,                     1,649.8  14,847.8    16,497.6      82 KM      19X   963  NORAD
(3)  Lindi-Mingoyo-Mtsara              0,00.6  26,490.6    88,966.6   l1  Km         263   603  FINNIDA
(4)  Kobero-Nyaksaanza                 4,200.6  16,800.0    21,000.0    6o  KM        20X   60h  EEC
(6)  Kibiti-Somong                     4,89o.0  19,260.0    24,600.0    6O KM         263   SOX  SAUDI FUND/?
(6)  Bukombe-louok  (upgrade)          0,000..  82,696.6    4e,0a.6    118 KM         20X   609  EEC
(7)  Dodoma-Mtera (upgrede)            4,676.8  42,666.0    46,78e.9    126 KM        193   98X  ITALY
III   Third Year Program (FY92)
(1)  Uwanza-Nyanguge                   1,477.   65,911.8       7,889.2     84 KM      20X   69X  EEC
(2)  Mlngoyo-MLoosi                       299.7   1,19t.9      1,496.6    116 KM      293   693  FINNIDA
(8)  Musoma-Sirari (upgraed)            7,in.0  28,00.        15,66.6      96 KM      29x   693  EEC
(4)  Himo Jct-Arusho                   6,689.1  82,288.6    87,927.0    164 KM        165  65X  AfOF/NORAD
(5)  DSM-Bagamoyo                      6,064.6  20,019.2    26,024.6       68 KM      29X   693  ITALY
IV   Fourth Year Program (FY98)
(1)  TANZAM - Section VI               8,109.6  12,400.0    16,606.0       74 KM      20t   69X  UNFINANCED
(2)  TANZAM Reseal                     2,096.6   8,9o9.0    16,666.0   560  KM        20Y   6X  OCDA/UNFINANCE
(3)  Muania-Ussgara                     1,662.5   4,821.8     5,412.8      22 KM      29X   60X  IDA
(ii) Unpaved Roads
II   Second Year Proora  (FY91)
(a) Lusahung. Bihoramulo Jct-Ulsagr   2,587.5   6,037.6       6,626.0    280 KM       893  7?0   IDA
(b) Tundum4-Lutche                     2,642.5   6,932.6      6,476.0    226 KM       806   761  IDA
(c) Shelul-Singida-Babati-Sereku      83,49.6   8,259.9    11,799.6    810 KM         80X  7t   IDA
(d) Songea-Mbinga                      8,666.6   6,496.0    12,600.0       96 KM      89X   /6X  EEC
(e) Njombe-Mulangsli-Madeba            2,598.0   0,627.0       8,619.0    196 KM      893   70X  EEC
IIr   Third Yes- Program (FY92)
(a) MikuMi-Ifakara                     2,629.5   6,186.5       6,765.6    164 KM      893   76a  SWISS
(b) Dodoma-Singide                     2,988.9   6,974.1       9,963.0    248 KM      SO6   763  IDA
(e) Tabora-Nzega-Singida Border        2,568.8 65,06.8        8,682.5    228 KM       893X  7?   IDA
IV   Fourth Year Program (FY98)
(a) Mtera-Iringa                       1,440.0   8,866.        4,866.6    126 Km    S89   7?3  ITAL!
(b) Minjingu-Dabati-  ereku-Kondoo     2,709.8   6,821.7       9,081.0    166 KM      89X   763  ITALY
(c) Songea-Mascei                      1,803.0   3,227.0      4,810.0    401 KM       30X   70X  IDA
(d) Unagara-Nzega                      1,868.9   4,8 1.2      4,467.6    174  KM      86S   763  IDA
(iii) Trunk koad Bridges
(a) Phase I                            1,600.0   4,S00.0      o,0a0.0      20 NO.    25X   76X  IDA
(iv) Regional Road1
(a) Phase I                           27,600.0        0.0    27,000.9  1,890 KM    1663    ON  USAID
(b) Contractors' Equipmnt                   0.0  56660.0       5,666.6                 63  1606   IDA
(c) Bilateral Donor Programs           7,200.6  10,800.0    19,00.6  1,20O KM         40X   60X  DONOR$
(v) Ferry Crossings
(a) Civil Works                           125.0     875.0       160.0                 265   75X  IDA
(b) Overhaul Equipment and Spares           0.0   1,566.6      1,599.6                 OX  16X  IDA
Subtotal Part B Baso Cost                   141,780.4 488,812.8   578,098.8
Physical Contingencies                       16,824.2  60,890.7    74,715.0
Price Contingencioe                          18,161.0  57,605.7    75,726.6
Subtotal Part B Cost                        178,265.6 5G0,269.8   726,584.9
1/ includes supervision and engineering



C.  Maintenance Program                               - 11 -P
Pa~ge3 3f 6
(1)  Road Maintenance Equlpment                 *.0  1S,6m.S    15,666.G                 OX  1IM5  IDA
(ii)  Equlpment Rehabilitation                U60.0  J,200.6      4,600.0               261  80h IDA
I ill) Equipment Hire to mid-1995         18,665.0  7,600.0   20,eoo.0                  65   852  IDA
iv)  Contract Maintenance to mid-1995      0,0M.0  14,666.0    20,61W.0                8eb  70X  IDA
(v)  Emergency Works                        J,OOO.6   7,0.0    16,66.0                  J0h   70h  IDA
Subtotal Part C Saoe Co t                  22,100.0  46,200.0   09,61W.G
Physical Contingenclo                        681.9  1,280.4      1,912.2
Price Contingencioe                         8,861.4   6,185.6    10,047.0
Subtotal Part C Cost                       27,293.8  6,86J6.0    80,969.8
D.   Freight, Passenger and Air Transportation
(I)  LManagement Assistance to ATC            456.0   1,860.0     2,2560.0    1N Mi     261  691  IDA
VI1)   Asaistance to NTC, RETCO'o             460.0  1,940.0      2,86.0    6 5  MM     205   8OX  IDA
(1ii)  Aslsstance for DSM Passenger Trans     120.0    486.9        660.6    so MM      2ex   8ex IDA
Subtotal Part D Bass Cost                   1,860.6  4,120.0    5,156.O
Physical Contingencies                          0.6       0.6         0.0
Prico Contingencloo                            84.9     889.4       424.8
Subtotal Part D Cost                        1,114.9   4,459.4     6,674.8
TOTAL BASE COST                           176,252.2 524,426.0   70066,6.8
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGEhCIES               19,488.2  69,569.9   79,649.1
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGNCIES                  28,265.4  68,188.4   91,488.8
TOTAL COST                                219,665.3 652,127.8  371,188.1                 6     a



0.1.                                                       f 337ECT FPMMll  TA.BLE
20- -90                                                  ------ -- --
(UN '000)
ctew                      tMAL      U0K     08W3       89      ITALY   PDUUA    ODA         Wm       "W     WILNOU* 18620                       D *I           am       WADI f*e   an  t        we
A. Us;"4a SoWf
NM t b t_-t o  To. Dwlo.
(.3  ..s*  isd 02.2.2..              ti.4                                                                          *.i$
(I) Iat.,.fam  Diii                   10m.4                                                                       418.7              426.7
(b) Used 6t. Atw.isl,4             1,3 3.9   1   .
(4) Usgl.g bgI..w..                  l          ,.l,tssse   s   ,t.                                     .l oewsiiw                                               t
(0)t seiom l  Gool "?s ;so nt s  16.764   8  2,718.0            i.8 S.0            6, 1 .6  8017.6   1,Ois.s   8.017.0                                          ga'sm ,                         7.
( ) swipme  Obruma                  1,ti7D.4   I,0t.4w.
tf)  _ swwo NW Aftwoorsti             M.3      7511.9                                                                                                                                            t
(d) M COotdis.t2   (A)              1,874.4   2,427.0                                                                                                                                           u.4
(8) Pf.siss mad %*"*;M* I           1,3".2  I.=.S                                                                                                                                              IS?
(I) Camta, Usteilss   w.sttw,
-   .me8mn AssIst.*              6am I                                                     80O.1                                                                                             0.
-  _.s.s.c2, A Cad,,.g. VI.2$t    8DI.0                                                    801.0                                                                                              0.0
- L-te.,ts.p t    st            1,812S.61.6   1.812,.
(I) 94. Osftj9h  Csst..I P.sg
-_^* 948u8A.1ts.             2.731.
- isIp._se                        706.9     706.9                                                                                                                                             0.0
(2a) T_o73 8_02   d Ass.
(3 P roJ.e8 tPe.ps.ia               1,878.0   I,876.0
(8) Otb.r StWies                    8,906.4   I'.  1e3.6                                                                                                                                        870
(e)  aibe                             312.6     817.8                                        *
(    aii )   S soe g   P& C M 6 4 0 0     O
(.3 T.si.2,.1 r .ilii.e               2i7.6                        33.8                                                                                                                          "'.'
(b) TrO.2ss 8prw s                     9I. I                       871.6                                                                                                                           .6
t w.sst sp.t                         ON.8                          748.6                                                                                                                          i.6
(st)  mff Traiss                      23.9                         2e0.9
(2.) MTt Tr iW"q Pt4wr
(.3 T.si.s pe   2282"..              821.6     274.2                                                                                                                                            47.
(8) T.sis2a  IW   .,t               1,89.7   1,6601.7
(V)Ws 02.. Allooomee                 4.        S147.2
(M) am laPse  Pis..a2  _d Trvaieg
(.3 Tocb.i..2 AssIsse.                888.4     SD.2 I8.8
(t) $9m... NW  Var40                  676.5     576.8
()0...... Vol 2..Ohio.            2,M33    1,089.8                                                                                   0.0       0.0
(c)  Dr si _.F  *;is                  942.0     941.0                                                                                  0.0       0.0
(.2  Usms.ticaort O af NM Fqifi       21,948 a   2.3.t1                                                                                  4o1e.7
(  ;) obietl<    _ z cftt"o  w;Is
(s) Cs.t.sectw Tr*ifti2s A 00.s_.1,  1,808.0   1.171.2
(b) C.atva  Ms.ch                      O.9 9    2D7 a                                                                                                                                           ue.o
(a") Tio                             148t.2                                                              41.
(8) Ttel.si.,  &Wit                   394.2      94.2                                                  1,4.2 
(.  Ustiasel n"Itute of Y ".s-tsp.
(8) T.in,t.  Fecsis.I                 1 457.2    108.8                                                                                                                                            0 t7.7
tb) Usi.ing Ei;b_%                    22Zi.3    22ti.S                                                                                                                                            
(e) Okovemat Aos;t...                 178.6     186.8                                                                                                                                            1
(4) SW#f Tspi..                       188 1     me.1                                                                                                                                              0.0
(.) P      _  UgistIs. 8dy             2,t07.8   2,846.7                                                                                                                                          2N.?
(.2) A.wsb T.dnc.S  tall.
(3 ibildp a  .8;e                     838.1                        2i2.S                                                                                                                         70.6
t') Fv ,pus,,t vUst.iss               269 0                        261 8                                                                                                                          ' 7
(a)  3s.t .wt,                        877 4                        8ll.?                                                                                                                         87.7
(4) Sh..t-t... fsis.11 iWp           210 I                         180.1 
(.21) Ctt _ 50t2s.o A 0tff;e  i.a$,noIsg0,  1,872.4   1.372.4                                                                                                                                        0.0
ASbt%t.I P., A                         86,064.6  JO,ltS.0      0.0  4,2S.9        .0 8o,017.4  8,626.7  2,940.0  8.e42.0         0.0    418.?       0.0   6M8.2    tn.2  .064 8           0.0  2,740.8        0.0     t
0 I



_    _ ._                             -    ______ ---- ---  -- - -  -----  -----_ ----  ......
*.  "  VW    s -  1_   _
en   _<_a voi Pool7 OM
&ANI )b ("rl10                0,R.414U,.11.@ 1_
in    ^ @; o4o             (PM,
onaer4bo_ .
's f:: w_b w,e".                                                                                                                                                          ,#.
011m, JsbZ --rA                                                                               S.n.                                                  *.*..
te    1  _                    11.917-                              ,wt..
IV l_ t                r,_"M                                                                                                                                                             *.us-* t twis
amblT    .       VI       91.10.5                                                                                                                                                             I  .
Lo T _mp-l                     1O.M.    * . -                                                                                                                                        S "W.
td) _4|110              t$,@1w.00.2                                                                                          "Z.
( ) i-1 1 1 _            "~~~~~~2.8w                                                                                         0.1111.11
~~~~~~~~~~~~.00    111.1111-                                                                                                                                                &s.e 4n.4
.> _ s.1   ~~~~~J.6.4e  0                                      ".s .4
bd m w&_*ffiw                  O _.1  _sst.  ,. 1. 9a.?
?sW  M"  ..op               c         _ .e 
"weej          _       .       S.04.6 _  t_. 0. z*
W*l@                        ,1"~~~~~l . "90". T.2,41,*                             *.          ee""1"e.  it."".                                           T   Z       s*" s    ".e    i
tb) cowwo"ioo owlsomb  &.=.I   G.M.2~~~~~~~~~~^ 
(a) slootmo somw proorme,  21.0m.1  1.1".0                        1.00.6            0.4".7   1.00.0   *.M.?~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~a



cnSet                    TOTAL    1MA      06614    "0        tM.V  FP36M W1       A       Wmt r            1IPAe  WnD          N       1Th.MS  B SD    AM               WM     t C T 
C. Shintosuw P_o.'u
(I)  81-_   md.  4wl.41               17.142.0    4,780.6                                                                                                                                       0.0
(|1)    1 t iliXrtler       ~4,TC0.    4.7tlO.
(Ill) sqolps. N.W" to .1696s        26,64.2   6.274.6                                                                                                                                      8 .4
(It) COmbKt ObSI.t          to id-1.... o81-8  22.676.0  1 6..
(    G) .?rgC  W.*.                  12.647.2  10,663.1                                                                                                                                     1,08.1
S..btout P.,4 C                       80.9893  60,276.8       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0  W.UI.0       0.0
D.    F,    1^* h_I Tr 9morw"C
(I)    _     t A; st      0 . toATC   2.421.1   2.I166..
(ii) An; sso  oNTC, MEMO'S            2.496.1   2.24.8                                                                                                                                         249.6
(iii) Amist. fto 0S" ps   wr Tf.wp.     680.2      MiA                                                                                                                                          6.0.
&Ab*Ul P,t 0                           6.674.8   6,016.9      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0o.     0      0. 0     0. 0      0. 0           0.0 o.4           0.0
TOTAL    T  COsT                     871,1.1 010,424.  669.81.7 81.968.  91,6M2.2  46*S e.o t18i460  2,960.0 6,64.0  1,965.6  O,9tt.0 170,97.5  0,6.0   4,76.9  4,1.4  fl..   65,661.4 66.1
(D XD
0%



- l115
Annex   4-9B
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
IDA FINANCED ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAN
FY 1990/91
* Lusahunga-Biharamulo Jct.-Usagara                 230 km
* Tunduma-Luiche                                    226 km
* Shelui-Singida-Babati-Bereku                      310 km
FY 1991/92
* Tabora-Nzega-Singida Border                       223 km
* Dodoma-Singida                                    243 km
FY 1992/93
* Mwanza-Usagara                                      22 km
U usagara-Nzega                                      173 km



- 117 -                     Annex 4-10
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
Key Actions for ImPlementing IDA-Financed Components
Target
ComPonent                           Action               Date
INMTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
CODAP and MCW Management, Training:
Technical assistance for 1 civil engineer    Prepare TOR           May 1990
- 36 mth, 1 accountant - 36 mth, plus         Select individuals  Jul 1990
8 m-m unallocated - 80 m-m for CODAP          Sign contract        Sep 1990
1 human resources specialist - 24 mth         Prepare TOR          May 1990
for MPTS                                      Select individual   Jul 1990
Sign contract       Sep 1990
MCTI Instructors (various short-term           Prepare TOR         May 1990
specialists) - 24 m-m                         Select individuals  Jun 1990
Sign contracts      Oct 1990
Short-term specialists for MCW management    Prepare TOR           Jun 1990
and mor.itoring functions - 60 m-m            Select individuals  Open
Assistance to Inst. of Engineers'              Prepare TOR          Jul 1990
Registration Board and the Institute           Invite proposals    Aug 1990
of Engineers                                  Sign contract        Jan 1991
Assistance to NIT through twinning             Shortlist & TOR      Jun 1990
with similar institution - 12 m-m              Invite proposals    Jul 1990
Sign contract       Dec 1990
MCW Roads Inspectorate:
Technical assistance for 1 road maintenance  Shortlist & TOR       Apr 1990
planning and programming engineer -            Invite proposals    May 1990
36 mth, 2 roads engineers(inspectors) -       Sign contract        Oct 1990
48 mth, plus 6 m-m unallocated   90 m-m
Transport Planning and Operations Management:
Technical assistance for 2 economists         Shortlist & TOR      Apr 1990
1 transportation engineer - 72 m-m,           Invite proposals    May 1990
plus 8 m-m unallocated - 80 m-m                Sign contract       Oct 1990



- 118
Annex 4-10
Page 2 of 5
Core REOs (Mwanza & Shinyanga):
Technical assistance from a consulting        Shortlist & TOR      Apr 1990
firm or a highway agency for 2 highway        Invite proposals    May 1990
engineers - 72 m-m (full time) + 8 m-m         Sign contract       Oct 1990
(part time), 2 road maint. technicians
- 72 m-m (f.t.) + 8 m-m (p.t.),
1 procurement specialist - 24 m-m,
1 accountant - 24 m-m, plus 12 m-m
unallocated (part mechanical) - 220 m-m
Equipment Management and Maintenances
1 plant manager, 1 maintenance specialist,   Short list & TOR    Jul 1990
1 equip. & stores specialist to set up MCW   Invite proposals    Sep 1990
Plant Pool over first year - 40 m-m           Sign contract        Feb 1991
Rehabilitation of MCW road fleet and           Shortlist & TOR      Jul 1990
training in preventive maintenance by         Invite proposals    Aug 1990
8 master mechanics - 260 m-m                   Sign contract       Jan 1991
NCC for Contractor Training:
Technical and training assistance             Short list & TOR    Mar 1991
for 4 specialists - 90 m-m                    Invite proposals    Apr 1991
Sign contract       Sep 1991
Research specialist - 36 m-m                   Select specialist   Completed
Sign contract       Jun 1990
Procurement Regulations Study;
Multidisciplined team of procurement           Shortlist & TOR     Apr 1990
specialists for revising regulations and      Invite proposals    May 1990
supply management procedures - 190 m-r        Sign contract        Oct 1990
NTC and RETCOss
Continuation of ongoing assistance             Sign contracts      Open
through individual contracts - 500 m-m
UDA:
Assistance to be defined through ongoing       Shortlist & TOR      Nov 1990
study - 50 m-m                                Invite proposals    Dec 1990
Sign contract       May 1991
ATC:
Management assistance for ATC's operations   Shortlist & TOR       Apr 1990
in cost accounting and pricing, marketing,   Invite proposals    May 1990
computing and training - 150 m-m               Sign contract       Oct 1990



- 119 -
Annex 4-10
Page 3 of 5
STUDIES & VORKS SUPERVISION
Tanzam pavement management and detailed        Invite proposals    Completed
engineering for Section VI, including          Sign contract       Apr 1990
works supervision
Plant pool study to determine requirements   Invite proposals    Completed
for establishing MCW and private plant         Sign contract       Apr 1990
pools, including prequalification and
bidding documents
Trurk road bridge and ferry crossings          Shortlist firms     Apr 1990
detailed engineering - 2-3 packages,           Invite proposals    Apr 1990
including works supervision                    Sign contracts      Sep 1990
Mwanza - Usagara - Nzega detailed              Shortlist firms      Apr 1990
engineering, including works                   Invite proposals    Apr 1990
supervision                                    Sign contract       Sep 1990
Supervisiot of third year trunk                Shortlist & TOR     Apr 1991
gravel road rehabilitation program             Invite proposals    May 1991
Sign contracts      Oct 1991
Building renovation and housing                Shortlist & TOR     May 1990
Invite proposals    Jun 1990
Sign contracts      Nov 1990
Office technology and communications           Shortlist & TOR     May 1990
Invite proposals    Jun 1990
3ign contracts      Nov 1990
CML financial autonomy study                   Shortlist & TOR     Mar 1991
Invite proposals    Apr 1991
Sign contract       Sep 1991
Other transport sector studies                 Shortlist & TOR      Open



120 -
Annex 4-10
Page 4 of 5
CIVIL AND BUILDING WORKS
Trunk Road Rehabilitation and Upgrading:
Second year program:                          Prequalification    Completed
Lusahunga - Usagara, Tunduma - Luichi,        Bidding documents   Mar 1990
Shelui - Bereku (ICB)                         Invite bids          Apr 1990
Sign contracts      Jan 1991
Third year program:                           Prequalification    Nov 1990
Dodoma - Singida, Tabora - Singida border    Bidding documents   Dec 1990
(ICB)                                         Invite bids          Jan 1991
Sign contracts      Oct 1991
Fourth year programt                          Prequalification    Nov 1990
TANZAM Section VI and reseal,                 Bidding documents   Oct 1991
Mwanza - Usagara - Nzega (ICB)                Invite bids          Nov 1991
Sign contracts      Aug 1992
Trunk Road Bridges and Ferry Crossings:
Packages regionally grouped (ICB)             Prequalification    Nov 1990
Bidding documents   Oct 1991
Invite bids         Nov 1991
Sign contracts      Aug 1992
Building renovations and housing              Prequalification    Mar 1991
Bidding documents   May 1991
Invite bids         May 1991
Sign contracts      Nov 1991
MaINTENANCE PROGRAM
Procurement Arent:
Spare parts pIrchases for MCW equipment       Invite proposals    Completed
rehabilitation and maintenance                Sign contract        Apr 1990
Road Equipment for MOW Plant Pools
Procurement of support equipment              Bidding documents   Aug 1990
and vehicles (ICB)                            Invite bids          Oct 1990
Sign contracts      Apr 1991
Road Equipment for Private Plant Pools:
Procurement of equipment, vehicles and        Prequalification    Aug 1990
workshop iteme, including establishment       Bidding documents   Aug 1990
o.2 hire rates (ICB)                          Invite bids          Oct 1990
Sign contracts      Apr 1991
MCW Road Equipment Rehabilitation:
Procurement of spare parts and contracts      Parts shopping       Open
with private garages, as continuation         Contracting          Open
of program started under Sixth Highway



- 121
Annex '-l0
Page 5 of 5
Contracted Road Maintenance & Emergency Workst
REO contracting up to USS1.0 million and      Prequalification    Jun 1990
MCW contracting up to US$3.0 million, for    Bidding documents   Jun 1990
works and maintenance, including consultants Invite bids           Jul 1990
services for detailed engineering and works  First contracts       Nov 1991
supervision (LCB); continuous Implementation
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
Laboratory equipment for CML                  Bidding documents   Jun 1990
Workshop service vehicles for MCW regions    Invite bids           Jul 1990
Road equipment for 8 local contractors        First contracts      Nov 1991
Road equipment for 6 labor-based contractors
Road equipment for MCTI training
Communications and office equipment for
MCW headquarters and REOs
Vehicle weighing and road safety control
Training equipment for NIT
Source MCW and Mission
AF6IN



- 123 -
Annex 4-11
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiecsl Year             Quarterly                   Cumulative
and Quarter Ending          Disburements                Dieburnemente
FY1990/91
December 81, 1990               1.50                        1.60
March 81, 1991                  8.00                        9.60
June 80, 1991                   8.48    12.93              12.98
FY1991/92
September 80, 1991              8.48                       18.88
December 81, 1991               8.68                       24.94
March 81, 1992                  8.58                       88.61
June 80, 1992                   7.72    28.80              4.28
FY1992/98
September 80, 1992              7.72                       48.95
December 81, 1992               8.58                       57.62
March 81, 1993                  8.57                       6.16
June 80, 1998                   9.48    84.86              76.58
FY1993/94
September 80, 1998              9.48                       84.96
Decaumber 81, 1998             10.29                       96.26
March 81, 1994                 10.29                      106.64
June 80, 1994                   8.57    88.69             114.12
FY1994/96
September 80, 1994              0.66                      122.69
December 81, 1994               0.00                      128.69
March 81, 1995                  6.00                      184.70
June  0, 1995                   7.72    28.80             142.41
FY1995/96
September 80, 1996              7.72                      150.18
December 81, 1995               5.16                      156.28
March 81, 1996                  6.14                      160.42
June so, 1998                   8.48    21.44             168.85
FY1998/97
September 86, 1098              8.48                      167.28
Decivwber 81, 1996              3.48                      170.71
March 81, 1997                  8.48                      174.14
June 80, 1997                   1.72    12.00             175.86
FY1997/98
September 80, 1997              1.72                      177.67
Docember 81, 1997               1.72                      179.29
March 81, 1999                  1.72     5.16             181.00
Closing Date: June 80, 1998
Source: Standard Disbureemnt ProfTle,  April 22, 1999



- 125 -
Anes 4-12
Page 1 of 2
TANZAIIA
INTEGRATED RoADS PROJECT
PARTICI'ATION OF WOMEN IN ROAD MANNENUANCE
Recommended Guidelines
The following recommended guidelines are extracted from a study prepared
by IDSWSG for NORAD in March, 1987, based on Rural Roads Maintenance Program
(RRMP) in Mbeya and Tanga Regions. Implementation of these guidelines will be
included in Terms of Reference for technical   assistance to all Regional
Engineer's Offices.
A.    Those related to recruitment
1.    Women should be recruited as road-attendants.
2.    A quota system of 50Z should be adopted in the employmelt process to make
the ratio between males and females l1l. The situation in Tanga during 1988189
showed that female employment on RRPM had increased to about 35%, a notable
increase over the 62 in early 1987.
3.    Efforts should be made to involve female representatives during the
recruitment process.
4.    Village leaders should be involved during the recruitment exercise.
5.    Before recruitment, general regulations and terms of employment should be
explained to the potential road attendants.
B.    Those related to orUgnizgtion of work
6.    The work should be organized in groups, but each village should be
approached to express its own preference as to what type of groups is more
appreciated.
7.    Women should be allowed to participate in group leadership.
8.    A part-time female coordinator should be employed at the REO to deal with
the affsirs of female employees on road maintenance.
9.    Arrangements should be made for married women to work within their village
of residence and if it absolutely necessary for them to work outside the village,
transport should be provided to ferry them to and from the work-sites.



- 126 -
Annex 4-12
Page 2 of 2
10.   Women should be given opportunity to choose whether to work part-time or
full-time, although the majority are expected to prefer to work full-time (in
order to get the full pay).
11.   Payment should be direct to the employee without using a middle man/woman,
and it should be paid on a monthly basis.
C.    Those related to social services
12.   Day-care centres/nursery schools should be established in every village
to cater for the REO employees and other villagers, and both the REO and the
employees should contribute to the running costs. The REO for instance could
assist in erecting the building. Such centres should operate the whole day to
the convenience of the working mothers.
13.   Assistance for the provision of clean and safe water should be rendered
to those villages which are desperately in need, and appropriate technology
should be adopted in this respect.
14.   The REO should try to see how it can best offer medical services to
employees. First-aid boxes or small 'treating centresl could be established at
a central part to offer medical services to REO employees.
15.   REOs should assist in transporting essential commodities to the established
UWT and other shops in the villages.
16.   Workshops, seminars and study tours between districts and regions should
be arranged for REO employees and women in particular to enhance exchange of
experiences and ideas.
17.   Boots, rain-coats and whenever necessary bicycles, should be provided to
road-attendants, and efforts should be made to provide female road-attendants
with the aipropriate bicycles.



-  127  -                                      mm8-I
T/  IG                                 Pae of S
DfEWATW ROADS ttECT
ANALYSIS OF etttIC FEMIUILIM
SGIT?mV1Y ANALYSIS
LtTH      WE6lC COST  tFIRT YR LAST VR 9          Cont Coat b Traffic
ROAD AMIE                ROAD SWTION           00  (rSh ell) (US$ '00)   ADOT    A4AtT     (       *) 2t    Growh    Com inod
PAVED TRt ROADS
1. Frert Year Program
(1) cho.ins-Segers        Chatinie - bnga         9e.0  2,660.e 22,004.8        28      640  d16.0      11.0        11.4      9.6
hng - sg                 60.9  2.9m6.8 22,=0.0       169      480   19.1      11.2       11.?       9.8
- - - ---   -- -- ---  -- -- ---
178.9  8.77.4 44,884.6
(2) S.gor.  - Tong.       Seg' - *hoi              84.9  1,8t.8  14,878.1       76T    460   12.s        8.8        14.1     12.8
tihe  - Tangs            86.7  1,660.4  12,928.2     442    1t00   16.8       18.8        8.9       7.8
71.8  8,48.9 27,299.2
(8) Soo* - Mimo Jct.      Some - Hanea             88.6    870.9  6,899.2       241     600   22.8      14.7        14.9     12.9
"Senga - H;.o Jet.       28.9   1122.9  8.687.7      486    1080   16.8       18.2       18.8      11.7
81.7  1.998.8  18,=88.9
(4) Segara - See         Segre  - Kerogr          20.7    696.4  8,S72.8       280     600   20.8      1.3         13.7     11.9
Kcraqw* - m.bo           42.8  1,864.2  14,493.8     2        8 S0   21.2     11.9       12.6      10.6
htabo - se              116.6  1,228.2  9.447.7      204      800   1s.7      12.9       18.0      it U
_-- - - --   -- -- ---  -- -- ---
179.6  8,610.6  29,818.8
(6) 6,jhoba - leak*        ukab - ek. t            118 0          40,000.0                        ?
(6) Oodme - Mtera         Dodtn  -   tar           1.0  8,4.9  12,600.0         1o      87    14.8      11.9        11.6     10.2
(7) Songee  - Makeakbo    Saneg. -  1kaabako      298.0            2,c00.8
It. Secod Yeaor Prog,rm
(1) TANZAt - Section VI                            74.0            1.8,00.0     208     e80   28.0      16.9        18.4     16.1
(2) TANZAN R*-al         T7WtM Reea I             8O.0            10,000.0                        t
(3) Ibanda - Uyole        Ibends - tyole           96.0  1,608.8  13,910.0                     1d.0     10.7        10.4      9.1
(4) Mim Jet - KIA Jet     Hi No Jet. - wash;       22.2    998.1  7,07.7    1066    2480   24.6         20.2        19.7     17.2
:-; - KIA Jct.           88.8  1,464.6  11,266.2    los1    28S0   28.7       21.1       20.6      18.0
87.8  2,482.7  18,948.6
(s) KIA Jct - Ameaha      KIA Jet. - Ar,ah         41.8  1,740.0  18,884.6    1244    2700   26.8       28.4       22.8      20.0
(6) Man.. - USager.       W.nza  L Uagare          22.8    708.6  86,412.8     826    1S0    28.8       28.4       22.8      20.0
(7) L;nd;-iMngoyo-Mtmora   ltare - M;tknd*n;        14.9    260.0  1,928.1      686    6le9   19.8      16.0        18.6     13.7
Mikindani - Mingoo       68.1    898.0  4,600.0      286      782    8.0       6.6        6.4       8.6
Mingaoy  - Lindi         28.0    420.0  7.076.9  S07          m76   14.1      11.6       11.8       9.9
108.0  1,768.0  18,600.0
(6) Kobero - Me k.enze    Kobero - he.Lks.nzs      60.0            21,000.0                       7
(9) Kib;ti -   -monga,    Kibiti -    sog          68.0           24,000.0                        t
(10) osh - Segaeyo         Kanyatta o,. - LWI Jc    9.8    888.0  4,115.4   16680   82000  198.0         41.0       40.0      40.0
WlSN Jct. - Kunduchi      7.6    244.0  1,876.9    s806   2S000  8s8.O        41.0       40.0      40.0
Kunduchi - suniu         17.1    161.0  1,288.8      6O      4490   61.0      80.0       48.8      42.7
3unju - Dagams           88.6    819.0  2,488.6      400    1780   61.0       80.0       46.8      42.7
_-- -- -- _- -- -- -_- -
67.6  1,289.0  9,684. 6
III. Third Year Program
(1) Himeo Jet - To-eta    Tvaeta Jct. - Mime        8.7    182.0  1,018.4    1888    4881   11.9         9.8         9.8      8.8
Nimo - Kenya srd         10.6    260.4  2,008.1    9e2    268?   16.7         15.8       18.0      18.1
14.8    892.4  8,018.5
(2) Mingeyo - KWei        mingoy.o -  ei           1168.8    820.0  2,481.8     888     968   16.6      18.0        18.4     11.8
(8) H.**t   - Si r;r      Mumome - Sir nl         114.0  8,480.0  8,o000.0     225      628   25.9      21.2       20.7      16.1
(4) OSA - K.;iti          K;b.da Jct - Kibiti      119.2  I,868.0  10,668.6     201     070   W8.2      29.7        29.0     28.3
(8) Klrogoro - Dodod_     Norogoro - Negate        80.6    188.0  1,176.9    S16    2601   26.0        21.8        20.6     16.2
"Bgole - Omiro           69.4    168.2  1,270.6      871    8901   29.0       28.6       28.2      20.8
Cairo - Konee            62.0    198.0  1,800.0      267    186S   26.1       28.0       22.8      19.7
Kong.. - Oodod.          68.7    218.0 o   1,688.6   494    2668   41.6       84.8       88.4      29.3
218.7    726.2  8,801.8
IV. FourtI Year Proram
(1) Nhn:. - Ntangugr      Mwen.. - 1b ngue         84.0    960.6  7,869.2    1011    S006   56.7        48.6        45.4     39.7
(2) Nutukula-Bukct-bNleba  ltutkule - Kj,sks       26.8    200.1    909.8        26      54    7.9       6.5         6.8      S.S
Kyak - -ukoa             80.0  1,419.4  0.451.8      177      82   22.6       18.8       18.1      18.6
6ukabe -  bulae          66.0  1,228.0  8.890.8    s86        698   29.s      24.4       28.6      20.9
__- _-------  -------
148.3  2,849.4  12,981.6
(3) Aruaha - Nnemnga      Aruoha  - 0beti Jct.      9.2    277.7  2,186.2    2888   10218   26.0        21.8       20.8      18.2
3abati Jct. - Arush     9e8.6    198.8  1,802.8      268    1048   18.8       18.4       18.0      18.2
100.0    478.0  8,68s.8
ItI@ffD AVEAOE Dwt                                                   28.8     16.6        18.8     16.0



mm~ 8-1
-  128  -                                       PgoafS
66fIYITVrY ANALYSIS
LENTH     ilU4C COST  FIMT YR UST VR           iR Canet Cost Nlo Traffic
ROaD  AME                 ROAD SECIO            001) (Ik ell) (OM3 t00)  ADT    AAT          (S)   +255      Oraeth    Combined
C0RAVB 7RU"t ROADS
l. First Year Program
(1) Lueuhunta - Umugara    6iherauulo - Luashunfga    89.6    240.1  1.091.4      S1       98   86.1      E.7        28.2      24.2
Ibitu - Umagara          100.9     80.8  1,680.8      172             26.0     22.1        20.0     17.4
140.8    27.9  2.971.9
(2) tundua - Luich*       Tundum - Su mbanga       287.0  8,848.0  0,478.0        72      2M    20.8      17.7        16.2     15.9
(8) ShBlui-Snlgde-Oererou  Shelui - SWnaide        11S.4         t  4,816.4      106             9.1       7.7        7.1       6.1
Singida - Aruaha Ord     16.5         t  2,180.6                        t
Aruseh  Brd - Baati      14.S         t  8,977.7      107             22.0     16.7        17.2     14.7
eubItl - DOdu_ Ord        8.0         t  1,85.1       214             18.0     12.8        11.7     10.1
810.0        t 11,7".8
(4) Usagars - Neea        Nae_  - Shinyauga         77.0  8,003.0  2,134.S       209      819   26.4      22.4       20.6      17.7
Shinymnas - Imanza       157.0  6,487.0  4,062.7      192      477   24.7      21.0        19.8     1.S
Z84.0  9,44O.0  6,407.8
IU. Scd Year Prorea
(1) Dodea-Itigi-Sinagda   DOdaes - Sngida          248.0            9,968.0    lS        270    9.1       7.7        7.1       6.1
(2) Taboa-#a-Slngida   I4ea - Slgeida Ord          106.8  2,106.1  8,978.9       1ss      8M   211.4      42.5       89.0       Ws.8
Nzeg  - Tabora           117.8    t       4,8S.6                 ? t
-24.0  2,108.1  S,862.5
(8) Sung.. - Namie        N e - Nuo a6.7                       2.7    194.8       78      148   14.6      12.8        11.8      9.9
Nknuanb - Neatu40@       848.2    101.9  1,728.8       20       87    0.8       0.7         0.6      0.6
Nhsluemb - Sang          77.1      87.0    886.9       92      171   10.9      16.0        14.7     12.6
469.0    141.6  2,808.0
(4) Song" - binga         S_ne- - Ninbr             96.0    477.6  8,675.0                 ?       t
(8) NJoehb-wulesngelt-dba  NJaub*-"wlangal-Nd.bs    91.0    448.6  6,412.8                  t      T
SII. Third Year Program
(1) NinJinmu-3.bati-Kendon  Ninjlngu-batli-Kndae    107.0    621.6  4,012.8                 t      t
(2) Nikuil - Ilt.kra      Hikum; - liakara         104.0  1,910.0  0,681.6       241      251   21.1      17.9        16.8     14.1
IV. Fourth Year Program
(1) Itera - 1reings       Nera - Iringa            128.0  1,910.0  4,800.0                 t       t
(2) boys - Nakongolowl    "WY* - Nea&gaoai}        101.2  2,498.1  11,882.8      149      407   56.2      49.5        46.4     39.0
(8) Mnuleba - biharamulo    Hwlb* -  ibaraeula     96.s    818.7  2,868.0        10       84    4.4       8.7        8.4       2.9
8964.6                     88.0               108.8    18.6        14.3     12.8
0
VEIGHTED AVE338E 12:                                                  10.0     18.6        14.8     12.3



x4" 8-1
-  129  -                                       Pos a of a
SoENrXrVm LYUSZ
iBFi      ENltl1C COST  F12   R VA    'yR    It Cons Ceot No Traffic
ROAD NAME                ROAD S         m      (oF0  (TSh oi) (USN 'OOM)  AOT    A4W        (5)   .265      Gram"      Combined
fTHER STUDIEAND THIM RESILTS
Mtwara - Songoa             ltwure - Mingoio          81.0    682.1               182     281   14.4
Mingoyo -  Heai       le.8    815.4                224      415   14.4
199.8    467.8
Dodoms - Mvenah             Singida - NZOga          216.0  8,748.0               176     484   11.9
Nyakanzazi - Kigos          Nyakanaul - Kaulu        262.0    468.6  2,10.s9       12      21   11.9
Ktaulu - Kioua           91.1  2,0654.8  9,888.6      18      229   15.8
828.1  2,828.8  11.489.5,
Mpanda - Sumbawangs         nymnda - Chate           171.2    844.1  1,864.1       1s      S8   14.8
Chalt - Sumbawanga       91.1    241.2  1,096.4       aS       90   28.1
262.8    585.8  2,t6so.
Kakonglolmi - Runga         Ibkongolo i - Rung..    181.2  8,967.4  I0.' 18.6      S2     loo    8.8
Rungus-Ipole-Tabort Rungo  - lpole                   166.7  8,206.0 14,572.7       24      79    2.6
Ipola - Tubora           92.8  1,761.8  6,08.8        44 60         t 11.0
281.0  4,987.8  22,669.5
Rung. - Itigi               Rungu - Itigi            194.8  8,612.7  16,421.4      17      6t    0.4
Shinyangs - Tabora          Shinyangn - Tabora        48.6    944.4  4,279.1      248     614  400.0
Makuyuni - Otdeani         Hlkuyuni - Oldeeni         t2.0  8,787.0  17,077.a     429     4t9   19.0
Nangurukuru - Lindi         Nangunukuru - Lindi      16. 1    516.0  2,848.8       77      81   11.7
Kilindoni-Mafia Lodge       Kitlindon-Mefias Lodge    14.2    160.0    727.8       70      78    3.?
Lunahunms - Ruoumo          Luaahungp - Rwuwo         91.6    a10.8  1,866.9      119     865   15.0
DSH - Kibiti                Bandari Str.Port ac.,   8.1        78.0    876.9   S80    1SO00   84.7
Port Acceso - Kibada Jc   :.I.4    872.0  2,861.8    8900   18000  146.0
.4.8    447.0  8,486.8                    61.4



- 131                                           ANNEX 6-2
Pagg 1 of 2
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION: REGIONAL ROADS
_________ _ -_   _--  - -___-____ ___
COST OF     COST OF               SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
LENGTH       REHAB       REHAB      IRR Const. Cost No Traffic
REGION        DISTRICT      ROAD       (KU)  ('000 TSh)  ('000 TSh)      (X)     +25      Growth      Combined
---    -----             -        ---- -----       -   -----       --   -  -- - --   -----  -------
KAGERA        Karagw.          1        61.8      14,049          746    49.8        42.8     88.8         33.4
6        47.1      16,156         878    49.6         42.2    a8.7          88.2
Bukoba          2        58.2       18,828         809    48.2        41.0    37.8          32.3
a        44.7      15,820         492    48.3         88.0     83.8         29.0
5        14.0       4,876         168    51.1         48.4     89.9        84.2
Muloba          4         8.4        4,133         121    45.7        38.8      85.6        80.6
7         2.8         833          17    64.6         46.4    42.6          36.6
8        24.7       6,971         858    46.4         89.4     86.2         81.1
Biharamulo      8          18        6,210         137    48.0        40.8      87.4        32.2
MWANZA        Kuimba           1        85.1      17,600         s8e    20.0         17.0     16.8         13.4
2        48.8      18,206         515    41.8         35.4     82.4        27.9
5        28.4      12,854         812    31.6         28.9     24.6        21.2
Sa         6.8       2,529           75    25.1        21.8     19.6         16.8
3+4       81.2      11,649         281    48.8         87.2     84.2         29.3
i5Sa       85.2      165,83         317    80.7         26.1     28.9         20.6
SHINYANGA     Kahama           1        29.0       8,768         819    87.1         81.5     28.9        24.9
6         9.7       8,600          87    28.2         24.0     22.0         18.9
8         6.8       2,595          57    86.3         80.9     28.8        24.3
Shinyanga       1        S8.0       17,801         396    28.0        28.8      21.8        18.8
2        27.8      28,307         898    21.1         17.9     16.5         14.1
s        53.8      17,886         586    48.0        U8.6    88.5          28.8
9        37.4      16,199         411    80.6         28.0     23.9        20.5
8+4       72.2      27,276         794    84.2         29.1     26.7         22.9
2        79.1      26,093         870    29.1         24.7     22.7         19.6
7        51.2      19.895         568    23.8         20.2     10.6         16.9
9        17.9      10,280         197    26.4         22.4     20.8         17.7
1+7       78.2      28,654         805    29.0         24.7     22.6        19.4
KILIMANJARO   Hal              1        18.8       6,194         448    44.1         87.5     34.4        29.5
2         7.9       2,841         3860    51.6        48.9     40.2        84.6
8         3.1       2,851         919    52.9         45.0     41.8        85.4
4        12.4       8,284         518    55.1         48.8     48.0         86.9
Moshi          1+2       19.7       11,718         595    49.8        42.8    a8.8         83.4
5         4.4       2,817         595    41.0         84.9     82.0        27.5
6         6.2       4,440         718    44.4         87.7     84.6        29.7
7         8.7        2201         594    46.8        389.      88.5        81.4
8        10.4       4,320         415    39.7         88.7    81.0          26.6
11         7.8       2,659         860    47.3         40.2     Bs.9        31.7
13         8.7       2,684         297    49.8         41.9     86.5        33.0
1S         1.4         670         478    49.8         42.8     88.8         33.4
16         2.7       1,460         687    48.8         89.8     86.5        31.4
17         2.5         521         209   568.1         47.7     43.8        37.6
18         2.8         818         292    60.2         42.7     89.2         83.6
Rambo           1         4.9        1,279         261    49.3        41.9    38.6          88.0
2         2.4       1,711         713    47.3         40.2     88.9         81.7
4         1.4         884         275    60.1         51.1    46.9          40.3
6         1.6         829         208    68.8         58.1     58.8         45.8
7         4.5      38,18          697    48.4         88.9     88.9         29.1
Uwanga          2         5.4        4,008         741    29.3        24.9      22.9        19.6



- 132 -
ANNEX 6-2
==
Pae. 2 of 2
COST OF    COST OF              SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
LENGTH      REHAB      RENAS    IRM Const. Cost No Traffic
REGION       DISTRICT     ROAD      (Ki)  ('M TSh) ("Om TSh)    (N)    *26         Growth    Combined
UDEYA         bowxi         I        5.0       1,429         45   49.0        84.0    81.2       26.8
2       11.4      8,847        1UN    29.2       24.6    22.8        19.6
to          8       Oslo         72   2.0         26.2    28.1        19.8
a        1.9        769         17   49.4        42.0    88.6        88.1
4        4.2      I,6m4          88   46.5       89.5    8.8         31.2
la        4.6       180S         41   48.6        41.8    87.9        32.6
6        7.8       1944         56   68.5        46.5    41.7        86.8
8.9.10       27       "69         243   89.0        88.2    ao.4        28.1
11.12.12.   14.2      8,157        210   44.7        88.6    a4.9        29.9
14        4.8       2667         89   84.6        29.4    27.0        23.2
1S        8.6      1,492         27   46.8        89.4   U8.1         31.0
17        6.7      8,686         51   84.6        29.6    27.1        23.8
20.21+22    18.8     16,226        16    8.9         28.8    26.4        22.7
28.24.27    88.7     16,686        812   44.6        87.4    u4.8        29.5
26        7.1      2,888         04   87.6        81.5    28.9        24.8
Ky*ia          2        7.4      7,774         68   12.8         16.9    10.0        8.8
4        8.4      1,S85         81   21.1        17.9    16.5        14.1
7       14.0      8,268        126   29.0        26.2    28.1        19.8
iRINA        liiutIndi      1       18.0      8,462         162   S4.6       40.8    42.6        36.6
4        5.9      1,291         58   62.6        44.2    46.6        34.8
Njambe         5        7.0      2,245         68   46.4        89.4    86.2        81.1
6       10.0      4,60W        98   45.1         88.8    86.2        80.2
9.8      2,120         88   46.9        89.9    86.6        81.4
11.       2.6        922         28   49.2        41.0    86.4        33.0
RUVUMA       Song.          2        9.4       2,830         96   45.8        86.9    86.7       80.7
8       10.5      2,700         95   88.6        82.8    80.1        25.9
6       24.0      6,712         216   81.8       80.4    27.9        24.0
7        8.0      2,278         9#   87.8        81.7    29.1        25.6
14       10.9      4,672        9s   81.8         28.6    24.4        21.6
Mbinge     2.2*/b#S    42.6     18,178        469   41.9        85.0    82.7        28.1
so       10.4      6,209        114   88.8        88.0    86.8        26.9
S8+b      86.6     20,958        402   89.0        88.2    86.4        26.1
6       20.7     16,444         228   41.7       86.4    82.5        27.9
Sc        4.4      2,688         48   47.0        40.6    86.7        81.5
Sd        2.6        G66         22   61.6        48.4    89.8        84.2
TOTAL               1,484,8    689,868      26,184
WEIGHTED AVERAGE LRR:                                87.1       81.5    26.9        24.8
-  =~~~~~



M
MAP SECTION



%. To Ki'i"iT                                  os'k
K_36,                                                                        T K y  r                                                                 UGANDA
r Kyobo            * RUKORA                   OMA   M                                             FJROBI                                 /KENYA
'AN DA                                                              MAI                       |WA DA
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~d                                                      N l o < / 2gtjnu\k  
N ERUN DI,'
KENYA /IO A <  UH  \                     TANZANIA
/N,ohItan.a~~~~~~~~~~S                  09              di                                                                                                                  ES Ut
11*101,     d.o         OSHI  =T_Sl ZAMBIA                                                         -,
RuIet on \ gs/  SHINGIDG                                                                                             To /olndi                         MZ ABIQU0E
fyElbWA  ; ondo                     a                                       S          e                   EAM'-                                                        0 H91TTO/PRD
/IKIGOMA                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
INTEGRATED
ROADS PROJECT
KoRogose       QTANGA                     CORE REGIONS
j:M8A  8 iA    ZONE WORKSHOPS
lpole  ltigi                                                               ISLAND          FIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECN YEAR PROGRAM&
Z ) \ 2 J MBEYA / y okoro / NyomwIB>MA  REHAILITATION/LIPGRADE
THIRD YEAR PROGRAM:
RUKWA                                                                                                                    IA ~S SALAAM          REHABILTATIONBUPGRADE
Meek 4~~~~~~          RESEAU/IMPROVE
FOURTH YEAR PROGRAM;
I R E   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~ REHABILITATION/UPGRADE
GA                    !bltl                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED TRUNK ROADS
sums.    L.iche  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____UNPAVED TRtUNK RCADS
BEYA                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAFFA  -+----RAILROADS
4ako.901i Mon,   PORTS
CZ4    AIRPORTS
0io K40e       E      O t20IdOLAKE SERVICES [FERRIES)
o    SELECTED TOWNS
* REGION HEADQUARTERtS
* NATIONAL CAPITALS
REGION BOUNDARIES
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
OooT                                                                 /r                          >-_' A I  O Z A M B I Q U E o                                                            MAY
L  I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
MAY



