Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    20332
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2149-TA)
April 20, 2000
AFT: Transport 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 31, 1990)
SDR 1.0 = US$1.29; US$ 1.0= SDR 0.78
Tsh 1.0 = US$ 0.005; US$ 1.0 = Tsh 200
(As of June 30,1999)
SDR 1.0 = US$1.20; US$ 1.0= SDR 0.83
Tsh 1.0 = US$0.001; US$ 1.0 = Tsh 716
Currency Unit
Tanzanian Shilling
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
ATAP                 Agricultural Transport Assistance Program
CODAP                Coordination Office for Donor Assisted Projects
CRRP                 Core Rural Roads Program
DANIDA               Danish International Development Agency
EIRR                 Economic Rate of Return
ERP                  Economic Recovery Program
EU                   European Union
FINNIDA              Finish International Development Agency
GOT                  Government of Tanzania
GTZ                  Deuche Gesellchaft fur Technishe Zusammenarbeit
IDA                  International Development Association
IRP 1, 11            Integrated Roads Project 1, II
MCT                  Ministry of Communications and Works
MCWT                 Ministry of Communications Works and Transport
MOW                  Ministry of Works
NORAD                Norwegian Agency for Development Co-operation
NTC                  National Transport Agency
PEHCOL               Plant and Equipment Hire Company Limited
RETCO                Regional Transport Company Ltd.
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
TANRROADS            National Roads Agency
TANZAM               Tanzania-Zambia
UDR                  Shirika la Usafari Dar es Salaam Ltd.
UNCDF                United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:                   Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:                 James W. Adams, AFMTZ
Sector Manager:                   Yusupha Crookes, AFTT1
Task Manager:                     Yitzhak Kamhi, AFTTI



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                Preface
Implementation Completion Report
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
(Credit 2149-TA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Roads Project (Credit -
2194-TA) to The United Republic of Tanzania for which SDR 139.9 million (US$180.4 million equivalent)
was approved on May 31,1990 and made effective on March 15,1991.
The Credit 2149-TA was partially closed on June 30, 1998, the original closing date. It was fully
closed on June 30, 1999 after a year extension from the original closing date of June 30, 1998. Sixteen
donors provided parallel financing for the project. Final disbursement of IDA credit was made on
December 13, 1999. A total of USD 31,165,978.54 equivalent (SDR 22,695,381.36) was cancelled from
the credit on December 21, 1999.
Yitzhak Kamhi, Task Team Leader (AFTT1) and Ephrem Asebe (consultant) prepared the ICR.
The ICR was reviewed by Messrs. James W. Adams, Country Director for Tanzania, and Yusupha
Crookes, Sector Manager, Africa Region.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's ICR mission in November 1999. It is based on
material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating its views as
reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire (Annex A), and by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution (Annex C). Annex B also includes the views of some co-financiers.






FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PAGE No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...........................................................  i-V
PART l:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................................                                      1
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ...........................                               ................................  I
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................                                   3
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE  PROJECT  ............................................                              ...............  9
D.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ...........................................................  11
E.   BANK PERFORMANCE  ........................................................... 11
F.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ...........................................................  13
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...........................................................  14
H.  FUTURE OPERATIONS ...........................................................  14
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED .                     -         ............................................................ 15
PART II:   STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................................................  17
TABLE 1:    SUMMARYOFASSESSMENTS ....................                                   ....................................... 17
TABLE 2:    RELATED BANK LOANSICREDITS  ..............................                             .............................  18
TABLE 3:    PROJECT TIMETABLE  ...........................................................  19
TABLE 4:    LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL ..........                                            .......... 19
TABLE 5A:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ................................ ................ 20
TRAINING UNDER IDA CREDIT
TABLE 5B:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ................................................  21
STATUS OF TRAINED STAFF UNDER IDA CREDIT
TABLE 5C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION: PEHCOL ................................ 21
TABLE 5D:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ................................................  21
ROAD FUND EXPENDITURE ON ROADS
TABLE 6A:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  .......................................................  22
ROADS CONDITION & TARGET ACHIEVEMENTS
TABLE 6B:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  .......................................................  23
TRUNK ROAD OPERATIONAL PLAN AND BUDGET
TABLE 6C:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  .......................................................  23
RURAL ROADS OPERATIONAL BUDGET AND PLAN
TABLE 7:    STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT: IDA  COMPONENTS  ............................. ............... 24
TABLE 8A:  PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION) ......................                                 .................................  24
TABLE 8B:  PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION) ..................................                               .....................  25
TABLE 9:    ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .......................................................                                    25
TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .......................................................                                       26
TABLE 11:  COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ...................                                       ................... 28
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS  .........................                                .............................. 28
TABLE 13:  BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .................                                  ...................................... 29
This document (Las a resticted distribution and may be used by recipiens only in the
pearfogrmnce of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizadion.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                                                 Page 2
Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX A:    SUPPLEMENTARY STATISTICS .............................................                                     34
TABLE 1:        REALLOCATION OF IDA CREDIT  ..............                  .........................................   34
TABLE 2:        STATUS OF IDA FINANCED COMPONENT AS OF PROJECT CLOSING .............                     ................... 35
TABLE 3:        PROJECT COSTS OF IDA AND OTHER DONORS ......................                   .......................  37
ANNEX B:    ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .............................................   38
ANNEX C:    BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION AND COMMENTS TO ICR  .............................................  43
MAPS:  IBRD No. 22067



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page i
Implementation Completion Report                                       Evaluation Summary
EVALUATION SUMMARY
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Integrated Roads Project
(Credit 2149-TA)
Introduction
i.   Background. With an estimated project cost of US$ 871 million, the Integrated Roads Project
I (IRP I) was the largest single road program in the sector in Sub-Sahara Africa. It was a bold
experiment in the sector and represented major breaks in the ways road sector projects were
designed in the Bank. It pooled resources with parallel financing from IDA, and 15 other donor
agencies:-AfDF, UNDP, EEC, DANIDA, Republic of Germany, Italy, FINNDA, ODA (UK), NORAD,
USAID, The Netherlands, Ireland, Switzerland, Saudi Fund and Kuwait Funds.
ii.   The project was launched in 1991 after three years of consultation, to overcome the impact of
the deteriorating road network in a context of the economic recovery program the country was then
undertaking. During the period, IDA was instrumental in assisting the Government of Tanzania
(GOT) to develop IRP I and had assumed responsibility of coordinating donors' assistance. This
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of Integrated Road Project I attempts to sum up the major
lessons leamed from implementing the Project. The scope of this ICR is limited to an assessment of
IDA financed component of IRP I. Reference to the total project is made where it is essential to the
overall understanding of the IDA component.
Bank Project
iii.  Project Objective. As outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 8367-TA, the main objectives
of IRP were to: (i) develop MCWT's institutional capacity to manage the networks'; and (ii) restore
Tanzania's trunk and regional roads networks, which were obstacles to the sustainability of the
economic recovery program.
iv.  Project Components. The project was to provide financial assistance for (i) institutional
support to strengthen road management capacity of the MCWT; (ii) rehabilitation and improvement
program of about 4,600 km of trunk roads and 3000 km of regional roads in agriculturally productive
areas including related structures and bridges; (iii) road maintenance support to MCWT including
establishment of privately operated plant pools, and development of local constructing capacity to
undertake road works; and (iv) management assistance to Air Tanzania Corporation and the
National Transport Corporation.
v.     Project Covenants. The critical agreements reached at negotiation were to (i) undertake
the main institutional and policy changes prior to project effectiveness, including (a) changes in the
procurement regulations, (b) appropriating the agreed road budget for the first year of project
implementation, and (c) reorganize the road administration; (ii) appropriating GOT agreed annual
road budget as a condition of IDA funding; (iii) complete engineering designs and technical
documentation for the first two years of the program prior to board presentation.
vi.    Project Evaluation. The Integrated Roads Project objectives were very important to the
people and Government of Tanzania, and were in line with IDA's sector priority for the country. The
design of the project was conceptually clear. The institutional objective was to address the long-term
sustainability of the project, while the physical objective was focused on the urgent task of
maintenance and rehabilitating the road network to enhance the economic recovery program. Major
challenges facing project design were defining an appropriate program size and finding the
appropriate tradeoffs between the two major objectives.  A key strategy adopted, to assure
sustainable of the outcomes of the project, was to address in parallel several development
objectives, including transformation of the ministry from blue collar to white collar organization,
1 That is, transform from blue collar to white collar organization.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                            Page ii
Implementation Completion Report                                    Evaluation Summary
development of a private construction industry, decentralization of the maintenance and rural roads
administration, training of manpower, establishment of road fund. But these added to the complexity
of the program and the operational strategy had to deal with tradeoffs.
Implementation
vii.   Achievement of the Program Objectives. There is no question that there have been
improvement in terms of reductions of transport cost and travel time mainly as result of improvement
of certain major links of the country. According to govemment statistics, in 1999 the actual
proportion in length of the trunk road network in good, fair and poor conditions were 30%, 39% and
30% of the total trunk roads respectively. This favorably compares to the SAR estimates for 1990/91,
the start of the project, which was 26%, 26% and 47% for good, fair and poor roads of the trunk road
network length respectively. Between 1990/91 and 1998199, the trunk road network had also
increased from 9,629 km to 10,203 km. However, the status of roads in good condition in 1999
which stood at 30% for the trunk roads was significantly below when compared to the appraisal
targets of 60% by mid-1996 and 80% by mid-2000. The current condition of rural roads is not know
as El Nino has damaged the road constructed. About 2000 km of rural roads were known to have
been rehabilitated by the donor community under the IRP I.
viii.  With respect to the physical achievement under IDA funding, initially a total of 910 km of
gravel roads were contracted out. About 683 km of gravel roads were constructed with cost overuns
ranging between 65% and 244%. Of the 683 km of constructed roads some 300 km was total loss
and some 266 was deteriorated within the first 13 months of construction. The Tanga-
Horohoro/Marangu-Tarakea road (118 km) was substantially completed and is now in reasonable
good condition; its EIRR is 29%. Regretfully, for the uncompleted and washed out components, the
investment value is practically lost, making re-estimation of ERR not worthwhile. Mwanza-Nzega
Road (54 km) is yet to be fully completed and no EIRR is estimated. Its designs were not updated
before signature of contracts. Field survey was poor and it suffered major claims related to payments
delays of GOT portion. The Kayaka bridge and approaches were completed. Implementation
experienced many failures of structures, approaches, temporary approaches and bridges. And
substantial additional works were carried out after commencement. Six of the seven packages in
Emergency Works for Dar es Salaam Roads were implemented. Poor surveys and designs,
frequent changes in scope of works resulted in poor quality of works and significant cost increases.
Some of the roads also disintegrated soon after completion. Under IDA funding periodic
maintenance and emergency works were carried out. The project also funded a portion of TANZAM
Highways sections 2, 4 & 5, which were rehabilitated under the Six Highway Rehabilitation Project
(Cr,1688-TA).
ix.   On the institutional front, modest progress has been made towards achieving some of the
institutional development objectives. A modest private construction industry has been created.
Road maintenance administration has been decentralized in 20 regions. The Road Fund established
under the project now can potentially provide some 70% of the required road maintenance funding.
Road maintenance expenditure made from the Road Fund has increased from US$7.24 million in
1991/92 to US$22.48 million in 1998/99. The National Road Agency was established in July 1999
and its chief executive took position in February 2000. Significant number of high level manpower
has been trained at home and abroad. WVith respect to liberalization, the Plant and Equipment Hire
Company is now in the process of privatization. Nevertheless, it is generally agreed by both MOW
and donors, that institutional issues, particularly contract administration and project management are
still major problems in efficiently managing the road network. Overall, the project achievement is
assessed as unsatisfactory.
x.   Cost and Implementation Time Schedule. At completion, the total funds expended on IRP I
was estimated at US$868.0 million including GOT contribution estimated at US$60.0 million.
US$166.7 million equivalent (SDR117.2 million) of IDA funds were disbursed and US$ 12.17 million
of the original estimates was cancelled along with US$ 19.0 million equivalent from exchange rate
savings. However, In spite of its limited impact the cost of institutional support was more than double



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page iii
Implementation Completion Report                                       Evaluation Summary
the appraisal estimates. This applied for both IDA and for the other donors. After allowing for
inflation, cost escalation for civil works ranged from 40% to over 125%.
xi.   Main Factors Affecting Implementation.  The factors which were partly outside the
government control and which affected the implementation of the project included: difficult
environment for implementation; inadequate design of the project; problems in donor coordination
and poor performance of consultants and contractors. The factors within the government's control
affecting implementation were: lack of good governance including instances of corrupt practices;
failure to apply lessons learned from preceding project implementation; lack of proactive response;
frequent reorganization of the implementing agencies; inadequate counterpart funding; and poor
staff incentives. Factors within the control of the implementing agencies included: substantive
changes in the scope of works without proper technical documentation and authorization by funding
agencies; prolonged procurement processing; deficient contract administration; and poor project and
financial management.
Results and Performance
xii.   Project Sustainability. Overall, the sustainability of the project is assessed as uncertain. It
appears that much longer time than originally planned is needed to assure sustainability.
Sustainability of the progress made with respect to institutional objective depends on the prevailing
environment, government commitment to maintenance-first policy, proactive leadership, the incentive
system to skilled manpower and on follow-up measures to consolidate the progress achieved to date
- road fund, road agency, etc. The sustainability of the commercialized activities under the
liberalization regime depends on the entrepreneurial abilities of the new contractors and their
financial capacities. The sustainability of the maintenance system introduced depends on the
performance of the economy to generate road fund revenue and eradication of corrupt practices.
xiii.   Bank Performance.  Bank performance in identification and preparation assistance is
assessed as satisfactory. IDA staff rightly identified that transport is the major problem facing the
Tanzanian economic recovery during its transition to market-oriented economy. During preparation
phase, IDA staff provided critical assistance to GOT in coordinating donor assistance and packaging
the program. Appraisal was insufficient with respect to considering the appropriate design options
for Tanzania, particularly on the scope of institutional reforms to be undertaken. Second, it was
known from earlier IDA financed road sector projects that there were major problems in performing
basic project activities. Appraisal, thus, did not fully address the major flaws experienced under the
Sixth Highway Credit; particularly in respect to contract administration and project and financial
management. Those errors were, therefore, repeated on a larger scale. Third, the risks due to lack
of incentives to staff to steer the project implementation was identified but an adequate sustainable
solution in the context of the civil services was not found.
xiv.   The overall assessment of supervision must be seen in the context of unduly ambitious and
optimistic project design; early successes following initial contract signatures and initial
improvements in road conditions; the unclear and conflicting role of the Principal Transport Engineer
(PTE) who was advising the government and the Bank management and staff at the same time, and
poor governance conditions in the country. Therefore, the implementation of the program basically
failed, particularly in the gravel road component, notwithstanding of the efforts of the supervision.
Hence, the Bank's supervision performance is rated as marginally unsatisfactory.
xv.    Borrower Performance. Borrower preparation is assessed  as satisfactory.   The
government's bold initiative in its Transport Sector Policy Paper and its Transport Recovery Program
and its ability to bring some 16 donors to agree in support of its program over a period of three years
of consultation, was a major undertaking. It showed leadership and built on a reservoir of good will
that the government had among the donor community at the time. Coming to closure was a major
accomplishment. The govemment, however, was facing serious difficulties in translating its
ambitious program on schedule and within planned budget. It has not been able to make best use of
the resources at its disposal. Audit reports of project accounts were continuously and seriously



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page iv
Implementation Completion Report                                       Evaluation Summary
qualified. GOT's responses were often not timely and sometimes had required the prodding of the
donor community, as in the case of the Road Fund and Road Agency. As evidenced in the 1996
Report on Presidential Commission Inquiry Against Corrupt Practices, the operating environment in
the implementing agencies was not conducive to good project management practices. In the area of
procurement, project management and contract administration, a decade after the launching of IRP I,
despite substantial expenditure of resources2, including manpower training, the evidence is that
implementing agencies are only marginally better than they were at the start of the project.
xvi. Project Outcome. Overall, the outcome of the IDA financed component is assessed as
unsatisfactory. However, as a result of the project, there is today a more organized sector program.
The government has learned valuable lessons from its implementation experience. A private sector
led road construction sector industry has emerged. Road maintenance is now carried by private
contractors who have largely come into existence with the support of the IRP I. Despite the
temporary relapse in the administration of the Road Fund in 1995/96, the road fund now contributes
a significant share of the cost of maintenance. The road fund is administered by the Road Fund
Board supported by the Road Fund Act. The TANROADS is finally going to start fully operating by
July 2003. However, impact of transport cost reduction on the macroeconomic situation was not as
high as expected at the start of this ambitious program. Also, the basics of project and financial
management have yet to be mastered.
Key Lessons Learned and Future Actions.
xvii. This Integrated Roads Project has been the largest and most ambitious project in the sector.
As such it has been the subject of multiple reviews including a recent Bank Quality Assurance Group
review. This ICR identifies a number of key lessons for future project design and implementation.
Complexity of the Project and Country Absorptive Capacity.  Project composition and
implementation schedule should match the absorptive capacity of the implementing agency. In
design of such large investment, involving several donors, the approach should aim at: (i) a phased
investment with a better defined triggers; and (ii) long-term donors support.
* Project Design. While the concept of sector investment project on which IRP I is based appears
workable, its application to a specific country requires making tradeoffs between major
development objectives based on detailed analysis of major risks in achieving those objectives.
In particular, in the civil works, the absence of detailed engineering for all major roads
immediately prior to start of construction, made variation orders almost inevitable, leading to
delays and cost increases. In institutional capacity building too, the many demands for reforms,
taxed the capacity of the govemment to deliver on budget and on schedule. Therefore, in
projects of IRP I type, it is important to introduce "checks and balances" with early warning
signals to be able to adapt the program when required.
* Corrupt practices. The poor implementation performance of IRP I testifies that the potential for
corrupt practices can significantly impact project implementation performance. In this case,
roads that would have been constructed under the project to good standard remained
uncompleted partly because of corrupt practices and the absence of systems and procedures
that could check against their occurrence. The Government should institute measures to
safeguard against such practices.  Physical progress should be verified against design
specifications. Stringent measures should be taken under situation where audit reports are
constantly delayed and qualified in order to fight potential corrupt practices from blossoming.
* Learning from Past Mistakes. The lessons of experience of past project implementation were
to safeguard against future mistakes both for IDA and the borrower. As a matter of fact, major
2 A total of us $105 million was expended by all donors on capacity building as estimated by Carl Bro
International a/s, Comprehensive Review of the IRP, Third Interim Report, Revised June 1997.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page v
Implementation Completion Report                                       Evaluation Summary
flaws experienced in the Sixth Highway Project Credit were also experienced under IRP 1. For
example, appropriate technical documentation and provision of adequate resources should be
fully completed before commencement of works. In short, more attention needs to be paid to
past lessons of experience during project design and implementation.
*  Composition of Project Team. Supervision team should have professional mix with key
persons being sufficiently experienced in the major fields of a project activities such as
engineering, institutional reforms, etc. In addition, there should not be frequent changes of
supervision management and teams, in order to ensure continuity and consistency of efforts in
achieving quality and quantity of the planned targets.
*  Technical Documentation. Technical documentation necessary for implementation of civil
works should be updated before actual commencement of construction works.
*  Donor Coordination. The spirit of cooperation of the donor community in support of the
Integrated Roads Project I had no parallel. It was the first time so many donors have committed
themselves to such a large common program. Unfortunately, in IRP 1, it has not been easy to
maintain the interests of all donors' cooperation during implementing phase as each donor focus
on execution of its own mini program under the parallel financing arrangement. In future, in
large investment supported by several donors, a professional coordination managed by the
government should be established, with agreed terms of references.
*  Technical and Financial Audits.  The Government should among other things, carry
performance technical and financial audits of the works carried out. Such audits should, besides
frequently revisiting the overall status of implementation, also include verification of the physical
and financial targets.
*  Initial Successes in Long-term Program. Usually during the initial phases of project cycle of
large programs, there is high optimism of the team involved and there is a tendency to
underestimate the operation environment of the specific country for which the project is
designed, even when there are potentially implementation problems. Initial successes can mask
deficiencies related to preparation, selection of contracts and judgements of capacities. It is
therefore important that project implementor should not be taken in by the initial euphoria about
early successes, and should continue to ensure that measurable output targets are met. The
project should have well defined qualitative and quantitative indicators, which should be
adequately designed so that any deviation from initial targets can be detected and corrected in
real time.
xvii.    Key Elements of Future Planned Operation. To lay the foundation for excellence in
institution building, there is need to assure that the modest capacity achieved to date under the
project, especially the trained manpower and the creation of a road agency, is sustained. Assuring
adequate resources for road maintenance will remain essentially an ongoing issue. Given past
performance of the economy, efficient and effective use of the available road fund will be another
critical area of focus.






Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page 1
Implementation Completion Report                        Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Background
1.   With an estimated project cost of US$ 871 million, the Integrated Roads Project I (IRP 1) I was
the largest single road sector program in the sector in Sub-Sahara Africa. It was a bold experiment
in the sector and represented major breaks in ways road sector projects were designed in the Bank.
It pooled resources on the basis of parallel financing from IDA, and 15 other donor agencies: -AfDF,
UNDP, EEC, DANIDA, Republic of Germany, Italy, FINNDA, ODA (UK), NORAD, USAID, The
Netherlands, Ireland, Switzerland, Saudi Fund and Kuwait Funds.
2.   The International Development Association (IDA) had been instrumental in assisting the
Government of Tanzania (GOT) develop IRP I and had assumed responsibility of coordinating
donors' assistance. Prior to the IRP I, the Bank group has extended credits and loans to help
finance six highway projects, one trucking project, two railway projects and five port projects. IRP I
was designed in support of GOT's economic recovery program. During the 1970s and early 1980s,
declining funding for road maintenance resulted in the deteriorating road condition in Tanzania.
However, when the Government of Tanzania undertook an Economy Recovery Program starting
1986 designed to liberalize and adjust the economy, it became apparent that the functioning of the
transport sector was critical to sustain the momentum of Tanzania's economic recovery.  In
December 1987, GOT called a Transport Sector Conference. At the Conference, GOT presented a
draft National Transport Policy along with a conference document entitled "Programme for Transport
Sector Recover'. The GOT initiative was based on a study to improve conditions of rural roads to
essential agricultural production area.
3.   Following three years of coordination and consultation on basic policy, institutional changes
and rehabilitation requirements of the sector needed to adequately respond to the economy, the
donor community agreed to support the govemment initiative. GOT committed itself to undertake
strategic changes regarding the organization of road maintenance and also pledged to make major
shifts in its public expenditure, committing itself to provide 20% of the development budget
expenditure for transport infrastructure, and to finance road maintenance from its recurrent budget.
Finally, agreement was reached between GOT, IDA and 15 other donor agencies - AfDF, UNDP,
EEC, DANIDA, Republic of Germany, Italy, FINNDA, ODA (UK), NORAD, USAID, The Netherlands,
Ireland, Switzerland, Saudi and Kuwait Funds - to finance the IRP I. A total of US$756.8 was
pledged or secured from the donor community at the launching of IRP for which IDA's contribution
was US$180.4 million equivalent. GOT was to cover US$80.5 million and only US$33.8 million or
4% of the total project cost was expected to be filled through future donor coordination conferences.
The project would be parallel financed following different implementing procedures. Bilateral donors
were to use their own staff to undertake implementation and supervision of components financed by
them. Others like IDA considered project implementation and field supervision to be primarily the
tasks of GOT and it's implementing agencies.
4.   Initially, the ICR was to provide a comprehensive assessment of the IRP I including the
outcomes and results of the works financed by all the donors. During the ICR mission, it became
apparent that relevant data was not readily available as the government had not kept adequate
records and the donor community has almost closed their activities related to the project. It became
apparent that undertaking such a task was beyond the budget allocated for the ICR. Thus, the focus
of this ICR is mainly on IDA financed component of IRP I.
1 IRP was essentially a program covering not only the road infrastructure but also covering the development of
road and air transport sectors



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page 2
Implementation Completion Report                        Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
5.   Project Objective. As outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 8367-TA, the main objectives
of IRP were to: (i) develop MCWs institutional capacity to manage the networks; and (ii) restore
Tanzanian's trunk and regional roads networks, which have become an obstacle to the sustainability
of the economic recovery program. The institutional objective was to focus on: assisting the
government in developing strong management and technical capacity to maintain the trunk and
regional road networks, and transformation MCWT from a construction-oriented ministry to an
administrative/ contract management-oriented ministry. The physical objective was to increase the
trunk roads in good condition from 15% to 60%; and to selectively rehabilitate the regional road
network initially in eleven of the most agriculturally productive regions thereby increasing the road
network in good condition from 10% to 50%; and institute regular maintenance on 80% of the trunk
and 60% of the regional road networks.
6.     Project Components. The project was to provide financial assistance for: (i) institutional
support to strengthen road management capacity of the MCWT; (ii) rehabilitation and improvement
program of about 4,600 km of trunk roads; 3000 km of regional roads in agriculturally productive
areas, and other related structures and bridges; (iii) road maintenance support to MCWT including
establishment of privately operated plant pools and development of local construction capacity to
undertake road works; and (iv) management assistance to Air Tanzania Corporation and the
National Transport Corporation.
7.     Changes in Project Scope. Three amendments to the credit agreement have been
undertaken. The first was on August 21, 1991, to include completion of the rehabilitation of three
sections of TANZAM highway. The second was on June 19, 1992, to reflect the split in the Ministry of
Communications and Works, and establishment of the Plant and Equipment Hire Company. The
third amendment October 4, 1992 was to include the establishment of computer course offerings for
highway technicians at Dar es Salaam Technical College. In 1995, attempts were made to
restructure the project, following failures of gravel roads. However, as CODAP was not prepared to
produce documentation for making appropriate decisions, nearly two years would pass before a
basis for assessing the status of the utilization of the IDA credits was established.  In 1997
agreements were finally reached based on the findings of an independent consultant not to further
restructure the project. Instead it was agreed to: (i) give priority to the ongoing contracts; (ii) update
the scope of works and quantities before signing any contracts; and (iii) re-orient the training
programs to focus more on building capacity particularly contract administration, procurement project
management.
8.     Project Covenants. The critical agreements reached at negotiation were to: (i) undertake
the main institutional and policy changes prior to project effectiveness, including (a) changes in the
procurement regulations, (b) appropriating the agreed road budget for the first year of project
implementation, and (c) reorganize the road administration; (ii) GOT appropriates agreed annual
road budget as a condition of IDA funding; (iii) complete engineering design works for the first two
years of the program prior to board presentation; (iv) develop closer coordination among the
government, donors and IDA; (v) station in Tanzania an experienced highway engineer from the
Bank to assist the government in coordinating implementation of the project.
Assessment of Project Objectives.
9.     The Integrated Roads Project objectives were very important to the people and
Government of Tanzania as the transport sector was the major constraint to the success of the
country's Economic Recovery Program. It was also IDA's priority to assist the Government in further
development and implementation of specific policy and institutional reforms in the sector, in the
context of the continuing ERP and as supported by Bank policy. The project objectives were thus in
line with IDA's overall and sector policy for Tanzania.
10.    The design of the project was conceptually clear. The institutional objective was to address
the long-term sustainability of the project, while the physical objective was focused on the urgent
task of maintenance and rehabilitating the road network to enhance the economic recovery program.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                             Page 3
Implementation Completion Report                       Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
A major challenge facing project design was defining an appropriate program size and finding the
appropriate tradeoffs between these two major objectives. A key strategy adopted, to assure
sustainable outcomes of the project, was to address in parallel several development objectives,
including transformation of the ministry from blue collar to white collar organization, development of a
private construction industry, decentralization of the maintenance and rural roads administration,
training of manpower, establishment of road fund. But this added to the complexity of the program
and the operational strategy had to deal with tradeoffs. For example, the project assumed proper
designs and technical documentation would be available prior to commencement of works, but on
the grounds of emergency needs, poor and insufficient designs, and weak procurement
documentation were actually used.
11.    The project was indeed complex given the borrowers implementation capacity - with many
development objectives, coordination of several implementing agencies and some sixteen donors,
five types of disbursements and an environment of frequent organization changes. Building
consensus among the donors was difficult because of different strategies and different aspirations
across the donor community. Given the prevailing environment, the motivation of the implementing
staff, the readiness of the country for such a huge program, the design of project was also too
optimistic while the risks in this respect not properly addressed. The country was already having
difficulties in effectively implementing the preceding Sixth Highway Project, a substantially smaller
project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
12.   Overall Assessment. . There is no question that there have been improvement in terms of
reductions of transport cost and travel time mainly as result of improvement of certain major links of
the country. According to government statistics, in 1999 the actual proportion in length of the trunk
road network in good, fair and poor conditions were 30%, 39% and 30% of the total trunk roads
respectively. This favorably compares to the SAR estimates for 1990/91, the start of the project,
which was 26%, 26% and 47% for good, fair and poor roads of the trunk road network length
respectively. Between 1990/91 and 1998/99, the trunk road network had also increased from 9,629
km to 10,203 km. However, the status of roads in good condition in 1999 which stood at 30% for the
trunk roads was significantly below when compared to the appraisal targets of 60% by mid-1996 and
80% by mid-2000. The current condition of rural roads is not know as El Nino has damaged the road
constructed. About 2000 km of rural roads were known to have been rehabilitated by the donor
community under the IRP I.
13.  With respect to the physical achievement under IDA finding, initially a total of 910 km of
gravel roads were contracted out. About 683 km of gravel roads were constructed with cost overuns
ranging between 65% and 244%. Of the 683 constructed road some 300 km was total loss and some
266 was deteriorated within the first 13 months of construction. The Tanga-Horohoro/Marangu-
Tarakea road (118 km) was substantially completed and is now in reasonable good condition; its
EIRR is 29%. Regretfully, for these uncompleted and washed out components, the investment value
is practically lost, making re-estimation of ERR not worthwhile. Mwanza-Nzega Road (54 km) is yet
to be fully completed and no EIRR is estimated.. Its designs were not updated before signature of
contracts. Field survey was poor and it suffered major claims related to payments delays of GOT
portion. The Kayaka bridge and approaches were completed. Implementation experienced many
failures of structures, approaches, temporary approaches and bridges. And substantial additional
works were carried out after commencement. Six of the seven packages in Emergency Works for
Dar es Salaam Roads were implemented. Poor surveys and designs, frequent changes in scope of
works resulted in poor quality of works and significant cost increases. Some of the roads also
disintegrated soon after completion. Under IDA funding periodic maintenance and emergency works
were carried out. The project also funded a portion of TANZAM Highways sections 2, 4 & 5, which
were rehabilitated under the Six Highway Rehabilitation Project (Cr,1688-TA).



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                            Page 4
Implementation Completion Report                       Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
Status of Major IDA funded Civil Works
Road Section                 Expenditure    Results
(US$)
1. Lusahunga-Usagara (266 kmi)    6,069,740  Works completed, but deteriorated within the
first 13 months after rehabilitation. Cost
increases of 65%
2.Tundoma/Lichet                  8,702,892  Some 50% of 226 km were done. scope of work
(Sumbawanga) (226)                          substantially changed. Work abandoned. Almost
total loss of investment. Cost increases of 244%
3. Shelui-SingidalBabati/Bereku   8,178,078  Some 60 % of civil works was completed.
(310km)                                     Scope  work  substantially  changed. Work
abandoned. Almost total loss of investment.
Cost increases
4. Tanga/Horohoro & Marangu       9,099,438  Gravel road completed excluding bridges.
Tarakea (118km)
Sub-total                        32,050,148
6. Rehab. - Tanzam 2              3,999,922  Substantially completed under Cr.1688: Six
7. Rehab. - Tanzam 4              5,368,290  Highway Rehabilitation Project; but payment;
8. Rehab. - Tanzam 5                 96,319  represent payments made under IRP i.
Sub-total                         9,464,531
9.   Kayaka   Bridges   and       7,741,022  Implementation experienced many failures of
approaches                                  structures, approaches, and temporary bridge.
Substantial additional works included after
commencement.
10. Emergency Works for Dar es   35,343,683  The program had seven contract packages; but
Salaam Roads                                only six packages were implemented. Poor
surveys and designs and frequent changes in
scope of works resulted in poor quality and cost
increases. Some of the roads disintegrated.
Total                            84,599,384
14.  On the institutional front, modest progress has been made towards achieving some of the
institutional development objectives. A modest private construction industry has been created.
Road maintenance administration has been decentralized in 20 regions. The Road Fund established
under the project now can potentially provide some 70% of the required road maintenance funding.
Road maintenance expenditure made from the Road Fund has increased from US$7.24 million in
1991/92 to US$22.48 million in 1998/99. The National Road Agency expected to be established in
July 2000, and fully operational by June 2002. Significant number of high level manpower has been
trained at home and abroad. With respect to liberalization, the Plant and Equipment Hire Company
is now in the process of privatization. Nevertheless, it is generally agreed by both MOW and donors,
that institutional issues, particularly contract administration and project management are still major



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page 5
Implementation Completion Report                        Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
problems in efficiently managing the road network. Overall, the project achievement is assessed as
unsatisfactory.
15.  At completion, the total fund expended on IRP I was estimated at US$868.0 million including
GOT contribution estimated at US$60.0 million. US$166.7 million equivalent (SDR1 17.2 million) of
IDA fund was disbursed and US$ 12.17 million of the original estimates was cancelled along with
US$ 19.0 million equivalent from exchange rate savings. However, the costs of institutional support
were more than double the appraisal estimates (para.). This applied for both IDA and for the other
donors. Cost escalation for civil works ranged from 40% to over 125%. Delays in procurement
totaling 30 to 36 months have been experienced, although major improvement has been observed
lately.
I.   Institutional Reforms.
16.  Reorganization. Decentralized  decision  making  to the  regions for planning  and
implementation of road programs were introduced and staff was assigned to all 20 regions. Following
the Mramba Commission on restructuring of the Tanzanian Government, all transport modes in
different ministries were brought under one oversight agency, the Ministry of Works,
Communications and Transport (MWCT). REOs reverted-to MWCT from the Regional Authorities in
July in 1990, incorporating the MOW trunk roads maintenance organization in the 20 regions.
Subsequently, following three years of discussions to create a more streamlined organization for
overall management of the transport sectors, the ministry was further split into MOW and MCT.
MOW, Department of Roads (which was split from Buildings in November 1991) was to provide
better focus on road infrastructure needs. In line with the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission,
one objective of the later reorganization was directed at preparing for private partnership or
ownership of the transport functions (road, air, and maritime transport) and creation of public work
parastatal for road equipment (PEHOL). The establishment of an agency specifically related to road
construction, TANROADS, remained an important agenda of reform supported by donors throughout
the project life, but the government was reluctant to pursue this in the initial years of the project. It
was only in the last two years that the GOT changed its stance and today TANROADS is being
established.
17     Training. Significant manpower has been trained under IRP I. In MOW, under IDA funding
alone, a total of 63 staff obtained Master of Science Degrees: 54 in engineering; 3 in construction
management; 4 in human resources and 2 in transport economics. However, of the 23 foreign
educated professionals, only 11 are currently with the ministry. Out of the remaining 40 who
graduated from the University of Dar es Salaam, all are with the ministry except the two who died.
Regarding the short-term trainees, 14 out of 32 of the foreign trained, and 336 of 379 locally trained
are still with the ministry. Also, in the National Construction Council, a total of 15 staff had received
advanced training and 12 of those are currently with NCC. Similarly, other donors have provided
training. While this is a significant capacity and it should have translated into effective performance,
the consensus of donors and the ministry itself is that the ministry has yet to significantly overcome
its capacity problems. One reason, in the words of one of the staff who received post-graduate
degree under IRP I financing, "with wages which hardly cover two weeks living expense, you are
expected to devote yourself to your work for a full month". Although a staggering US$105 million3
(from all donors) was spent on the capacity building effort over a nine year-period, the absence of an
adequate incentive structure undermined these efforts.
18.  Contract Management. MOF undertook a study and implementation of a revised
procurement and supplies management after much delay but its findings and recommendations were
not made effective and had little effect on the implementation of IRP I. However, improvements are
3 A total of us $105 million was expended by all donors on capacity building as estimated by Carl Bro
International a/s, Comprehensive Review of the IRP, Third Interim Report, Revised June 1997.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                             Page 6
Implementation Completion Report                       Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
evident since 1998. Currently, procurement time on civil works have tended to be within the tender
validity period, while processing consultancy service contracts still exceed the tender validity period,
partly due to two stage evaluation and each stage undergoing internal clearances before obtaining
"no objection" from IDA.
19.  Technical Capacity for Road Maintenance. Road Maintenance Management System was
introduced. Socio-economic criteria were used for selecting priority road improvements. Labor-
based contract training was undertaken; and a management information system was introduced.
20.  Road Fund. The road fund was established in July 1992. The Sub-Sahara Africa Road
Maintenance Initiative (RMI) and the donor community supported the program. The revenue is
derived from fuel toll levy. In principle, significantly more resources should be available to pay for
road maintenance with road users shouldering an increasing share of the cost of maintenance.
Currently, 70% of the total collected revenue from fuel levy is allocated to road maintenance. The
amount available in the future depends on the performance of the economy and on the levy rate
applied.
21.  In the first three years of its establishment, the road fund was covering significant share of the
resource requirement for the maintainable road network. Over time, delays in transfer of road funds
to the Ministry of Works became frequent. This affected the effective execution of maintenance
activities. There was also misapplication of the road fund. In 1995/96, there was a crisis with the
road fund. Following short falls in the government revenue, GOT diverted the road fund to the
general account. The government saw the issue as a balancing act between important national
priorities due to tight budget to meet resource needs for counterpart funding; rising debt payments,
both external and internal; food deficit due to drought etc. Among donors, the 1995/96 'road fund
crisis" rekindled the donors' concern that maintenance was not being given adequate priority.
22.  Audit reports on the road funds were highly qualified. For example, the audit reports of the
1994/95, 1995/96, and 1996/97 showed that the fund was used for ineligible expenditure which
included: terminal benefits, night out allowances to casual laborers, subsistence allowances,
severance allowances and transportation of personal effects. Contractors with poor performance
continue to be awarded contracts paid from road fund. These led several donors to question the
transparency and accountability of the road fund. In the last two years. In response the GOT has
undertaken confidence-building measures, including establishing Road Fund Board, and appointing
a chief executive for TANROADS scheduled to commence work in July 2000.
II.   Commercialization.
23.  Construction Industry. In line with its commitment, GOT adopted in 1992 the National
Construction Industry Development Strategy. This led to the establishment of a private sector led
construction industry. Local contractors and consultants received training. By the end of 1996, the
number of private civil works contractors had significantly increased from about 43 in 1989 to 610, of
which some 200 were in road sector. Today, there are more than 50 contractors with capabilities to
undertake basic unpaved road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works. Maintenance works
are now carried primarily using local contractors instead of force account. In the 1995/96 "road fund
crisis" the contractors played active role by lobbying for the timeiy disbursement of the road fund. Yet
despite significant increase in the 1990s in the number of qualified domestic contractors, their share
of the market has remained low, around 10% of total value of contracts. This is the major concern to
the nascent private contracting industry in Tanzania.
24.  Plan and Equipment Hire Co. Ltd (PEHCOL). Under the credit GOT was committed to
manage all its road equipment along commercial lines, with users paying full hire rates. However,
because of lack of reliability of the PEHCOL's equipment, commercialization objective was not as
successful in the regions where PEHCOL had workshops as elsewhere. Much effort and resources
were expended to bring the equipment in good service condition. A consultant was hired to advise on
rehabilitation strategy. A total of US$ 11.45 million was utilized for the purpose from the IDA Credit of



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page 7
Implementation Completion Report                        Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
which about US$5.0 million directly on repairs and rehabilitation and US$ 6.0 million indirectly in the
forms of supervision vehicles, studies, technical assistance. 15 plants and 7 vehicles were
rehabilitated; 35 plants and 12 vehicles had overhaul of major components; and 19 plants and 47
vehicles received upgrades. But the impact of the above expenditure on improved equipment
availability was marginal as most of the equipment in PEHCOL fleet was old. In retrospect, the
economic merit of rehabilitation of the old equipment is questionable and there is need to look for
new approaches to establish equipment-leasing companies in remote rural areas. GOT has now
decided to sell 51 % to 75% shares of PEHCOL to private investors. Bids were opened in May 1999.
Valuation of bids is ongoing under the Presidential Parastatal Sector Perform Commission.
25.  National Transport Corporation (NTC). Following restructuring exercises, measures were
taken to bring about reduction of fleet sizes and manning levels of the companies with a view to
improve efficiency, reduction in costs and therefore improved profitability. Two of the RETCOs
showed profit in 1997/98. The previous years, RETCOs showed losses due failure to adjust to
shortage of consolidated cargoes arising from the liberalization of agricultural crop marketing.
Starting 22nd of August 1997, NTC and the associated companies became a Specified Public
Corporations and are earmarked for divestiture during FY 1999/2000. Government has decided to
sell the RETCOs to the workers, the public and institutions in the respective regions. As regard to
Shirika la Usafari Dar es Salaam Ltd. (UDA) it has been decided that 75% of the shares will be sold
to investors in 2000.
26.  Tanzania Air Corporation (ATC). Management and administration study funded under the
Credit had some impact on the profitability of TAC. Of the seven items TAC planned to procure
under the project five were implemented. Two items, the airline revenue accounting package, and
purchase of 18 reservation terminals totaling US$132,302 will be financed under IRP II.
Ill.  Physical
27.   Overview. Overall, achievement of the IDA civil works component is now assessed as
partial. Assessment of project progress was initially more positive. In mid-1993, based on initial
progress, but not based on actual physical achievements, the project was considered a success and
therefore a follow-on project, IRP II, was appraised. The basis for the partial rating is for the physical
achievements is already highlighted in paras.12-13. However, the gravel roads implementation
merits further details as it eventually led to major procurement problems.
28.   Gravel Roads. All the gravel roads constructed between late 1992 and early 1994 under IDA
financing were substantially changed from the original scope of works from spot improvement,
regular periodic maintenance-rehabilitation to works to full-scale reconstruction. Moreover, this was
done without full assessment of the financial and budgetary impact of the decisions being made and
without an IDA "no objection". While the designs were adequate for the original scope of works, they
were not adequate for the new scope of works. Moreover, no detailed designs were made available
to the contractors or given to the Bank for prior review. The design changes were made on site
through variation orders issued by supervision consultants.  For example, in the cases of
Lusahunga-Usagara (266 km) and Tunduma-Sumbawanga (226 km), construction were undertaken
without proper design, drainage and widening of roads from 6.0 m to 7.5 m were undertaken. In the
cases of Babati area roads (310 km), there was a widening of roads from 6.5 m to 9.5 and finally to
10.2m and reducing the road length to 107 km by the omission of sections (i) Babati-Bereku (35 km)
and (ii) Babati-Singida (168 km); and introduction of a major realignment at Sekenke escarpment
which involved major earth works and drainage structures. In the case of Tanga-Horohoro (68 km)
and Marangu -Tarakea (52 km) roads, two projects about 500 km apart were lumped together in one
contract. Partially as a result of these changes many sections of these roads failed during the first
major rains.  Similar conceptual and implementation mistakes occurred with the emergency
rehabilitation of Dar es Salaam Roads.
29.    By May 1994, the poor quality of works and high unit cost of ongoing projects began
challenging the initial assessment. In the case of gravel roads financed under IDA, substantial



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page 8
Implementation Completion Report                        Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
changes in scope of work without appropriate engineering design and the Bank's approval led to
significant quality of works failures and major cost overrun over the contracted amounts, making
impossible achieving the physical targets set at appraisal. Serious attempts were made to salvage
the above components, but the operating environment proved intractable. In March 1995, IDA
requested the government to appoint an independent consultant to look into the causes of failure of
the rehabilitated gravel roads and to suggest actions to be taken to rectify the situation. In July 1997
when the consultant report came out, IDA was to proceed with preparatory process for a major
restructuring of the project but progress halted when the entire senior management of the ministry
was criticized in the Warioba Commission Report on corrupt practices. According to the Report,
'...Officers of the Ministry of Works receive bribes in order to give favor in awarding tenders; to
accept upward variation of contracts; to conceal the weakness of the contracts; and in approving
payments. Moreover bribes are offered at roadblocks in order to let undeserving vehicles through."
Further, the previous consultants' and contractors' claims for the gravel roads remained outstanding.
It was only in March 1998, that the reorganization of the ministry took place and in March 1999, the
claims of the contractors and consultants were settled. Moreover, there was not adequate funds
under the credit to fully finance the required works. Therefore. it was decided to close the project
after one-year extension from the original closing date of June 1998.
30.  The major finding of an independent consultants carrying out the project review was that the
government supervision consultants did not provide MOW adequate waming signals of emerging
problems.  The consultants' review also indicated that the gravel road contracts have had
procurement and project management problems starting from the pre-qualification of consultants,
preparation of inadequate engineering designs to the contracting and construction supervision
monitoring, actually since commencement of the Project in 1991. Poor direction and weak project
management by GOT influenced the performance of the consultants. The production of the tender
documents including the field survey took an abnormally long time (about two years to get to the
tender stage). Pre-qualification of contractors was advertised between 31 January and 5th February
1988, after which, out of 32 contractors who applied, 27 were pre-qualified. This list was then used
for actual biding for the gravel road contracts more than two years later.
31.  Bridges. The SAR budgeted US$8.0 million for some 20 trunk road bridges and ten ferry
crossings. But only one bridge, Kyaka Bridge and its associated works in Kagera district was
completed at cost of nearly US$7.7 million exhausting the available resources for bridges and ferries.
Implementation was followed by many failures of structures, approaches, temporary approaches,
and temporary bridges.
32.  Emergency Works. The IDA component of the project also financed road maintenance and a
portion of outstanding balances for emergency works on Tunduma-Sumbawanga and other gravel
roads.
33.  Regional (District and Rural) Roads. Several donors financed rural roads under IRP I:
including the EEC (200 km), UNDP (52 km) and USAID (1697.0 km). USAID under its Agricultural
Assistance Program (ATAP No. 621-0166) was the major donor. In January 1996, USAID issued
impact assessment report on its program. The report covered a review of the institutional, financial,
road industry and local people-level impacts and the project sustainability. The report concluded that
ATAP was making reasonable progress. It assessed the outcome as likely sustainable, provided the
program continues the support of the GOT.
34.  Studies. Various studies have been carried out in the areas of construction sector industry
(Table 8). The extension and update of the Zanzibar's road network study from 1991, successfull
completed on time, is one such project that is likely to attract financing.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                              Page 9
Implementation Completion Report                        Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
IV.  Macro-economic Impact of the Program
35.  Significant transport cost reduction has been achieved on roads rehabilitated to good/fair
standard (para.27). However, because the targets for roads in good condition was not realized
under the Credit, the outcome compared to the high expectation at appraisal has not materialized.
C. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
36.   Overview. The factors that were partly outside the government control and which affected
the implementation of the project included: difficult environment for implementation, inadequate
design, and problems in donor coordination and poor performance of consultants and contractors.
The factors within the government's control were lack of good governance including corrupt
practices, failure to apply lessons learned from preceding project implementation, substantive
changes in the scope of works without proper documentation, lack of proactive response, frequent
reorganization of the implementing agencies, inadequate counterpart funding, and poor staff
incentives. Factors within the control of the implementing agencies included procurement problems,
deficient contract administration, and poor project and financial management control.
37.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control.
*  Lack of realism in the project design. In principle, project design should prioritize investments
and ensure an appropriate balance between the development of the productive capacity (road
network) and the institutional and policy capacity to oversee the network. In this project,
institutional aspects were stated as primary objective (evidence by the order of presentation of
the two objectives in the project), but there was never a clear consensus on this between the
government and donors.
*  Effective Donor Coordination remained an issue throughout, although a senior technical advisor
was appointed as part of the project implementation arrangements. Information on the activities
of the donors and resources were difficult to come by and to achieve coordination of priorities.
There were no adequate documentation to help find out what each donor is doing and how many
resources each donor was spending. Lack of coordination among donors resulted in excess
local contracting capacity creation. Also, not all donors were active in the implementation
issues. Finally, GOT received a number of conflicting signals, for example, on road fund, road
agency, reorganization of the transport sector, on the speed at which these changes were to be
implemented and on the degree of achievement of the project objectives.
*  The government did not always get the best advice from its advisor and consultants on status of
project management as evidenced in the poor quality civil works, cost over runs, delayed
completion of subprojects and unfavorable terms of contracts.
38.  Factors Generally Subject to Government Control.
*  The prevailing implementation environment was difficult. As noted in the Warioba Commission
Report (Dec. 1996), the governance system prevailing in the ministry was not conducive to
timely completion of project. Audited accounts also showed serious shortfalls. Macroeconomic
performance was below expectations, and country performance ratings of inflation, fiscal deficit,
savings and expenditure management were poor. OED reviews pointed to difficulties in
controlling the budgetary pressures that were fostering inflation.
*  The lessons of experience of the preceding Highway Rehabilitation Projects appear to have little
impact. Poorly documented engineering design were one of the main causes of delays and cost
escalations under the Sixth Highway Rehabilitation Project and remained so in IRP I.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                            Page 10
Implementation Completion Report                       Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
*  Counterpart financing was a problem. The prevailing macro-economic conditions made it
difficult for the government to meet its commitment to make available the proceeds from road
funds on time and in the amount required for road maintenance. Because of the development
budget funding problem, MOW used the road fund revenues to fund emergency expenditures.
*  There were several implementation issues for which adequate and timely attention on the part of
the GOT would have radically changed the situation on the ground and the perception of donors
towards the government's performance. Lagged responses on the part of the government raised
concern as to the government's commitment. Some of these included: decision to change the
scope of works from rehabilitation to reconstruction without proper engineering design; delays in
commercialization of PEHCOL and delayed establishment of road agencies; prolonged delays
on taking action against corruption, use of dedicated road fund for the purpose not intended, etc.
The governments delayed responses to the donor community's queries on the 1995/96-road
fund allocation and road agency issue led to a request by the donors to meet with the President
on these issues.
*  Frequent reorganization of the implementing ministry in the midst of implementing such a large
project had also adverse impact on project implementation. The split of MWCT into two
separate ministries diverted senior management attention away from implementation of IRP
projects towards reorganization.  The reorganization also resulted in lack of coordination
between the two ministries dealing with transport and was for a time a source of delays until
functions were sorted out.
-  The weak incentive system in the implementing agency did affect staff proactive performance,
contributing to delay completion of the project, leading to substantial changes in scope of work
without supporting technical preparation. The result was of significant consequence to project
implementation - cost escalation, including changes in-contract prices of over 100% of the
original amount.
*  The weak contracting industry also contributed to the poor quality of works and cost escalation.
39.  Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control.
*  The project faced several problems with timely decision making processes, delays in execution,
cost overruns, implementation problems, technical/financial problems, technical and financial
monitoring and quality of executed works. The selection of contractors, their financial capabilities
and the contractors' capabilities to import equipment created also problems for the project.
Variation orders in magnitude well above than 15% of the project contract without the Bank's
approvals were allowed contrary to Appendix I paragraph 3 of the Guidelines for procurement
under IDA Credit. Throughout implementation, the coordinating office was not adequately
equipped or staffed to effectively handle these issues for such complex project. Generally, it
was less proactive and left issues unresolved for too long.
*  Procurement and contract administration were focal points of IRP I problems through out the
project life. In particular, the area of procurement and negotiation of contracts, the implementing
agency could have contributed much more than it did. Either due to omission or commission,
procurement problems, and deficient contract management contributed to cost escalations and
poor quality.  Moreover, the contracts provided generous price escalation payments. For
example, foreign currency exchanges were fixed at unrealistic rates resulting on variation on the
dollar to almost 20% per annum whereas in real terms it should have been only 4% at most on
the international market. Moreover, the foreign currency portion should not have been escalated
for the first 12-months of the contract. In addition, the Tanzanian portion should not have been
subject to price escalation before the first 12 months of the contract expire, and thereafter price
escalation should have reflected only the inflation prevalent in the country in the various inputs.
Overall project implementation delays were between 30 to 36 months. Procurement delays



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                               Page 11
Implementation Completion Report                         Part l: Project Implementation Assessment
averaged 189 weeks from tender to signing of contracts; poor contract administration contributed
to price escalation in majority of cases exceeding 100% of the contract price. Inadequate
contractors capacity contributed to poor quality of works resulting on failing road structures and
road surface, particularly for gravel roads.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40.    Project Sustainability. Overall, the sustainability of the project is assessed as uncertain. It
appears that much longer time than originally planned is needed to assure sustainability.
Sustainability of the progresses made with respect to institutional objective depends on the prevailing
environment, government commitment to maintenance-first policy, proactive leadership, the incentive
system to skilled manpower and on follow-up measures to consolidate the progress achieved to date
- road fund, road agency, etc. The sustainability of the commercialized activities under the
liberalization regime depends on the entrepreneurial ability of the new contractors and their financial
capacity. The sustainability of the maintenance system introduced depends on the performance of
the economy to generate road fund revenue and eradication of corrupt practices.
E. Bank Performance
41.   Identification and Preparation IDA's performance during identification and preparation
phases is assessed as satisfactory. IDA staff rightly identified that transport was a major constraint
facing the Tanzanian economic recovery in its transition to market-oriented economy. During
preparation IDA staff provided critical assistance to GOT in coordinating donor assistance and
packaging the program.
42.    Appraisal. Appraisal did address many issues and was cognizant of the complexity of the
project design. In retrospect, however, there were some shortcomings in its assessment: defining
the alternative design of the project (e.g. considering a series of several projects based on an agreed
program suggested at the time); the inadequate incentive regime as well as the readiness of the
implementing agencies to perform basic tasks. Appraisal was also weak in assessing the risks on
the physical objectives due to multiplicity of development objectives, which required major
institutional structural changes. Moreover, given that the rationale for undertaking the project was to
remove the transport constraints on the ongoing economic recovery program, the primary
development objective of the project should have been the physical objective (83% of the project
cost), and institutional capacity should have focussed more, and first on the basics of procurement,
contract administration and project management with the scope of institutional reforms more phased.
Certainly, the perception at appraisal that the primary risk of the project would be from "slow
liberalization!" is a reflection of a failure to assess the real reasons of the project of this size.
Second, the risks due to lack of incentives to staff was identified at appraisal as a risk, but an
adequate sustainable solution was not found in the context of the civil service at the time. Third,
since it is known from experience that earlier IDA financed highway sector project had experienced
basic implementation problems in performing the basics tasks of procurement, focusing on contract
administration and project management at appraisal would have led to a more focussed project. In
summary, appraisal is assessed as deficient.
Supervision
43.  As noted in the earlier sections of this ICR, the conceptual design of the program and its large-
scale investment was aimed at meeting the enormous requirements of the country for a well-
functioning road infrastructure at a time when the economy was recovering. The deteriorated road
network posed serious constraints to the movement of both people and goods, and particularly the
flow of agricultural inputs to farms and outputs to markets, and the mobility of people to access social
services. The donor community considered that a large program encompassing both capital



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                            Page 12
Implementation Completion Report                       Part l: Project Implementation Assessment
construction and basic capacity building was needed to elicit a supply response to the
macroeconomic reforms, which the government was undertaking.
44.  Against this background, the donor community agreed to finance a complex and high-risk
program totaling US$871 million. There was great optimism that the program would work and this
sense of optimism was reinforced by the apparent eagerness of the government to reform its public
administration. However, the outcome of the program execution shows that, given the scale of the
appraised program and its complexity combined with the weak institutional structure, the donor
community's optimism was misplaced.
45.  The project achieved initial success: the launching ceremonies, the signature of the first large
contracts and the completion of one or two links during the first two years, the implementation of the
of the reforms in decentralization of road maintenance, maintenance planning, improved reporting,
the quality of presentation at mid-term review. However, this early success later proved to be a
liability, since it obscured the ability to detect and respond to implementation problems which soon
arose. As the number of contracts increased, the existing infrastructure to implement the project did
not grow in tandem and as a result enormous delays in procurement processing occurred leading to
huge increases in program costs.
46.  Although the design of the project anticipated the stationing in Tanzania an experienced
highway engineer from the Bank to assist the government in coordination of the project, eventually
an ex-Bank Principal Transport Engineer (PTE) was located in the Bank's Resident Office
answerable to the Permanent secretary of MOW (who was responsible for implementing the Project).
The arrangement appeared to be working. However, as the works progressed, conflicting signals
appeared regarding the role of the engineer, causing confusion to the client, Bank management,
contractors and consultants. The optimistic views of the engineer on the program performance and
his communication with other players actually contradicted the findings of the headquarters-based
task team and its early warnings that the project's institutional structure could not manage the
planned activities, that the planned milestones could not be achieved within available resources and
that the project was moving towards a crisis. The conflicts implied in the engineer dual roles in
acting as both an adviser to the government and as a supervisor by the client during the first four
years of the program clearly delayed the emergence of a consensus among the task team, Bank
management and donors on required measures to turn around the performance of the program.
47.  The influx of funds and the complexity of the project combined with the inability of the
implementing organization to increase its capacity at a rate commensurate with the growing volume
of works, and the overall poor governance environment in the country, led to major mismanagement
of the program and eventually to corruption. By early 1994, the Bank supervision reports began to
clearly state the problems, but Bank management influenced by the resident engineer, and the
optimistic donor perceptions did not immediately grasp the seriousness of the situation. However, by
the beginning of 1995, Bank management decided to strengthen the headquarters supervision
mission team by including an experienced senior highway engineer and the magnitude of the
problems facing the project were clearly identified.
48.  In retrospect, questions could be raised such as: (i) why the early concerns raised during initial
supervision missions were not responded to more quickly; (ii) why questions were not raised earlier
on the growing disconnect after 1992 between the resident engineer and the supervision missions;
and (ii) why an independent engineer was not added to the supervision team until after substantial
commitments were locked into. Clearly the initial progress led to a misplaced level of optimism but
more important the decision to place a senior engineer into the field as both an advisor and
implementor led to a conflict which contributed to substantial implementation difficulties later on.
49.  By 1995 the government had lost control of the program, arguably a result of mismanagement.
The headquarters task team downgraded the rating of the project to unsatisfactory, stopped giving
no objections to new contracts, focused on ongoing contracts and on ascertaining the precise
physical and financial status of the project with a view to restructuring it. Bank management, now



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                             Page 13
Implementation Completion Report                        Part l: Project Implementation Assessment
convinced about the deficiencies in implementation of the project, aggressively supported the task
team and intensively dialogued with the government on the required project management and
institutional changes.
50.  In 1996, the government concern about mismanagement in all facets of public administration
led to a report on the State of Corruption in the Country (Warioba Report) in which the Ministry of
Works was highly criticized. The report stated that ".Officers of the Ministry of Works receive
bribes in order to give favor in awarding tenders, to accept upward variation of contracts; to conceal
the weaknesses of contractors; and in approving payments. Moreover bribes are offered at road
blocks in order to let vehicles through." The report recommended a total reorganization of the
Ministry and removal of the management team, the same team which had been earlier seen as
"champions" of the program by the Bank and the donors. More than two years after the Warioba
Report, in February 1998, the government eventually replaced the top managers and engineers who
had been implicated by the report. The Ministry was re-organized and five months later, the Bank
was able to partially close this project and to restructure the ongoing Second Integrated Roads
Project. In June 1999 the government passed legislation for establishment of the Road Act and
Road Fund Board and for establishment of TANROADS.
51.  With regard to basic capacity building, which was to take place in parallel with the works
programs, the results have been poor because the conditions for effective capacity building did not
exist. Although large amount of resources was spent on this effort over a nine year-period (para.17),
the absence of an adequate incentive structure undermined the efforts. The Ministry's highly
qualified professionals received monthly salaries barely adequate to meet living costs for two weeks.
At the same time they had to work side by side with counterparts, provided by donors, contractors
and consultant's staff, who eamed 100 times their own salaries. This arguably led to an environment
that undermined the project implementation.
52.  The arrangements and safeguard measures planned in the project did not adequately
recognize the risks given the large scale of the project, its complexity and the weak institutional
structure. The unrealistic optimism that the government's apparent commitment to reforming public
sector administration would be translated, through the capacity building component, into real
capacity needed for project implementation proved to have been a miscalculation. The failure to
adequately take into account the lessons learned from the Sixth Highway Project, a smaller scale
operation that nevertheless showed similar problems, proved fatal in a much larger and ambitious
project. Status of Civil Works of IDA financed component, ref. Paragraph 13 above in the text,
shows the cost increases of the IDA financed road works and the magnitude of the deviations from
original contract values.
53.  Thus, it is in the context that both appraisal and supervision are rated at all level of
management as marginally unsatisfactory - a set of good ideas undermined by an unduly ambitious
and optimistic project design; the early successes following initial contract signatures and
improvements in road conditions making it difficult to identify and gain acceptance by subsequent
delays and problems; the controversial role of the Principal Transport Engineer in advising both the
government and the Bank management and staff; and poor governance conditions in the country all
had a role in the project's eventual failure.  Notwithstanding the substantial efforts of the
headquarters based task team, in identifying the problems during the supervision as the project's
midlife and their extensive efforts to get things on track throughout the rest of the project's life, the
conditions in-country and in the donor community and the role of the engineer undermined the
effectiveness of the supervision efforts during the critical years when the bulk of the investments
were committed.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
54.    Preparation. Overall Borrowers preparation  is assessed  as satisfactory.   The
government's initiative in its Transport Sector Policy Paper and its Transport Recovery Program and



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                             Page 14
Implementation Completion Report                       Part l: Project Implementation Assessment
its ability to bring some 16 donors to agree in support of its program over a period of three years,
was a major undertaking. It showed leadership and made good on the reservoir of good will the
government had among the donor community at the time. Coming to closure was a fit of
accomplishment. On the other hand GOT had some shortcomings. It had not made adequate
preparation to correct the weaknesses revealed in the course of implementation of a series of
Highway Projects IDA financed earlier. It had not piloted or pre-tested the process of procurement
and contract management process to be used in administering the project.
55.    Implementation. GOT has overestimated its implementation capacity. The government
was not able to execute its ambitious program on schedule and within budget. Audit reports of
project accounts, as the scale of implementation increased, were highly qualified. In particular, GOT
and its implementing agencies failed to make good use of the resources at their deposal as in the
case of the gravel roads. Where the govemment has ultimately made good on its commitments, the
responses were not often timely and sometimes had required the prodding of the donor community
as in the case of the Road Fund, Road Agency. In the area of procurement, project management
and contract administration, a decade after the launching of IRP I, and after continuous reminder of
the problems in these areas, and substantial expenditure of resources for manpower training, there
is no evidence that the implementing agency is significantly better than it was at the start of the
project. GOT management of its consultants was not demanding. It must also be stated that the
consultants and the advisor to the govemment did not provide always quality professional services.
These professionals could have contributed to better quality of works but failed to do so as
evidenced from their implementation performance. Most disappointing was the fact that the project
advisor failed to steer the project implementation in the right course.
56.    In particular, there were problems related to the use of the Special Account. An initial
deposit of USD12.0 million was made to the Special account (SA) in March 1991. By January 1996,
the balance in the SA had dropped to about US$5.6 m. CODAP had made payments of about
US$3.2 million on account of seven addenda for civil work and consultant services. As no formal "no
objections" were given to the amendments covering such additional works and services, CODAP
failed to follow IDA procurement procedures for supplementary contract increases and made
payments without following IDA procurement procedures for supplementary contract increases. Until
an independent consultant's report on the addenda was published, IDA limited the SA to the
available USD2.4 million, suspended replenishment starting July 1996 and the minimum size
application correspondingly reduced from USD1.2 million to USD150, 000. Outstanding invoices
amounting USD5.6 million were directly paid from project accounts.
G. Assessment of Outcome.
57.  Project outcome. Overall, the outcome of the IDA financed component is assessed as
unsatisfactory. However, as a result of the project, there is today a more organized sector program.
The government has learned valuable lessons from its implementation experience. A private sector
led road construction sector industry has emerged. Road maintenance is now carried by private
contractors, who have largely come into existence with the support of the IRP I. Despite the
temporary relapse in the administration of the road fund in 1995/96, road fund now contributes a
significant share of the cost of maintenance. The Road Fund Board supported by the Road Fund Act
administers the road fund. The TANROADS is finally going to be fully operating by July 2003.
However, the impact of transport cost reduction on the macroeconomic situation was not as high as
expected at the start of this ambitious program. Also, the basics of project management and
contract administration have yet to be mastered.
H.     Future Operations
58.    Key Elements of Future Planned Operation. To lay the foundation for excellence in
institution building, there is need to assure that the modest capacity achieved to date under the



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                             Page 15
Implementation Completion Report                        Part l: Project Implementation Assessment
project, especiaUly the trained manpower and the creation of a road agency, is sustained. Assuring
adequate resources for road maintenance will remain essentially an ongoing issue. Given past
performance of the economy, efficient and effective use of the available road fund will be another
critical area of focus.
1.   Key Lessons Learned and Future Actions.
59. Key Lessons Learned and Future Actions. This Integrated Roads Project has been the
largest and most ambitious project in the sector. As such it has been the subject of multiple reviews
including a recent Bank Quality Assurance Group review. This ICR identifies a number of key
lessons for future project design and implementation in Tanzania.
* Project Design. While the concept of sector investment project on which IRP I is based appears
workable, its application to a specific country requires making tradeoffs between major
development objectives based on detailed analysis of major risks in achieving those objectives.
In particular, in the civil works, the absence of detailed engineering for all major roads
immediately prior to start of construction, made variation orders almost inevitable, leading to
delays and cost increases. In institutional capacity building too, the many demands for reforms,
taxed the capacity of the government to deliver on budget and on schedule. Therefore, in
projects of IRP I type, it is important to introduce "checks and balances" with early warning
signals to be able to adapt the program when required.
* Corrupt practices. The poor implementation performance of IRP I testifies that the potential for
corrupt practices can significantly impact project implementation performance. In this case,
roads that would have been constructed under the project to good standard remained
uncompleted partly because of corrupt practices and the absence of systems and procedures
that could check against their occurrence. The Government should institute measures to
safeguard against such practices.  Physical progress should be verified against design
specifications. Stringent measures should be taken under situation where audit reports are
constantly delayed and qualified in order to fight potential corrupt practices from blossoming.
Learning from Past Mistakes. The lessons of experience of past project implementation were
to safeguard against future mistakes both for IDA and the borrower. As a matter of fact, major
flaws experienced in the Sixth Highway Project Credit were also experienced under IRP 1. For
example, appropriate technical documentation and provision of adequate resources should be
fully completed before commencement of works. In short, more attention needs to be paid to
past lessons of experience during project design and implementation.
* Composition of Project Team. Supervision team should have professional mix with key
persons being sufficiently experienced in the major fields of a project activities such as
engineering, institutional reforms, etc. In addition, there should not be frequent changes of
supervision management and teams, in order to ensure continuity and consistency of efforts in
achieving quality and quantity of the planned targets.
* Technical Documentation. Technical documentation necessary for implementation of civil
works should be updated before actual commencement of construction works.
* Donor Coordination. The spirit of cooperation of the donor community in support of the
Integrated Roads Project I had no parallel. It was the first time so many donors have committed
themselves to such a large common program. Unfortunately, in IRP 1, it has not been easy to
maintain the interests of all donors' cooperation during implementing phase as each donor focus
on execution of its own mini program under the parallel financing arrangement. In future, in
large investment supported by several donors, a professional coordination managed by the
government should be established, with agreed terms of references.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                  Page 16
Implementation Completion Report                           Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
*  Technical and Financial Audits.  The Government should among other things, carry
performance technical and financial audits of the works carried out. Such audits should, besides
frequently revisiting the overall status of implementation, also include verification of the physical
and financial targets.
*  Initial Successes in Long-term Program. Usually during the initial phases of project cycle of
large programs, there is high optimism of the team involved and there is a tendency to
underestimate the operation environment of the specific country for which the project is
designed, even when there are potentially implementation problems. Initial successes usually
mask deficiencies related to preparation, selection of contracts and judgements of capacities. It
is therefore important that project implementor should not be taken in by an initial euphoria and
ensure that measurable output targets are met. The project should have well defined qualitative
and quantitative indicators, which should be adequately designed so that any deviation from
initial targets can be detected and corrected in real time.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                         Page 17
Implementation Completion Report                                              Part II: Statistical Tables
TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT (IDA COMPONENT)
(CREDIT 2149-TA)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                   E             El           x
Sector policies                          E             X            E                E
Financial objectives                     D             X            a                E
Institutional development                             x            El 
Physical objectives                                    X            E                E
Poverty reduction                        E             X            E                E
Gender issues                            Cl            0            E                X
Other social objectives (Donor           E             X            a                E
coordination)
Environmental objectives                              El            X                a
Public sector management                 O             x            E                E
Private sector development               O             X                             El
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
El                 El                   X
C. Bank Performance                    Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                El                    XE
Preparation assistance                       E]                     X 
Appraisal                                                          E                  X
Supervision4                                  E                    E                  X
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                   El                    x                 a
Implementation                                El                    El                X
Covenant compliance                            l                    E                 x
Operation (if applicable)                                           E                 El
E. Assessment of Outcome*        Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
n               El               X                 O
4 marginally



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                     Page 18
Implementation Completion Report                                           Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANSICREDITS
Credit Title                     Purpose                Year of          Status
approval
Preceding Operations:
1. First Highway Project (Cr.   Construction of six road sections with    1964  Completed. Project
48-TA/Cr. 115-TA, US$17.0    detailed engineering work                    closed in July 1973
million)
2. Second Highway Project   Construction of 499 kms of Tanzania    1969   Completed. Project
(Ln. 586-TA/Cr. 142-TA,     Highway                                       closed in December
Second Highway Project,                                                   1978
US$22.5 million)
3. Third Highway Project    Paving of the road between Mtwara and  1971   Completed. Project
(Cr.265-TAILn.586-TA, US$6.5  Massasi and pre-investment studies          closed in December
million)                                                                  1978
4. Fourth Highway           First phase of establishing a trunk road   1977  Completed. Project
Maintenance Project (Cr. 507-  maintenance studies.                       closed in December
TA, US$10.2 million)                                                      1985
5. Trucking industry        Strengthen the operating capability,  1977    Completed. Project
Rehabilitation and          management and management                     closed in December
Improvement Project (Cr.    information systems of selected               1998
743-TA, US$15.0 million)    companies through procurement and
rehabilitation of trucks
6. Fifth Highway Project (Cr.  Second phase of establishing a trunk       Completed. Project
876-TA, US20.5 million)     road maintenance organization                 closed in December
1989
7. Sixth Highway            Reduce transportation costs by        1986    Completed. Project
Rehabilitation Project      rehabilitating most important sections of     closed in June 1994
(Cr. 1668-TA, US$50.0 million)  the highway network; improve the
system of road maintenance works by
increasing the contractors; assist and
expand capacity and efficiency of the
trucking industry; and increase the
availability of trained engineers in
Tanzania;
Following Operations
1. Integrated Road Project II  Strengthen the capacity of the MCW to  1994    Ongoing
(Cr. 2598-TA, US$170.2      manage road maintenance program
million)                    and to execute road rehabilitation and        Project restructured in
upgrading works.                             August 1998.
Reallocation in January
El Nino emergency rehabilitation              2000 with project
program of trunk, feeder roads and            completion date
major bridges.                                extended until June
2003.
Emergency resurfacing of Kilimanjaro
airport
Design of Singida-Shelui Road Section
along central transport corridor.
Preparation of 10YRoad Sector
Investment Program and several sector
studies: transport masterplan,
environmental guidelines, etc.
Source: IDA Project File



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                    Page 19
Implementation Completion Report                                          Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date actual!
Steps in project cycle            Date planned                  Latest estimate
Identification/First Mission/  N/A
Appraisal                   June 1989                      June/July, 1989
Negotiations                January 29,1990                April 10 to 13, 1990
Board presentations         May 20, 1990                   May 31, 1990
Signing                     September 1990                 September 28,1990
Effectiveness               December 28, 1990              March 15, 1991
Mid-term Review             November 1992                  November 20,1992
Project completion          December 31, 1998              December 31, 1998
December 31,1999              December 31, 1999
Loan closing                June 30,1999                   June 30,1999
Source: IDA Project File
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT-CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97    FY98    FY99    FOO
Appraisal      12.93  41.23  75.53   114.12   142.41   163.86  175.86  181.00  181.00  181.00
estimate
Actual         11.40  20.48  46.19  75.31      110.94  137.15  148.64  153.08  159.55  166.70
Actual as % of  - 88.2  49.7   61.2   66.0     77.9    83.7    84.5    84.6    88.0    92.1
estimate
Date of final disbursement was December 21, 1999. And the amount cancelled was USD31,165,978.54
Source: IDA Project File



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                    Page 20
Implementation Completion Report                                          Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Training Under IDA Credit
A. Trained Staff Abroad
(I) Long Term
SIN                           Course                              Year        Total Trainees
I      M.SC. Highway Engineering                                   1992-94               9
2.     M. Sc. Human Resource Management                            1992-95               4
3      M. Sc. Construction Management                              1994/95               3
4      M. Sc. Bridge Engineering                                   1994/95               1
5      M. Sc. Traffic Engineering                                  1994/95               1
6      M. Sc. Environment Engineering                              1994/95               1
7      P.G. Highway Engineerng                                     1995/96               2
8      M. Sc. Transport Economy                                    1994/95               2
9      M. so. Mechanical Engineers                                 1991/92               2
Total                                                                            23
(11) Short Term
1      Material Management                                            1992               1
2      Financial Management                                        1992/95               7
3      Maintenance of survey Equipment                                1992               1
4      Computerized Accounting Systems                                1993               1
5      Public financing                                               1994               1
6      Road maintenance                                               1992               7
7      Records Management                                             1994               1
8      Traffic safety                                                 1994               1
9      Mgt. Development for Executive Assistants                      1992               4
10     Advanced Mgt. For Executive Assistants                         1994               3
11     Human Resource Management                                      1995               4
12     Technical Audit                                                1995               3
13     Effective Chief executive Program                              1995               2
|______-__              Total                         ______________ot l36
B. In-country Training
(I) Long Term
1_______ |M. Sc. Highways Engineering (10 @batch)    _                 1994/97              40
(II) Short Term
1      Financial management for Accountants (REDMA)                   1994             120
2      Procurement of civil Works (ESAMI)                             1992             120
3      Transport Planning for District Engineers and District
Planning Officers (ESAMI)                                     1995              100
4      Computer courses for senior staff (IDM)                        1993              13
5      Computer course for secretaries (IDM)                          1993              26
Total                                                   379
Source: MOW



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                 Page 21
Implementation Completion Report                                       Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Trained Staff Under IDA Credit
Present    | Transferred   Retrenched/  Death       Abscond      Total
I Retired
(I) Abroad
Long Term             11            5                         iT           1           23
Short Term            14          11             5            1            1           32
Total                 25           16           10            2            2           55
(11) In Country
Long Term            38                                       2            -           40
Short Term   1      336            32            8            3                       379
Total      1         374           32            8            5                       419
Source: MOW
TABLE 5C: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PEHCOL (Plant and Equipment Hire Co. Ltd.)
Activity                                                No. of Plants    No. of Vehicles
1. Various equipment were "rehabilitated" using dealers workshops  15                7
and PEHCOL's Central Workshop at Morogoro
2. Major Repairs                                                   35                12
3. Upgrading at sight and various Branch workshops                 19               47
Current Status                                               Operative     Non-operative
________________     (repairable)
1. Plants                                                          53               24
2.Vehicles                                                         35                9
Total IDA credit utilized                                      US$11,450,562 (Nov. 1999)
Source: PEHCOL, Nov,1999
TABLE 5D: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ROAD FUND EXPENDITURE ON ROADS (TANZANIAN SHILLINGS)
FINANCIAL   RATE OF    I RP TARGET  GOVERNMENT BUDGET    ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT    ACTUAL TO
YEAR       EXCHANGE                                                             IRP TARGET
TsH/US$    US$ M       TSHS. M    US$ M       TSHS. M     US$ M
1991/92    284.45      16.11                  0.0        2,036.69    7.16       44.4%
1992/93    407.43      16.11      5,167.37    12.68      5,167.37    12.68      78.7%
1993/94    501.66      18.41      7,648.60    15.25      8,515.41    16.97      92.2%
1994/95    540.82      34.30      15,187.52   28.08       16,265.56   30.08     87.7%
1995/96    561.61      34.73      17,093.62   30.44       11,000.14   19.59     56.4%
1996/97    601.25      34.91      20,000.00   33.26       15,993.94   26.60     76.2%
1997/98    620.00      36.10      20,000.00   32.22       14,999.00   24.17     66.9%
1998/99    675.82      38.80      22,250.00   32.91       15,625.00   23.12     59.6%
1999/00    750.00      41.86      26,304.00   35.07
SOURCES: PROJECT FILES & CARL BRO INTERNATIONAL A/S, COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF THE INTEGRATED ROADS
PROJECT, THIRD INTERIM REPORT- RVISED JUNE 1997, & IDA SUPERVISION REPORTS.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                    Page 22
Implementation Completion Report                                          Part 11: Statistical Tables
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
ROADS CONDITION BY SURFACE TYPE
SAR: Planned Paved Roads                  SAR: Planned Gravel Roads                     SAR: Earth Roads             Total
Total    Good         Fair      Poor      Total       Good      Fair      Poor      Total      Good      Fair      Poor      Road
__ __ ___ __ __ _Length
Km        Km          Km        Km        Km          Km        Km        Km                   Km        Km        Km         Km
FY 90191     3,567         856      1,023     1,688       2,858       286     1,143     1,429      3,204     1,429       378     1,397    9,629
% Share       100%         24%      29%        47%        100%       10%       40%       50%       100%       45%       12%       43%     100%
FY 91/92      3, 567       856      1,023     1,688       2,858       286      1,143     1,429     3,204     1,429       378     1,397    9,629
FY 92/93      3,566       1,299      934      1,333       2,877       344      1,135     1,398     3,164     1,398       376     1,390    9,607
FY 93/94      3,565       1,849      823       893        3,128       666      1,129     1,333     2,986     1,333       352     1,301    9,679
FY 94/95      3,781       2,863      664       254        3,636     1,912       934       790      2,129      790        285     1,054    9,546
FY 95/96      3,865       3,428      437         0        3,718     2,457       825       436      1,694      436        268       990    9,277
FY95/96      100%          89%      11%        0 0%       100%       66%       22%       12%       100%       26%       16%       58%
Actual     3,921.55     2,317.6   1,162.9    441.05      3,526.6      773    2,097.8     655.8   2,782.2         3       760    2019.2 10,230.35
1998/99
% Share     100%         59%       30%       11 %        100%       22%       59%       19%      100%         0        27%       73%
Total Good  Total Fair Total Poor Grand Total
Aggregate
Good       Fair     Poor        Total
Planned 199119211         2571      2544      4514         9629
Percentage Share           27%      26%       47%         100%
Actual 199819912        3,093.6   4,020.7  3,116.05    10,230.35
Percentage Share           30%      39%       30%         100%                                   .  _
Sources: 1. SAR; 2. MOW, actual April 1999.



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                  Page 23
Implementation Completion Report                                        Part Il: Statistical Tables
Table 6B: Key Indicators of Project Operation
Trunk Roads Operational Plan & Approved Budget ( sh million)
Item                                            Unit  Sources of    Physical            Financial Plan 1999100
fund          plan (km)
Local    Foreign        Total
1      Routine & Recurrent Maint, for Paved Roads  Km           GOT        3,658    3332.56        0.00     3332.56
2      Routine & Recurrent Maintenance for Unpaved  Km           Got        3827    2057.07        0.00     2057.07
Roads
3      Periodic Maintenance (50km, Resealing 140 km)    Km      GOT          190   4,260.56        0.00       4,260
4      Spot Improvements and Emergency             Km  GOT/IDAI EDF         2625    2695.45   24,904.66   27,600.11
IADB/ SDC
5    . Bridges                                     m.           GOT          210     611.56         0.0      611.56
6      Special Projects: Replacements of Vehicles,       GOT/NORAD                    588.7       646.2    1234.90
Bridge Management
7      Overhead and Administration                              GOT                  1011.5        0.00     1,011.5
Grand Total                                               _        10,300   14,557.4   25,550.86   40,108.26
Table 6C: Key Indicators of Project Operation
Rural Roads Operational Plan & Budget (Tsh million)
Item                                            Km    Source of       Km                Financial Plan 1999100
fund                     Local       Foreign     Total
1.    Routine Recurrent Maintenance                Km           GOT       13932    5,154.50                5,154.50
2.    Periodic maintenance                         Km           GOT         341    3,792.00                3,792.00
3.    Spot Improvement -Emergency                  Km        GOT/IDA      4,375    1,204.67.    3,740.00    4,944.67
4.    Bridge Maintenance                            m           GOT                  868.50                  868.50
7.    Administration and Overhead                               GOT                  913.10                  913.10
8.    Total                                                               18648   12,117.77    3,740.00   15,857.77
Source: MOW & IDA Project File



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                      Page 24
Implementation Completion Report                                           Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                  Purpose as defined at          Status        Impact of Study
appraisallredefined
1. Project Review of the   Investigate why: the present poor  Completed    Basis for review of the
Gravel Roads             condition of the road projects;                failed road condition
Rehabilitation Projects for   inordinate delays in procurement of
the Ministry of Works in  goods and services under the
Tanzania                 project; increase in costs;
inadequate drainage structures
2. Comprehensive Review of   Review of the status of        Completed       Basis of review of the
the Integrated Toads     implementation of IRP I                         status of the road
Project                                                                  project.
2. Zanzibar- Preparatory study  Prepare for Zanzibar road projects   Completed  Likely to attract IDA
financing
3. Procurement & Reg. Study   Prepare basis for sound       Completed       None
procurement practices in the country
4. Road Transport Service   Review and optimization of       Completed      Basis for RETCOs
Restructurng Study       transport services                             restructuring
5. Civil Aviation Sub-sector  Improve management            Completed       Had impacted
profitability
6. Road Fund Study          Recommendations for administrative  Completed   Basis for road fund
arrangements for collection of heavy            development
vehicles license fees and transit fees
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS - IDA COMPONENT ONLY (US$ MILLION)
CATEGORIES                    GOT        IDA     TOTAL    GOT        IDA     TOTAL
1. Trunk road rehabilitation & upgrading       12.3      69.9     82.2      10.6     60.9      70.8
2. Other roads, bridges, buildings and road     6.6      37.2      43.8      7.9     44.8      52.7
maintenance works
3. Equipment for road contractors               0.0       5.7      5.7      0.0       0.0      0.0
4. Equipment, vehicles, spare parts and materials  0.0    8.9      8.9       0.0      13.6     13.6
5. Equipment, vehicles and spare parts for private  0.0  14.1      14.1     0.0       0.0      0.0
plant pools
6. Equiprnent higher hire for road maintenance by  15.4   8.3      23.7      4.8      2.6      7.4
REOs
7. Equipment and ferry repair contracts, including  0.0   6.7      6.7      0.0      0.01      0.0
transportation
8. Consultants' services                        2.7      24.2      26.9      4.6     41.1      45.7
9. Training, seminars, fellowships and workshops  0.0     3.9      3.9       0.0      3.4      3.4
10. Project preparation fund                    0.0       1.5      1.5      0.0       1.1      1.1
Total                                 37.0     180.4    217.4    28.0    166.7    194.7
SOURCE: IDA ESTIMATES.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                      Page 25
Implementation Completion Report                                           Part Il: Statistical Tables
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING - TOTAL (US$ MILLION)
Category                             Appraisal             Actual
IDA                                                           180.4              166.70*
DANIDA                                                        57.0                80.00
FRG                                                           32.0                 54.8
ITALY                                                         91.7                 54.8
FINNIDA                                                       48.4                10.00
ODA                                                            13.6                4.8
UNDP/UNCDF                                                     2.9                 3.2
NORD                                                          36.5                 57.5
EEC                                                           171.0               193.7
USAID                                                         32.7                62.00
The Netherlands                                                18.0                25.5
Switzerland                                                    10.8                16.9
Ireland                                                        4.8                 4.8
AfDF                                                           45.2                58.9
SAUDI FUND                                                     11.8                9.9
Financing Gap                                                 33.8                 0.0
Government of Tanzania                                        80.5                 60.0
Total                                                   871.1               868.0
Source: Project Accounts , financial year 1997/98 as submitted for Audit by MOW.
* the figure for IDA is as of Dec. 21,1999.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The combined Economic Rate of Retumi for Tanga-HorhorolMaranga-Tarakea road is 29% includiiig cost of bridges
planned to be imnplemented..



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                       Page 26
Implementation Completion Report                                            Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section.    Covnt.   Present   Original   Revised              Description             Comments
Covenant    Class      Status   Fulfillment fulfillme              Of
Type                            Date    nt Date               Covenant
Section     09        C         12131/93             Borrower shall undertake a general    Complied
3.03                                                 revision of its procurement        with partially
regulations and commence          but not
implementation by Dec. 31, 1993.  implemented
Section     02        C                              Borrower shall increase its revenue    Complied
3.04                                                 collection, primarily through revenue   with.
intake from road users.
Section     02         C                             Borrower not to undertake road    Complied
3.05                                                 sector investments of more than $3.0  with partially
million unless such investment have    but not
economic rates of return of at least   implemented
12%.
Section     12        C         12/31/93             Borrower shall furnish to the     Complied with
3.06                                                 Association a plan of Action to
improve the delivery of urban
passenger transport services in Dar-
es-Salaam, including institutional
reorganization and an appropriate
price policy.
Schedule    01        CD                             Borrower shall furnish IDA certified  Complied with
4.01                                                 copies of the audit report not later  after delays
than six months after end of each
fiscal year.
Schedule4,  02        CP                             The Borrower shall carry out an   Complied with
2(i)                                                 annual review with IDA and other   partially
participating donors of the
performance under the road network
stabilization program and the next
three years of the road investment
and maintenance activities.
Schedule 4   02       CP                             Borrower to reach agreement with  Complied with
para. 2(ii)                                          IDA on the budget estimates for the    partially
following fiscal year for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the
trunk roads network and regional
networks in the core regions.
Schedule 4   04        NC                            Borrower to progressively increase its  Complied with
para. 3                                              annual contribution to funding road    partially.
maintenance, with the objective of  Governt's
fully covering road maintenance   share of road
requirements from the Borrowers   maintenance
own sources by FY1995/96.        is increasing
but not as
expected.
Schedule 4   05       C         11/30/199            Borrower shall conduct the following   Complied with
para. 4                          2                   workshops: (i) project launch
workshop; (ii) annual workshops; (iii)
annual donors conference; and (iv) a
comprehensive implementation
review workshops.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                      Page 27
Implementation Completion Report                                           Part II: Statistical Tables
Section.    Covnt.   Present   Original   Revised             Description             Comments
Covenant    Class     Status   Fulfillment fulfillme              Of
Type                            Date    nt Date              Covenant
Schedule 4   05       C                             MWCT to carry out a study to      Complied
para. 5 (b)                                          determine the feasibility of     with. Strategy
establishing CML, as a financial  has been
autonomous private plant pools which  discussed
would be allowed to charge
commercial rate for the plant hire.
Schedule 4   05       C                             Road maintenance equipment        Complied
para. 6 (i)                                         reconditioned under the project shall  with.
be consigned to MWCT's plant pool   Equipment
for hire by REOs and Contractors.    transferred to
PEHCOL
Schedule 4   03       NC                            One or more private plant pools to be  Effort
para. 6 (ii)                                         competitively selected and to be  discontinued
required to provide guaranteed   with IDA
service to MWCT for the duration of   agreement
the project.
Schedule 4   05       C                             Borrower to prepare study of details   Complied
para. 6 (iii)                                        of MWCT and private plant pools and  with.
on the basis of that to prepare an  PEHCOL
action plan for establishment of the    experiencing
autonomous private plant tools which  equipment
would be allowed to charge        management
commercial rate for the plant hire.  problems.
Schedule 4   05       C         12/31/199           Borrower shall formulate a program  Complied with
para. 7                         1                    for its vehicle weight control and road
safety programs.
Schedule 4,  06       C                             Borrower to ensure that the       Complied with
para 8                                               environmental conditions included in
the TOR for studies and conditions of
the contract for procurement of works
and goals
Source: Project file
Action Taken:                     Covenant type
C  =    Covenant complied with     1 = Account/Audits
CD =    Complied with after delay    2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
CP =    Complied with partially    3 = flow and utilization of project funds
NC =    Not complied with          4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policylregulatory/institutional action
13 = other



Tanzania: Integrated Roads Project                                                     Page 28
Implementation Completion Report                                           Part II: Statistical Tables
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title           Description and comment on lack of compliance
Appendix I of Paragraph 3 of the guidelines for procurement under IDA Credit on modification states that,
'Modifications 3. In the case of contracts subject to pdior review, before granting a material extension of the
stipulated time for performance of a contract, agreeing to any modification or waiver of the conditions of such
contract, including issuing any change in order or orders under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would in aggregate increase the original amount by more than 15% percent of the original
price, the borrower shall inform the Bank of the proposed extension, modification, or change order and the
reasons therefor. If the Bank determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of the
Credit Agreement, it shall promptly inform the borrower and state the reasons for tits determination. A copy of
all amendments to the contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for record."
The Borrower has undertaken substantial modification contrary to the above. See for detail the section on
gravel roads in this ICR.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle   0Actual
Staff week                     US$ '000
Through appraisal                           158.9                          403.3
Appraisal- Board effectiveness               11.6                           31.9
Supervision                                 406.1                          1,305.5
Completion                                   14.0                          28.00
Total                                 600.6                          1,792.7
Source: Project Data Base



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                                            Page 29
Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 Part 11: Statistical Tables
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of     Month/   Number   SW        Specialized                                    Performance Rating
project cycle   Year        of      in    staff skills   -     DO                                Types of problems
persons  field   represented
Identification/    March     6      NA    E (2), TE, FA,
Preparation     1988                       OA, PS
Appraisal      June-         10            E, TE, VT, HE    _
July,                     (2), OA, IS,
1989                       ME, AS, FA
Board
approval to
effectiveness
Supervision I    Feb.'90     4       NA   E, TE, ES, OA       -        Issues: budget, revision of procurement regulation, domestic construction policy
paper, pending consulting and civil works contracts.
Supervision II   Oct. Nov.   4             FA, PS, ES, HE,  -          Interim Procurement Guidelines and Standard Procurement Guidelines; &. new
1990                                                   organization established and key positions to be approved; PEHCOL to be
established. Implementation behind schedule; need for strengthening planing and
programming; strengthen MIS function; but, good progress in No. contracts let and
______________    _________    ________  physical progress.
Supervision III   Nov. '90   2       NA   FA, HE,          -      -    Initiating mission for TA of ATC;& Road Maintenance Initiatives Phase II.
Supervision IV   Feb. 92     1       NA   FA               1      1    Credit effectiveness was delayed from December 28, 1990 to March 15, 1991 to
allow time for: (a) standard procurement documents to be submitted to the Attorney
General of Chambers and to IDA for clearance; (b) circular implementing the interim
procurement guidelines to be submitted to IDA, together with guidelines; (c) taxation
issues to be resolved between MOF, MOW and MCT, in accordance to the interim
guideline; (d) draft bidding documents for the private plant pool to be completed to
IDA's satisfaction; (e) new organization to be implemented, and key positions filled;
(f) short listed companies to be invited to submit proposals for the public procurement
and supplies management study; and (g) submission to IDA of the adoption of the
National Construction Development Strategy. Arrangement for Technical assistance
to Air Tanzania.
Project        March
Effective      15,1991               _        _



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                                            Page 30
Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 Part I: Statistical Tables
Supervision I    May         1             FA             NA    NA   Control, monitoring and management information system to be strengthened in most
1991                                                   areas and in the Ministry as a whole. Attomey General of chambers have yet to
formally approve the Std. Procurement Documents Guidelines. Circular to implement
Interim Procurement Guidelines has yet to be issued by MOF. Proposed
reorganization awaiting presidential approval -trunk and rural roads grouped as
agreed at negotiation. PEHCOL establishment and appointment of Board not
completed.
Supervision 11   February    2       NA   FA, OA          NA    NA   Progress satisfactory, especially in civil works; but slower in road fund, REO's.
training, organization than initially anticipated. Signs are beginning to show that
management and control of program requires a little more attention especially project
controls and procedures; bureaucratic delays, increased expectation and some loss
of focus on priority activities. Special attention to equipment rehabilitation and
maintenance.
Supervision IlIl   May '92   1       NA   FA              NA    NA   RMI Road fund, RA related issues.
Supervision IV   July '92    2       NA   FA (2), PS       2     2    Management and control of the program requires more attention- strengthening
project performance through improved accounting, procurement reporting procedures
and systematic physical verification of works; contract processing time on some
recent ICB civil works tenders was reduced to about 150 days compared to more
than a year on previous tenders; 66% and 63% of targets for rehabilitation of trunk
and rural roads respectively achieved in FY91/92.
Perception in the donor community is that the release of routine maintenance funds
to the regional engineer's offices were lower than budgeted and often late; strong
management effort required to make PEHCOL operate; coordination between MOW
and MCW to allocate resources in the light of operational needs should be
strengthened; careful prioritization of investments in light of available resources is
____________   .required; more effective monitoring project performance required.
Supervision V    Sept.'92    3       NA   FA (2), HE      NA    NA   Delays and low level release of road maintenance funds- in Jan.93 govt. increase
fuel toll tax from Tsh 1 Ofiter to Tsh2O/iter; vehicle licensing & transfer fees also
increased
Supervision VI   Nov. '92    1       NA   DC              NA    NA   Mid-term. Well organized, and presentations by Govemment representatives were of
high quality. Issues: financing of road maintenance and provision of equipment for
maintenance and rehabilitation to meet donors' concems.
Supervision VII*  Mar. 93    4      17.2  FA, PS, OA, HE  2      2    Change in scope of work on Dar es Salaam roads do not have revised cost
estimates; weak contractor performance on some road packages causing delays.
PEHCOL's equipment fleet continue to deteriorate at a rapid rate; a candidate was
approved to fill the post of director general of PEHCOL.
Procurement delays due on some periodic maintenance contracts and on Mwanza-
Nzega road due to non-standard documentation and non-adherence to procedures.
Procurement study delayed substantially due to changes in consultant team
_____________  _ composition and on TOR.
* Archive is trying to locate the full SPNs for the rest of 1993 and May 1994.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                                         Page 31
Imrplementation Completion Report                                                                             Part II: Statistical Tables
Supervision Vil  Dec.       2      NA   HE, HE          S    HS   Substantial changes in scope of works and costs; there appears a need to strengthen
1994                                                 monitoring; design documentation not adequate; behind schedule as a result of
constant changes in scope of works and as a result of inadequate project design
documentation. Development fund not adequate for 1994/95; need for development
fund; road maintenance funding to be maintained to the planned level. PEHCOL
facing series problems; funds for procurement of spare parts, substantial arrears of
hiring charges from the regional engineers; frequent breakdown of its equipment
fleet; & fast deterioration.
Supervision IX   April       2      NA   FA, HE          S    HS   Engaged consultant to: reevaluate the project components; prepare contract
1995                                                 addenda for Babati area, Dar es Salaam and Tunduma-Sumbuwanga roads; plans
for funding development budget requirement for FY 1995/96 as the budget for
1994/95 was fully spent by end of second quarter. MWCT used Tsh.630 out of the
road fund to finance rehabilitation of gravel roads. Preparation of training proposals;
while substantial resources were devoted to training not enough emphasis was being
given to basic aspect of procurement and contract administration procedures
Supervision X    June       2       2.3  FA, HE          S      S    Concern on need to improve financial accounting and management, performance
1995                                                  monitoring and accountability and transparency. Design documentation not
adequate and contributed to increased cost of project implementation. Development
budget not adequate for 1995/96; counterpart funding major constraints;
maintenance funding being maintained at planned level.
Supervision XIl  Septemb     2      NA   FA, HE          U      S    Problems: addressing road maintenance funding; certain problems in areas of
er 1995                                               management of project implementation, equipment management and development
budget expenditures. Substantial cost increases on several of the rehabilitation
works, especially Babati Area Roads and Dar-es- Salaam Region Emergency Road
Program, due primary to changes in scope of works, because of inadequate original
designs; long elapsed time between original design and commencement of works;
and substantial increase in traffic. Development Budget insufficient for the 1995/96
budget.
Supervision XII  January     1       3   HE, FA          U      S    Overall project implementation performance is unsatisfactory, monthly
1996                                                  disbursements, show a downward trend. With substantial changes in the scope of
works and substantial cost increase, the adequacy of funding the credit is uncertain.
There is a need to strengthen the monitoring of project implementation. There is a
need to introduce a system to monitor these changes and associated costs to report
them to the funding agencies. Design documentation not adequate and contribute to
the increased costs of project implementation. There is need to update all non-
committed design and supervision contracts. The development budget not sufficient
to cover expected expenditure for FY95/96. Level of the maintenance funding being
maintained to the planned level. PEHCOL continues to face serious problems.
Procurement in spare parts, frequent break down of its old equipment fleet are most
seriously constraints. Need for a through review of PEHCOL's role and decision on
its future or existence.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                                         Page 32
Implementation Completion Report                                                                              Part 11: Statistical Tables
Supervision Xil  May 1996   4      3.3   HE, FA, CE, R   U     S    Govemment had been using Road Funds for rehabilitation works instead of carrying
road maintenance works; several trunk roads (gravel) were rehabilitated without
engineering designs and without Bank's no-objection; majority of them have
construction failures as a result of the construction without engineering design and
Bank's objection. Project to be restructured. Substantial cost increases have
occurred on IDA financed components; procurement and contract management
weakness including financial management & monitoring. Work program constrained
by availability of development budget resources.
Construction failures have occurred on roads which were improved under the
projects, particularly on Babati Area Tunduma-Sumbawanga and Usagara-
Lusahunga roads; Project expenditure do not reflect all expenditures incurred under
the project.
Long elapsed times between receipt of tenders and the award and commencement
of works; weakness in contract financial management and control & increase in the
scope of works during execution
Supervision XIV  Dec.96      2      0.6  HE, FA          U      U    Same as above. No change.
Supervision XV   April 1997  2      2.4  HE, FA          U      U    Lack of funding and unauthorized use of road funds for other purposes other than
maintenance. Institutional set-up to handle the volume and size of project
inadequate.
Supervision XVI  Oct. 97     3      2.9  HE, FA, TA      U      U    Same as above. No significant change
Supervision    August                                    U      U    Credit agreement amended on August 7, 1998. Major issue related to lack of financial
XVII           1998                                                  management have been addressed and mitigating measures with an agreed detailed
action plan were being implemented.
Supervision    Nov. 1998     3      0.4  HE, FA, TA      U      U    Slow progress and disbursement since June 1998. Audits of Project Accounts,
XVIII                                                                inclusive of SOE and SA for FY 96/97 submitted to IDA were seriously qualified. On
Mwanza Mogogo River Section contractor formally lifted the 'slowdown of works" on
June 20, 1998. Works done generally satisfactory.
Request for submission for Addenda for gravel roads (i) Lusahunga-Usagara Road;
(ii) (Tunduma-Liche (Sumbawanga) Road: (iii) Shelui-Singida-Babti-Bereku Road;
and (iv) Tanga-Horohor and Marangu-Tarakea Roads. No official handling of these
roads were made.
Supervision    March 1999    3            HE, FA, TA     U      U    MOW requested the financing of Tunduma-Sumbawanga (gravel, emergency) Road
XXIV                                                                 under IRP II. It was to be financed from IRP I but could not due to delays in
procurement. Several Addendum were approved for payments. Emergency support
_____________  following El Nino damages of the road network is being provided.
Supervision    July 1999     2            HE, FA         U      U    Credit closed on June 30, 1999. MOW submitted draft accounts with reconciliation of
XXV                                                                  expenditures and payments together with associated re-allocation of the credit
categories. US$ 12.9 million due to delays and about US$19 million due to exchange
rate fluctuation is expected to be cancelled.



anzania n:egra:ec ,oacs -rojec:
Implementation Completion Report                                                                                       Part II: Statistical Tables
AS =Admin. & Secretary                    TE= Transport Engineer
E = Economist                             RR =Rural Roads Transport Specialist
ES = Equipment Specialist                 VT = Vocational Training
HE = Highway Engineer                     TA= Task Assistant
FA = Financial Analyst
IS= Institutional Specialist
PS = Procurement Specialist               DC- Division Chief
OA = Operation Analyst
00 = Operation Officer



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                  Page 34
Implementation Completion Report                                                      Part II: Statistical Tables
ANNEX A: SUPPLEMENTARY STATSTICS
TABLE 1: REALLOCATION OF CREDIT 2149-TA
No   Category                 SAR (SDR)   Revision I    Revision II   Disbursed    Disbursed (USD)
Sep.20, 90   (SDR) Aug.  (SDR) 12     (SDR) Jan17,  Jan. 17, 00
21, 91      Oct, 92      00
Trunk road rehabilitation and
upgrading
la   Lusahunga-Usagra;         20,700,000    20,700,000    20,750,000   17140089.13  24,019,758.43
Tunduma-Luiche; Shelui-
.____  Berku
1.b  Tabora/Nzega/-Singida     14,300,000    14,300,000    10,000,000    7068230.61  10,063,339.33
border; &Dodoma-Singa
1.c  Mwanza-Usagara-Nzega;     13,600,000    13,600,000    15,100,000   13140276.28  18,889,349.08
and Sonea-Masai
1.d  Rehab. Tanzam 2, 4 & 5          0.0    6,600,000     6,500,000    4952731.92     7,123,949.78
2.   Other roads, bridges,     26,000,000    26,000,000    29,200,000   31281793.98  44825,732.32
buildings and road
maintenance works                                                            ,
3.   Equipment for road         3,900,000    3,900,000   3,900,000           0.0              0.0
contractors                                                             7
4.   Equipment, vehicles, spare  6,200,000   6,200,000    12,580,000    947,423.25   13565,367.93
parts and materials
5.   Equipment vehicles and     9,800,000    9,800,000         0.0  ,        0.0              0.0
spare parts for private plant
pools
6.   Equipment hire for road    5,800,000    5,800,000   5,800,000    1,818294.51     2,611,051.67
maintenance by REOs
7.   Equipment and ferry repair  4,600,000   4,600,000   4,600,000      4,350.81         6,332.34
contracts including
transportation
8   Consultant services        16,900,000    16,900,000    27,700,000  29,004,175.60  41,149,686.25
9   Training, seminars,        2,700,000    2,700,000    3,014,000    2344055.06      3361886.72
fellowships and workshops
10   Refunding of project       1,200,000    1,200,000     770,000     769930.23      1,072,520.50
preparation advance
11.  Unallocated               14,200,000    8,200,000           0           0.0              0.0
Total                    139,900,000   139,900,000   139,900,000  117204418.64    166,698,969.78
Original Credit Principal  139,900,000                                         180,400,000.00
Amount



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                      Page 35
Implementation Completion Report                                                          Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 2: Status of IDA Financed Component as of July 1999 (US Dollars)
Category              Component Description                    Total            Total Paid
Ref.                                                      Committed           To Date
USD                USD
1 a    Lusahunga-Usagara                                       6,069,740          6,069,740
1 a    Tundoma/Luichet (Sumbawanga)                            8,702,892          8,702,892
1 a    Shelui-SingidalBabati/Bereku                            8,178,078          8,178,078
la    Sub Total: Cat la                                       22,950,710         22,950,710
lb    Tanga/Horohoro & Marangu Tarakea                         9,099,438          9,099,438
lc    Mwanza/Shiny. Bdr- Contract 1                           19,107,237         18,628,912
Id    Rehab. - Tanzam 2                                        3,999,922           3,999,922
1d    Rehab. - Tanzam 4                                        5,368,290           5,368,290
1d    Rehab. -Tanzam 5                                           96,319              96,319
1d    Sub Total: Cat Id                                        9,464,531          9,464,531
I    Sub Total: Cat 1                                        60,621,916          60,143,591
2    lCulverts and Temporary Bridges                                  0                  0
2     Per. Maint./Emerg. Works to mid-1995                   35,767,620          35,343,683
2     Renov.-MOW/MCT & REO Facilities                           672,387             613,216
2     Kyaka Bridges Civil Works                               7,741,022           7,741,022
2    Sub Total: Cat 2                                        4,181,029           43,697,921
3    Sub Total: Cat3                                                  0                  0
4     iRSAWC Program -Equipment                                 528,635             528635
4     Equipment Rehab., Plant & Vehicles                       1,902,902          1,312,027
4    CML - Laboratory Equipment                                 572,126             572,126
4     PEHCOL: Vehicles. Tyres & Spares                        6,757,682           6,757,682
4    OfficeNv.Shops, Tools & Radio NhM                          388,998             388,998
4    Vehicles, Motorbikes & Bicycles                          2,849,385           2,849,385
4    Sub Total: Cat 4                                         12,999,728         12,408,853
6     MWCT: Equipment Hire to mid-i 995                       2,567,494           2,567,494
6    Sub Total: Cat 6                                          2,567,494          2,567,494
7    Ferries - Overhaul Equip. and Spares                         6,340               6,340
7    Sub Total: Cat 7                                             6,340               6,340



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                       Page 36
Implementation Completion Report                                                          Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 2: Status of IDA Financed Component as of July 1999 (US Dollars)
8    Gravel Road Study & CODAP                                2,960,908           2,960,908
8    Zanzibar-Preparatory Study                                 762,772             762,772
8     Procurement & Reg. Study -MOF Training                  2,661,707           2,661,707
8    Mwanza/UsagaralNzega Supervision                         6,374,951           5,464,162
8    Gravel Roads Supervision                                  1,592,566          1,592,566
8    Technical Assistance to PEHCOL                           2,477,463           2,477,463
8    Management Assistance to ATC                             3,152,087           2,990,262
8     Inst. Support: Works Inspectorate                         752,776             752,776
8     REO's Mwanza & Shinyanga                                 2,603,644          2,603,644
8    Management and Administration                              401,036             401,036
8    Technical Assistance to CML                                249,259             249,259
8     Planning & Operations Management                        2,136,868           2,136,868
-8    Other Studies                                            1,421,905          1,421,905
8    MWCTI- Training TA & Equipment                             406,567             406,567
8    NCC/Contractor Training & Mngt.                            783,060             783,060
8    Construction Research                                      125,542             125,542
8     NIT-Training TA & Equipment                             1,295,181          1,295,181
8     Communications & Office Technology                        130,542             130,542
8    DTC Computer Laboratory                                    431,014             431,014
8     Bridge Design                                            2,127,443          2,127,443
8    Kyaka Bridge Supervision                                  1,098,974          1,098,974
8    Per. Maint./Emerg. Works Supervision                     4,286,415           4,286,415
8    Tanzam Supervision                                        1,085,599          1,085,599
8     Morogoro/Dodoma Reseal Supv.                              269,976             269,976
8    Assistance to NTC, RETCO's                                1,946,168          1,946,168
8    Study for Dodoma - Minjingu                                 61,676              61,676
8    lAssistance for DSM Passenger Trans.                       363,325             363,325
8    Sub Total: Cat 8                                        41,959,424          40,886,810
9     MWTI Programme - Training Facilities                      235,518             235,518
9    MWCT/M,P,T - Seminar/Workshops                             875,798             875,798
9          - Overseas Training                                 1,408,996          1,408,996
9          - Local Training                                     658,748             658,748
9    LBWT - Training Equipment                                  772,739             772,739
9    NIT - Training Facilities                                  122,976             122,976
9    Sub Total: Cat 9                                         4,074,775           4,074,775
10    Project Preparation                                      1,072,521           1,072,521
10    Sub Total: Cat 10                                        1,072,521           1,072,521
GRAND TOTAL:                                           167,483,226        164,858,306
Original Credit Principal amount                   180,400,000
Amount to be Canceled                              12,916,774
Note 1: In addition to the canceled amount, about US$19 million will not be utilized
Note 2: Total paid to date represents payments processed to date by the Project.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                                  Page 37
Implementation Completion Report                                                      Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 3: Project Expenditure as of June 30, 1998
Source for Fund                                   SAR estimates   Estimated Final    Variation (%)
(USD)          (USD)             (USD)
Other Donors
A. Institutional support                              34,392,700      72,064,513.0            210
B. Rehabilitation                                  386,112,700.00    509,618,834.47           132
C. Maintenance                                              0.00             0.00
D. Transport                                                0.00             0.00
Sub-total                                          420,505,400.00    581,683,347.47           138
IDA
A. lnstitutional support                            30,173,000.00    38,748,879.99            128
B. Rehabilitation                                     84,956,400     49,063,225.65             58
C. Maintenance                                      60,278,300.00    56,373,894.62             94
D. Transport                                         5,016,900.00     5,218,118.46            104
Sub-total                                          180,424,600.00    149,404,118.46            83
Tot Donors expenditures                            600,930,000.00    731,087,465.93           122
Source: Carl Bra Intemational a/s Comprehensive Review of the Integrated Roads Project, Third Interim Repor Revised, June 1997



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                        Page 38
Implementation Completion Report                       Annex B: ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Annex B
The United Republic of Tanzania
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2149-TA)
Implementing Completion Reporting Mission
Aide-Memoire
November 2-18, 1999
1.   The Integrated Roads Project I became effective on March 15, 1991 and closed on June
30, 1999 following a one-year extension from the original closing date of June 30, 1998. From
the standpoint of lessons learned, the implementation experence of IRP I can be very valuable.
A careful review of the implementation environment which by most account, led to less than
outcome than would have been expected otherwise, warrant the attention of all concerned in the
development of Tanzania road sector. However, despite difficult operating environment facing
project implementation, the project has had significant impact on transport operation. Overall
vehicle operating costs and travel time has reduced. Significant number of staff has been trained.
Under the project initiatives such as the Zanzibar's ZIROP Study covering road network, road
financing and institutional reforms for Zanzibar for FY 2000-2009 have been successfully
completed. IRP I will have relevant lessons of experience for the Zanzibar project.
1. The Scope of the Project
2.   The Integrated Roads Project' (IRP 1) was the largest single donor supported infrastructure
and capacity building project in Africa. With a total cost of US$ 871.1 million, the project was to
be parallel financed by Government of Tanzania with the support of IDA, DANIDA, Federal
Republic of Germany, Italy, FINNIDA, ODA (UK), NORD, EEC, USAID, The Netherlands,
Switzerland, Ireland, the African Development Fund, UNDP, and the Saudi Fund. The donors
committed themselves to contribute an initial amount of US$790.6 million. The Govemment of
Tanzania, in addition to meeting the annual road maintenance budget requirements, also
committed itself US$ 80.5 million towards counterpart financing of the Project. At the launching of
the Project there was thus only US$33.8 million financing gap.
3.   The primary objective of the IRP I was to restore Tanzania's trunk and regional road
networks which have proved to be obstacle to the sustainability of the economic recovery
program the country was undertaking; and to develop MOWs institutional capacity to properly
manage the road networks. The project was justified on the ground that reduction of transport
costs and accessibility to the primary agricultural areas were essential to the economic recovery
of Tanzania and the structural reforms underway.
4.   IRP I represented a significant challenge to the Govemment, the implementing agencies
and the participating donors. Under IRP I, some 1,700 km of paved trunk roads were planned to
be rehabilitated or resealed representing 61% of the total Project cost with overall ERR estimated
at 24%; and 2,550 km unpaved trunk roads with an overall ERR of 19%; and some 3,000 km of
regionaVruraV/ roads in eleven of the regions representing 30% of the total roads with estimated
ERR of 37%. IRP I targets were to transform 60% of the trunk roads into good condition from the
then level of 15%; and to improve to good condition regional roads to 50% from the 10% level for
the network in the eleven regions. Some 30 bridges, minor structures and 10 ferry vehicular
crossings, renovation of MCW head quarters, REO offices, and upgrading office technology were
to be financed. Also, road maintenance support program including establishment and equipping
of privately operated plants pools, rehabilitation of existing equipment and road maintenance by
contract, hiring of equipment from plant pools, and emergency works were to be undertaken.
' The name "project" is a misnomer. The term "program " would have been a more accurate description.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                        Page 39
Implementation Completion Report                      Annex B: ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Most important, under IRP I, GoT was to institute regular maintenance on 80% of the trunk roads
and 60% of the regional network.
5.   Institutional support to strengthen Tanzania's road management capacity including support
to MCW management and the regional Engineers offices, domestic contractors, University of Dar
es Salaam Engineering Faculty, Arusha Technical College, Central Laboratory, technician
training at the Morogoro Training Institute, road safety program, labor based construction
methods, revision of Government procurement regulations, and project coordination. Technical
assistance to National Transport Corporation, Regional Transport Corporations and to improve
Dar es Salaam passenger transport. The project had also a component to provide management
assistance to Air Tanzania Corporation. In brief, the project as designed had too many
components dealing with very many issues with many actors on the scene.
II. Views of the Stakeholders
6.   The mission has opportunity to solicit the views of implementing agencies, donors and the
beneficiaries of IRP I. All agreed that the project was not only large in investment size but also
complex as evidenced from the scope of the project. Because of the long project cycle of IRP I,
1988 to 1999 from inception to completion, there are not many left in Dar es Salaam among those
who played part in the implementation of IRP I. Moreover, institutional memory was also weak.
What follows is the composite view of the development issues that emerges from synthesis of the
views of various stakeholders in the implementation experience of IRP I.
7.   For some, the project was not focussed and difficult to manage. What made the project
more complex and challenging to implement even more than the large number of components,
was the difficult implementation environment the country had found itself in its transition to market
economy. Moreover, many of the underlying assumptions, which were deemed essential at
appraisal to the success of the project, did not materialized on time. Implementation capacity to
undertake procurement and technical management of the project was not ready when the project
was launched. Incentives to the implementing agencies staff were either inadequate or non-
existence to mobilize the human resources to implement the project within budget and on
schedule. Counterpart funding was not available when it was wanted and in the amount needed;
the economy was experiencing fiscal imbalances and inflation. The rate of donors' funding in-
flow over the implementation period was not reliable and was not forth coming as was expected
at the beginning of the project. These and other constraints created unfavorable implementation
environment with significant adverse impact on the sector and the economy as a whole. As noted
above, the diverse scope of the Project also added to the complexity of its implementation.
Moreover, achieving effective donor coordination, addressing cross cutting institutional issues in
the areas of commercialization, capacity building, road fund, reorganization, and public-private
operations, add to the complexity of the implementation environment.
8.   In light of the complex and unfavorable implementation environment, achieving the
physical targets set at appraisal within budget and timeframe at a satisfactory level of quality had
proved to be quite a difficult challenge.  Most important, the original targets were made
unattainable by the reduced resource in-flows of the donors and the government counter part
funding. The resource in-flows expected from the donors were not available for disbursement
when they were needed and where available were not disbursed in the amount desired due to
lack of counterpart funding.  The Government was facing continued difficulties either in
generating and/or in availing resources for road maintenance and rehabilitation. Some attribute
the shortage of counterpart funding partly due to crowding of its budget with expenditures of
lesser priorities. Nevertheless, throughout project implementation counterpart funding remained
a major concern among the donors. Also during implementation donors were concerned about
the adequacy of maintenance funding. In fact it was GOT's commitment to provide adequate and
sustainable resources for maintenance which was the primary factor which drew donors as
partners in IRP I in the first place. However, maintenance fund was not available at the amount



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                          Page 40
Implementation Completion Report                        Annex B: ICR Mission Aide Memoire
needed as committed at the start of the project. For many donors, adequate maintenance
funding and appropriate institutional set-up were the key issues, which needed for addressing the
transport issues facing the country. The corrupt practices reported in the Warioba Commission
Report on Corruption, 1995/96 and in views of donors subsequent delayed action by GoT to deal
with the issues raised in the Report, for the most part cooled donor's response to IRP I.
Procurement problems and deficient contract management further complicated the situation as
did inflated construction costs both on account of poor contract management; exchange rate
depreciation and delayed interest charges due to the continued deterioration of the economic
condition.
In-flow of Development Expenditure for IRP I
Year  89/90   | 90/91    91/92   | 92/93    94/94    94/95    95/96    96/97
i %    | 9.71    1 11.2    13.21   1 20.37    19.08    7.21  1.27
9.   According to a 1996 government's commissioned review of the IRP I, in the first five years
of the project (1991-96) alone, some US$ 105.0 million has been utilized for institutional support
by donors participating in IRP I, mostly in an uncoordinated manner. In the construction industry,
the response of the private sector was highly positive. In anticipation of growing effective
demand for civil works contractors under IRP I fund, many new construction firms continue to be
established. However, as shown in the table above, the development budget after peaking in
1992/93, was continued declining from the peak of 20.37% to 1.27% by 1995/96. The
government disbursement of the maintenance budget, which was even more important to the
newly formed companies, was uncertain. The government was facing difficulties allocating funds
for sustaining the required level of maintenance even while operating its budget on cash basis.
The result was that many contractors were unable to find contracts in the shrinking construction
sector market. Thus, the uncertain disbursement from the maintenance fund further exasperated
the plight of the newly established firms. Many did not survive their infancy. Attempt was made to
ameliorate the plight of the new entrepreneurs through the introduction of smaller contract
packages by some donors.
10.  The condition facing capacity building of MoW was not any better. The environment, in
which the project was being implemented, here too, proved to be unfavorable. While the MoW
manpower capability was increasing, the Ministry was facing shrinking development budget
inflow. For example, the capacity building program for MoW provided opportunities for some 437
participants to get short term and long term training. Some 63 of the staff successfully
graduated with Masters of Science Degrees in civil engineering from Dar es Salaam University
and other foreign universities. The result is that MoW has now some 331 engineers with a
significant number of them with post graduate training. This represents a low ratio of km of
maintainable roads per engineer, which in it is no small achievement. However, following
graduation, because of the declining of the rehabilitation and maintenance funds flows, the
trained staff did not get the opportunity to use their training into practice immediately following
their training. Although, the individual capabilities and MOWs capabilities have increased as a
result of the training, the prevailing view to day is that the training provided had not overall as yet
translated to higher efficiency or effectiveness in MoW. In part this is attributed to the merger of
MOW and MCT to MWCT and subsequent division again to MOW and MCT, the lack of
incentives for good performers as well as due to the prevailing organizational culture. In any
case, it was the systemic problem facing capacity building in the face of shrinking effective
demand in the contracting industry, which became a focus of the ICR implementation mission
discussions.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                          Page 41
Implementation Completion Report                        Annex B: ICR Mission Aide Memoire
III. Bank Mission Observations
11.  Overall, most stakeholders appreciate and acknowledge the outcome and impact of IRP I
has achieved in terms of transport cost and travel time reductions. Because the project has been
around for more than a decade since its inception in 1988, in most institutions the relevant people
available for discussion are new to their post and there is little institutional memory. For the most
stakeholders' participants, lack of institutional memory was a handicap to make effective
contribution to the evaluation exercise. As noted above, the main issues they raised tend to
focus more on reaching an understanding of why the promise of booming private sector local
construction industry did not materialized under IRPI. Also quality of construction, particularly of
the gravel roads, cost overrun, contract management, delays in procurement and quality of
technical management, road fund, timely flow of maintenance fund, road organization were
touched. These and related issues will be further addressed in perspective in the ICR.
IV.  Operational Plan
12.  Adequate maintenance funds and timely utilization of available funds for maintenance will
be the key indicators of government commitment to the sustainability of the physical assets and
institutional capacities established under the project. The establishment of the Road Fund Board
is expected to contribute to the timely disbursement of sustained adequate maintenance fund.
13.  The mission reviewed the rolling budget for road infrastructure for 1999/2001. While
underscoring the need for provision of adequate operation and maintenance funds, the mission
was heartened to note that both at central and regional level there is acute consciousness for
road maintenance fund, particularly among the local contractors in the construction industry. They
are likely to be an important source of pressure on the Ministry of Finance in the road network
management in Tanzania.
V.   Payment after Loan Closing Date
14.  The mission has informed the implementing agencies that in accordance with the World
Bank disbursement rules in effect all expenditures incurred prior to the closing date could be paid
from the loan and only for expenses submitted up to the grace period of four months after the
closing date (June 30, 1999).
VI.  Briefing & Schedule of Preparation of ICR
15.  The mission briefed staff of the various implementing agencies charged with the
responsibility of contributing to the drafting of the government evaluation report, on Bank's
requirement regarding government contribution to the ICR on the need of building capacity in
evaluation and monitoring. The mission had followed on the July, 1999 supervision mission that
requested the borrower to proceed with the preparation of its contribution to the ICR.
16.   The individual implementing agencies have completed their evaluation and provided their
input to MoW. MoW will prepare and submit the borrower's contribution to the ICR to IDA by
December 6, 1999. The mandatory last date for delivery of the ICR to World Bank executive
Board is December 31, 1999. It was agreed to complete the preparation of the ICR for delivery to
the Board based on the following schedule:



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                           Page 42
Implementation Completion Report                        Annex B: ICR Mission Aide Memoire
Agreed Schedule of ICR Delivery.
*  Data on Operational Plan of IRP I              November 30, 1999
*  Post construction ERR re-estimates             December 10, 1999
*  Borrower contribution to the Bank              December 16, 1999
*  Draft ICR for intemal Bank management review   December 16, 1999
*  Draft ICR for Govemment Comments               December 22, 1999
*  Draft final ICR for Bank Executive Board       December 28, 1999.
VIl. Outstanding information
17.  The main outstanding information remaining is re-estimation of the post-construction
Economic Rate of return. It is agreed that the ERR re-estimates will be done only for the
subprojects financed under IDA funding and will not cover roads financed by other donors, as the
task will be difficult given the limited institutional memory and poor records management among
most parties involved in the project.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                              Page 43
Implementation Completion Report   Annex C: Borrower's Contribution and Comments to ICR
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT - 2149 - TA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
MINISTRY OF WORKS
DECEMBER 1999



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                          Page 44
Implementation Completion Report          Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
INTRODUCTION
1.    Integrated Roads Project (Cr. 2149-TA) was effective on 15 March 1991 and closed on
30th June 1999 after a one year extension from original closing date of 30th June 1998.
Until July 1994 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was referred to as Project
Completion Reports (PCR) and was spelled out in the Credits as the obligation of the
Borrower to prepare the draft in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The Operational
Policies 13.55 of April 1994 which supplements SVPOP/COD No. 8 of June 1989
provides under item 3 that the Borrower prepares and avails to the Bank its own
evaluation report within six months after the CLOSING DATE on the project's execution,
initial operations, cost and benefits, the Bank's and the Borrowers performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the extent to which the purposes of
the loan were achieved. Lessons learned during implementation of IRP I are valuable for
future projects.
2.     Prior to Integrated Roads Project there were six highways project. First highway (1964)
had problems namely (i) delays and reluctance in recruiting; (ii) cultural and language
problems experienced; and (iii) shortage of adequately qualified local staff. These
problems persisted until the fifth highway project and were partly resolved in sixth
highway project and IRP I
3.    The areas which the report will concentrate on will be (i) project execution; (ii) initial
operations of the project; (iii) costs of the project (IDA as well as other Donors); (iv)
benefits derived from the project; (v) borrower's performance; (vi) Bank's performance;
and (vii) accomplishments of the project.
PROJECT EXECUTION
4.    Integrated Roads Project components which were prepared during 1988 and 1989 with
financial assistance from several donors, covered requirements for rehabilitating and
maintaining the trunk and regional road networks, and for improving the efficiency and
safety of road transportation. As stated in staff Appraisal Report dated 6 May 1990, the
primary objective of the project is to restore Tanzania's trunk and regional road networks,
which have become on obstacle to the sustainability of the economic recovery
programme, and to develop the Ministry's institutional capacity to properly manage the
networks. In particular the Project will assist the Government in developing strong
management and technical capacity to maintain the trunk and regional networks, and
transform the MOW from a construction oriented Ministry to an administration/contractor
management oriented Ministry. The physical target was to have, by 1996, 60% of trunk
roads in good condition from the current (1990) 15% and to selectively rehabilitate the
regional road network in eleven of the most agricultural productive regions to have 50%
of the network in those regions in good condition from the current (1990) 10% and to
install regular maintenance on 80% of the trunk and 60% of the regional road networks.
For the execution purposes, the project was divided in four major parts which are:
(a)   Institutional Support
(i)    strengthening MWC departments and divisions involved in contract administration, road
and equipment maintenance and management, planning, budgeting and monitoring of
trunk and regional roads programs, as well as policy, feasibility and engineering studies
in the transport sector;
(ii)   instituting procedures in the REOs' in at least the eleven core regions, for administration
of trunk and regional road rehabilitation and maintenance programs;



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                            Page 45
Implementation Completion Report           Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
(iii)   renovation of facilities, provision of training equipment and improvement of civil
engineering courses at UDSM Engineering Faculty, as well as an increase in the number
of students;
(iv)   renovation of facilities, provision of training equipment and improvement of highway
technicians courses at Arusha Technical college;
(v)    re-equipment MCWs Central Materials Laboratory (CML) and provision of training and
technical assistance to its testing and research program, including soil testing assistance
to REO;
(vi)   training in highway management, and road and equipment maintenance, including
expansion of MCTI's facilities and training programs;'
(vii)  formulation and implementation of a road safety program, including vehicle weight
control, and traffic management;
(viii)  coordination of project implementation and establishment of a management information
system for the monitoring of activities at headquarters and the REOS;
(ix)   renovation of MWC headquarters, CML and REOS, construction of housing for REO
staff, and upgrading office technology and communications;
(x)    revising the Government's procurement regulations, reorganizing materials supply
management, and training in procurement for staff of MCW, Attorney General's
Chambers and Tender Boards;
(xi)   continuation of assistance to domestic contractors to undertake an increasing share of
road rehabilitation and maintenance works, including development of labour-based
technology; and
(xii)   conversion of NIT's vocational training programs into more practical and shorter courses
to satisfy the demand of the transportation industry.
(b)    Rehabilitation Program
(i)    rehabilitation of about 1,080 km and overlay or resealing of about 620 km of
paved trunk road; rehabilitation or improving of about 2,550 km of unpaved trunk
roads, and upgrading to paved road standards of about 340 km with bridges and
structures;
(ii)   rehabilitation or replacement of about 30 other bridges, and repair of minor
structures along trunk roads;
(iii)   improvements to about 10 vehicular ferry crossings; and rehabilitation of about
3,000 km of regional roads, principally in the core regions.
(c)    Maintenance program
(i)    acquisition of equipment, vehicles, initial stock of spare parts, and workshop
items for privately operated plant pools;
(ii)    acquisition of equipment, vehicles, initial stock of spare parts, and workshop
items for the MCW plant pool;



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                         Page 46
Implementation Completion Report          Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
(iii)   acquisition of spare parts and materials for, and rehabilitation of, road
maintenance equipment;
(iv)   equipment hire for road maintenance undertaken by the REO; and
(iv)   contracted road maintenance and emergency works.
(d)    Freight, Passenger and Air Transportation
(i)    strengthening ATC's management capability; and
(ii)   strengthening the management capability of NTC and its affiliates - RFTCOs and
UDA
Achievement on above components are explained under accomplishments of projects
(para 22 to para 3 1).
INITIAL OPERATIONS OF THE PROJECT
5.    Policy objectives related to the Integrated Roads Project (IRP) were originally presented
by the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania at the Transport Sector Donor's
Conference at Arusha in December 1987. The policies were refined during preparation
of IRP and were presented in greater detail to the consultative meeting, at Paris in
December 1998.
(i)   In 1990, Tanzania embarked on a 10-year Integrated Roads Project, called IRP, which
aims to radically transform the condition of the trunk and regional road network from one
having the poorest pavement conditions in the sub-region to one which is no longer
bottleneck to the country's economic development, and that can be sustainably
maintained.
6.    IRP I started in 1990 but since some roads spilled over from sixth Highway Project
(TANZAM Sect. 2 and 4) it can be said that the initial IRP I operations started in 1987.
Pre-qualification of contractors to undertake the civil works was completed by January
1987, followed by invitation to bid and planning for starting of the civil works on sections 2
and 4 of the Tanzam Highway in August 1987.
7.    The rolling budget for road infrastructure maintenance for FY 1998/2000 in Tsh. is as
follows:
FY 98199     FY 99/00      FY 00i01
Trunk Roads         12.25bn       16.86 bn     20.07bn
Rural Roads         10.0 bn       12.1 bn      16.4bn
However currently total funds required for maintenance is Tsh. 60 bn per year.
8.    In order to redress the issue of inadequate funds for road maintenance and to sustain
benefits of operations, GOT has:
(a)    passed an act to ring fence Road Fund for road maintenance (90% of Road Fund) and
development (10% of Road Fund) in order to redress in adequate funding for road
maintenance;



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                         Page 47
Implementation Completion Report                   Annex C: Borrower's Contribution and Comments to ICR
(b)     is in process of establishing of TANROADS Agency in order to redress inefficiencies in
institutional structure for road administration;
(c)     increasing technical capacity to carry out maintenance and manage contracts.
COST OF THE PROJECT
9.      The total original project costs was estimated as US$ 871.1 million including taxes and
duties. 17 agencies contributed towards the above costs, 16 of them were Donor
Agencies whereas the seventeenth was Government of Tanzania as the borrowers
contribution to the project. Donors to this project are shown in Table 2.
Table 1: Summary of Project cost by component
COMPONENT                                Planned Amounts in US$ Million
Local              Foreign           Total
Institutional Support                                    10.6               37.8           48.4
141.8             436.3          578.1
Rehabilitation Program                                   22.8               46.2           69.0
Maintenance Program                                       1.1                41             5.2
Freight and Passenger Transport                           _                 -
Total Base Cost                                   176.3             524.4          700.7
19.4               59,           79.0
Physical Contingencies                                   23.3               68.1           91.4
Price Contingencies                                      4.                127.7 
42.7
TOTAL COST                  219.0              652.1          170.4
SOURCE                                            Planned Amounts                 Actual Amounts
in US $ Million                   US$m
Local         Foreign        Total           Total
IDA                                           24.7          155.7         180.4              167.3
DANIDA                                        11.4           45.6          57.0               80.0
FRG                                            0.6           31.4          32.0               54.8
ITALY                                          0.0           91.7          91.7               54.8
FRQNMA                                         9.9           38.5          48.4               10.0
ODA                                            1.8           11.8          13.6                4.8
LTNDP                                          0.6            2.3           2.9                3.2
NORAD                                          7.4           29.1          36.5               57.5
EEC                                           37.5          133.5         171.0              193.7
USAID                                         32.3            0.4          32.7               62.0
The Netherlands                                4.0           14.0          18.0               25.5
Switzerland                                    0.9            9.9          10.8               16.9
Ireland                                        1.8            3.0           4.8                4.8
AFDF                                           2.7           42.5          45.2               58.9
SAUDIFUND                                      0.0           11.8          11.8                9.9
Financing Gap                                  2.9           30.9          33.8              60.0*
GOVERNMENT                                    80.5            0.0          80.5                9.3
Kuwait                                          0               0            0
TOTAL                                        219.0          652.1         871.1              868.0
* The actual GoT input is estimates.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                            Page 48
Implementation Completon Report            Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
Total donor input to main programme is shown in table below
Total Donor Input  SAR estimates US$ m   Final US$ m
Components
A. Institutional
Support                      54.3           104.8
B. Rehabilitation              672.0           616.6
C. Maintenance                  60.2            80.0
D. Transport                    5.0              6.6
Sub Total                      790.6           821.1
GOT (estimated final is         80.5            60.0
a rough estimate)                                   I
Grand Total                    871.1           868.0
10.   Actual project cost for many donors (except for few donors like FRINMA, IDA) were
above the appraisal estimates. Delays in procurement, implementation and change in
priority for some donors attributed to their actual financing being below the planned Staff
Appraisal estimates.
BENEFITS DERIVED FROM THE PROJECT
11.   There are a number of benefits which emanated from the projects. The first and foremost
is the rehabilitated road sections thus reducing tremendously-the vehicle operating costs
and increasing the user benefit. Journey times have been reduced by almost half of what
it used to be before the rehabilitation. Products movement have been eased. The project
included a road sector institutional study which resulted into a major institutional change.
Establishment of TANROADS and Road Fund Board is a result of this study.
12.    The basis of the Integrated  Roads Project (IRP) was conceived during the
implementation of Cr. 1688-TA. The study (feasibility and detail engineering) of the
Chalinze- Segera - Tanga and Segera - Moshi - Arusha road was undertaken during the
implementation of the same project and the outcome of these studies are clearly visible
benefits to the borrower.
13.   Training as conceived under the project was very successful and beneficial.  The
implementation capacity in the Ministry of COMWORKS was found to be inadequate
hence the previous projects (Credits 507-TA and 876-TA) addressed the problem by
assisting to train more engineer. Under Cr. 1688-TA another group of engineers was
trained in India and the Government added another 80 graduate engineers to the country.
More than twenty (20) other engineers acquired Msc degrees under the same project
while more than seventy five (75) civil engineering technicians were specifically trained in
highway construction and maintenance. Under IRP I, 33 staff graduated in masters of
Civil Engineering degrees whereas a good number received short-term training. A
significant improvement was therefore realized with respect to institutional development
which enable the Ministry to fill the vacant positions identified in previous reports.
14.   A strengthening of the Local contractor industry took place under IRP, and support in the
form of training is being provided by donors also under IRP-U. About 50 local contractors
have the capability now to carry out unpaved road rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works. Other small contractors have limited equipment holding but have the
potential for labour based road maintenance works. Under W-1 most of the periodic
maintenance works have been carried out by local contractors. Their performance in the



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                        Page 49
Implementation Completion Report         Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
execution of the contracts varies from fair to good, with only few that have performed
poorly. Local contractors' performance has been influenced, however, by a lack of
reliable road plant and equipment for hire. A steady flow of maintenance contracts from
the regions is essential for the long term development of the construction industry.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
165.  The Borrower's performance under the project has been satisfactory. There has been too
many institutional restructuring within very short period such that performance of the
Borrower is seen as insignificant when measured at sectoral level. The need for private
sector participation in improving the economy of the country cannot be overemphasized.
However, it is the speed at which the borrower would like to have realized these changes
at policy level. Under this project the Borrower used a decentralized contract
management system for road maintenance works, and at regional level for both routine
and periodic maintenance works.
16.   The policy objectives as contained in the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) prepared
in June 1982 were more realistic. For example in pursuing the road Transport Policy
Paper with an aim to ensuring that rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing assets
were given priority in the Transport Sector Investment Program the Borrower in
December 1987 called a Transport Sector donors conference to present the paper
together with another document entitled Programme for Transport Sector Recovery. In
that document the Government outlined the basic policy, institutional changes and
rehabilitation requirements for the sector in order to reestablish the road transport
infrastructure to enable it to cater for the requirements of the economy. Furthermore the
document singled out capacity building for sustainability with respect to delivery of the
transport services as a critical issue to be dealt with. First steps to restore the country's
essential road network by providing adequate funding and develop institutional capacity
for their maintenance were taken during the implementation of this project.
17.   Another major institutional reform which became an important performance indicator for
the Borrower is the agreement by the Borrower to implement the recommendations of the
study undertaken under the project. This study namely 'The Agricultural Feeder Roads
Study' and funded by DANIDA became the pivot for the institutional changes for better
performance. The Terms of Reference for the study were carefully written, and the
recommendations of the study formed the basis for the 10 year rehabilitation programme
with objectives to make administration and management of the road network
autonomous. The achievements reported under the Integrated Roads Project are partly a
result of the implementation of the study.
18.   Equally the Borrower undertook the adoption of the Market Liberation Strategy during the
implementation of the project encouragement of the local contractors in participating in
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the road infrastructure as well as using local
contractors for roadworks. Most works were done by contracting instead of the traditional
force account by MOW staff.
19.   In November 1998 the parliament of United Republic of Tanzania passed a Road Fund
Act to ring-fence Road Fund for road activities. The Road Fund Board was inaugurate in
August 1999. Chief Executive Officer for TANROADS Agency has been appointed and
will be in office by January 2000. TANROADS is expected to start in July 2000 but full
launching of TANROADS will be in July 2003. TANROADS will deal with implementation
of road maintenance and development whereas MOW will concentrate on policy issues
and strategic planning. This institutional change is expected to lead into a better road
network.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                         Page 50
Implementation Completion Report          Annex C: Borrowees Contribution and Comments to ICR
LESSONS LEARNED
20.   Overall, the Borrower learned a number of lessons relevant for the future during the
implementation of the project.
(i)    The most important lesson is the one on inadequate preparations on proper
documentation and designs that it caused a lot of delay in starting and change of
scope of works, hence cost overruns.
(ii)    Donor coordination is somehow a success on this respect hence the sound and
efficient system of exchange and flow of project information, between the
implementers, as well as donors.
(iii)    Maintenance culture and the importance of maintaining the existing infrastructure
as a means of achieving a sustainable economy was also a major lesson
learned. Donor dependence even for maintenance will cripple any effort to
maintain the upgraded network and hence the effort to preserve investments.
(iv)   Frequent merger and split of MOW and MCT had some effect to project, for
future programmes of similar nature, scope and size, more emphasis should be
put on maintaining a stable institutional organization focusing on strengthening
weak areas that would affect the output.
(v)    Another lesson we learn is that the project was more complex and challenging to
implement due to the fact that during implementation, the country's economy was
in environment of transition to market economy; the economy was experiencing
imbalances and inflation, this resulted in less counterpart funding.
(vi)   Despite investing about US$11 million for PEHCOL the issue of equipment
availability is not resolved because PEHCOL equipment bought in 1977 and
1983 are very old. For better road works activities equipment has to be made
available; there is need to revisit the availability and utilization of equipment and
plant in Tanzania.
BANK PERFORMANCE
21.   During the implementation, the Bank staff and management as a whole were very
cooperative. The project was supervised by five task managers during its lifetime.
Organizational changes in the Bank did not affect much the performance of the Bank on
the project. Unavoidable changes of the scope of the work due to delays at the beginning
and improper designs were readily attended. The most spectacular performance was the
readiness of the Bank Staff in the early years of implementation, to positively agree to
improvements on the scope of the project. This created a conducive Donor-Borrower
relationship that should be adopted in future for implementation. Donor coordination
meetings were satisfactorily held.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF PROJECTS
22.   IRP I started in 1990 and was scheduled to end in mid 1995. Due to delays in
implementation of parts of the programme the closing dates for some donors like IDA
was 30 June, 1999 although early closing dates were achieved for some donors.
Majority of components were implemented by the end of 1995.
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                       Page 51
Implementation Completion Report         Annex C: Borrower's Contribution and Comments to ICR
23.   The target for institutional support provided under this project is to have a well functioning
Organization to manage and administer the road network in Tanzania. As per SAR for
IRP-1, major shortcoming which the support should help to eliminate are (i) cumbersome
and inefficient structure for road administration (ii) a highly centralized and bureaucratic
procurement and administrative decision making process and (iii) inadequate technical
capacity to carry-out maintenance and manage contracts.
Planned input was US$ 53.34m but actual total input by all donors is US$ 104.78m (96%
increase). Under capacity building program, 63 MOW staff graduated with Masters of
Science Degrees in Civil Engineering at various universities including UDSM. Now MOW
has 331 engineers. Under this programme 374 staff participated in short term training
and thus a total of 437 staff participated in short term and long term training.
There has been some impact an institutional support eg. in establishment of Road Fund
and TANROADS, decentralisation in procurement and contract administration and
increase in technical capacity. However more support is required to have higher
institutional capacity.
REHABILITATION
24.   The total target for upgrading and rehabilitation of paved trunk roads was 1,526km. A
total of 1,454km was achieved/will be achieved, equal to 95%. Above that 500 Ian of
TANZAM were to be resealed under IRP-I. This was not carried out, but most of it has
been done under IRP-I1 with NORAD financing. The target comprised 17 road sections,
of which 1 have been completed according to, or above, the set targets. Further two
sections, Mwanza-Nyanguge (EU financed) and DSM (Wazo hill) - Bagarnoyo (Italy/EU
financed) have been committed, but are only expected to be completed by year 2000. Of
the four remaining sections the three have been included in IRP H. The section
Lindi-Mingoyo-Mtwara has not been committed by any donor ( a short section of the road
was maintained by FR4NIDA in connection with the Mingoyo-Masasi section).
25.   Of the target for gravel trunk road rehabilitation of 2,546km, only 1,129km, or 44% were
completed under IRP-1. Out of the 12 roads listed in the SAR five have been completed
according to plan, and one, Shelui-Singida-Babati-Bereku, has been partly completed
(88km out of 3 1 0 km). The remaining six roads could not be implemented due to cost
overruns compared with the SAR. These have been included in IRP-H, fully or partly, and
three of them are planned for upgrading to paved standard. Two roads (one contract),
Tanga-Horohoro/Marangu-Tarakea which were under 6'h Highway Project, were
implemented under IRP due to cost overruns of the 6d'HWP credit. Sections of five gravel
trunk roads, total 159kin, received maintenance under IDA financing, which in most cases
were in fact rehabilitation. The roads have been included in the achievements.
26.   The target for rural gravel roads was 3,000 km and, as shown in table 6.2, 3,605 km were
achieved. In addition to that 148 km of paved roads in Dar es Salaam were rehabilitated.
The bilateral donor programme had a target of 1,200km. Only 489 have been completed.
The donors for this programme have been FRINIDA, NORAD, the Netherlands, EU, SDC
and Ireland. The SAR is not specific about which donors would contribute to the
programme, and no specific commitments are mentioned in the report.
27.   According to the SAR, IDA would finance rehabilitation of 30 trunk road bridges, and of
10 ferry crossings. US$ 1.93 million were budgeted for overhauls of vehicular ferries.
One bridge, Kyaka bridge in Kagera district, was constructed under IRP-1, together with
access roads. Kyaka bridge was a major construction, clearly outside the scope of what
was intended with the bridge component, and the construction more than exhausted the



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                         Page 52
Implementation Completion Report          Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
funds budgeted. The IDA/IRP-1 1 programme contains two bridge packages for
rehabilitation, listing a total of 188 bridges with a total length of 3,977 metres.
MAINTENANCE
28.   The road maintenance programme included in the SAR for IRP-1, was to be jointly
financed by IDA and GOT. The programme includes the following main components:
IRP-1                                       Financing, US $m
Maintenance Program
IDA              GOT            Total
Road maintenance equipment                  17.14                           17.14
Equipment rehabilitation                    4.75                            4.75
Equipment hire to mid-1995                  8.27              15.37         23.64
Contract maintenance to mid-1995            19.45             3.43          22.88
Emergency work                              10.67             1.88          12.55
TOTAL                                       60.28             20.68         80.96
As mentioned above the work carried out under the components, contract maintenance
and emergency work, in reality became full rehabilitation of the selected road sections
and the output of the two components have been included in the achievements of
rehabilitation. The main reason for this change in scope of work was that the selected
roads were in such a state of repair that only full rehabilitation could bring them to the
maintainable condition. The SAR does not include any physical targets for the km of
roads to be maintained under the two components. It must be envisaged that it was
expected to be considerably more than was actually achieved, due to the fact that the
projects implemented under the two components in reality became full rehabilitation.
With regard to emergency work the SAR states that priority will be given to road failures
affecting movement of agricultural supplies and produce. However, the funds, were all
used for rehabilitation of roads in Dar es Salaam.
29.   Twenty eight (28) road project were implemented under the two components. The total
costs for these roads were US$ 81.6 of which local costs were approx. US$ 32.2m of
which GOT was required to pay US$ 16.1 according to the agreement. The total payment
from GOT is about US$ 3 1.0m, which means that GOT has paid about US$ 15m more
than its commitment. The rationale for doing so was that this would ensure more foreign
funds available under the credit, and thereby more work could be carries out, as long as
GOT paid the local costs.
An analysis of Road Fund contributions to MOW shows the following:



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                                Page 53
Implementation Completion Report              Annex C: Borrowees Contribution and Comments to ICR
Financial  Rate of    IRP        Govemment              Actual               Actual/
year     exchange    Target      Budget                 Disbursement         IRP target
TShs.JUS$    US$m      TShs.m    US$m         TShs.m      US$m
1991/92   284.45      16.11                             2,058       7.24     44.9%
1992/93   407.43      16.11      5,167     12.6         5,169       12.69    78.7%
1993/94   501.66      18.41      7,649      15.25       8,515       16.97    92.2%
1994/95   540.82      34.30      15,188    28.08        16,256      30.08    87.7%
1995/96   562.61      34.73      16,094    28.61        16,084      28.59    82.3%
1996/97   601.25      34.91      20,000    33.26        16,000      26.61    76.2%
1997/98   620.0       36.10      16,000    25.81        11,300      18.23    50.4%
1998/99   720.0       83.33*     32,250    44.79        31,777      44.13    52.9%
1999/00   780.0       76.92*     32,640    41.85
- Current funding needed for road maintenance is estimated at Tsh. 60bn.
The table shows that funding of road maintenance increased steadily from FY 1991/92 to
FY 1993/94, when the Government disbursed more than the approved budget of the
Ministry of Works in Tanzania Shillings, but it was slightly lower that the agreed IRP
maintenance target in dollar terms. In 1995/96 the government experienced a budget
deficit and could not meet its obligations with regard to the road maintenance funding
from the Road Fund. This budget deficit was more severe during FY 1996/97, where the
government managed to disburse only 76.2 percent of the total IRP target.
30.    With regard to plant and equipment, the intention of having a central pool for hire
(PEHCOL) operated on commercial basis has not yet been achieved and the availability
of equipment particularly for gravel roads rehabilitation and maintenance is not reliable,
except in those regions that benefit from the availability of MOW road workshops. In
order to ensure the sustainability of road investments, it is a prerequisite that road plants
and equipment are readily available for hire at the right time. The private sector is
apparently not yet prepared to invest in road plants and equipment partly due to lack of
capital, and partly due to uncertainty with regard to continues availability of road works,
and hence the utilization of the equipment. Donor assistance may be required to support
the Government in the procurement of the initial assets of plants and equipment. The
Government has decided to privatise PEHCOL and the privatisation process is ongoing.
FREIGHT, PASSENGER AND AIR TRANSPORTATION
31.    A total of US $ 6.58 million was provided for management assistance to ATC, assistance
to NTC, RETCOs and assistance to DSM passenger transport. Overall evaluation of TA
to NTC, RETCOs and UDA had a positive impact because most RETCOs performed well
during supervision of TA and realized profits, UDA's operation reduced losses although it
did not realize profit and skills of counterpart staff were increased. Operation of Air



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                           Page 54
Implementation Completion Report           Annex C: Borrowers Contribution and Comments to ICR
Tanzania Corporation was greatly improved during provision of TA to ATC and
computers bought under the project greatly increased the performance of ATC.
CONCLUSIONS
32.   All in all although the project was extended once for one year and there were some cost
overruns on some items for some donors the project was fairly satisfactory. The project
had significant impact on transport operation. Vehicle operating costs and travelling time
has reduced. Zanzibar ZIROP study has been successfully completed and a good
number of staff have been trained under this project.
REFERENCES
1.    The World Bank - 1990
Staff Appraisal Report No. 8367-TA - The Integrated Roads Project.
2.    The World Bank - 1994
Staff Appraisal Report No. 12536-TA - Second Integrated Roads Project.
3.    Comprehensive Review of IRP, June 1997
Revised Third Interim Report on Status of IRP.



Tanzania Integrated Roads Project                                         Page 55
Implementation Completion Report          Annex C: Borrower's Contribution and Comments to ICR
Borrower's Comments on ICR
(a) Borrower
The Borrowers comments are overall positive. According to the Borrower, the Bank's
performance was satisfactory. The supervision missions were effective, but has noted
that there were frequent changes in the Bank's management of the tasks. Most of the
comments highlighted issues already raised in the ICR which have been incorporated.
Details of the comments are in the project file.
(b) Cofinanciers.
As noted in the ICR, besides IDA, 15 other donor agencies have participated in parallel
financing of the Project. The ICR mission has contacted some of the agencies in Dar es
Salaam. The comments received from the donors are incorporated in the ICR mission
aide memoire.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 22067
SUIIORA  /  I             0 **0~~~~~~~~~~~~~U~~    ~~                                                  Lo~~~~o  v ~~KENYA
K   E N   Y  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01.PU   
R4otW  ~~~~~~~ S   tlyongo  ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~             TANZANIA
KrN Moodud          os                                                ZAMBIA i* 0
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
K-  ~ ~~~~~HooqU yL.INTEGRATED
RQADS PROJECT
r.i'       ~~COREREGION$,
R~ A  ZrasaA     A    ZONE WORKSHOPS
FIRST YEAR PROGRAM;
REHASILITATiGHNIJPGRAOE
ABORA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZNIA                                                            ON-GOING PROsECTS
K.g. ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     DD    .v  o              .                        K ILN
SECOND YEAR PROGRAM:
Worn?    - Z~~~~~NZIBA        oRSHABILITATION/UPGEAIDE
INGIDA                                                            Egggggp.~~~~~~~~~~~~ RESEAt/IMPROVE
SHIED YEAR PROGRAM,
UKWA                                                                                                               J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROOG    S OAM - REHABIL-TATION/UPGRADE!
***    RESEAL/IMPEOVE
FOURTH YEAR PIIOGRAM.
- COAST  ~~~~~~*Ogeg    REHARILITATIONIUPGRADE
PAVED TRUNK ROADS
SUMEAWANGANL,kl                                                                     j                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNP'AVED TRUNK ROADE  P0
1v    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ynooe                                      MAFIA        -     EALGD
*    onroo4o.        4-   ~~~~PORTS
A' AIRPORTS
*ilo 0,01    -----   AKE SERVICES (FERRIES)
m                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED TOWNS
* ~~~~~~orM    ~ (g   REGION HEADQUARTERS
LI  F   .*             S   ~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITALS
T. L ... k.                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION ROUNDARIES
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Z  A   M      3B  IS oI At.%'                                                                             (ZAKB   OUEg11
INDIAN~~MY 99



