Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2149 TA
                    (Integrated Roads Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 28, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2149 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1990, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Denmark
(Denmark), a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to fifty-
seven million dollars ($57,000,000) (the Danish Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower has requested from the Federal Republic of
Germany, a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to thirty-two
million dollars ($32,000,000) (the German Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
      (D)   the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Italy
(Italy), a loan in an amount approximately equivalent to ninety-one
million seven hundred thousand dollars ($91,700,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
Page  2
      (E)   the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Finland
a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to forty-eight million
four hundred thousand dollars ($48,400,000) to assist in financing
part of the Project;
      (F)   the Borrower has requested from the Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland (ODA), a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount approximately
equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand dollars
($13,600,000) to assist in financing part of the Project;
      (G)   the Borrower has requested from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand dollars ($2,900,000)
to assist in financing part of the Project;
      (H)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Norway
(Norway), a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to thirty-
six million five hundred thousand dollars ($36,500,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
      (I)   the Borrower has requested from the European Economic
Community (EEC), a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to
one hundred seventy-one million dollars ($171,000,000) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
      (J)   the Borrower has requested from the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), a grant in an amount
approximately equivalent to thirty-two million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($32,700,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project;
      (K)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands, a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to
eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project;
      (L)   the Borrower has requested from the Swiss Confederation,
a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to ten million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($10,800,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project;
      (M)   the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Ireland
a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to four million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project;
      (N)   the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (AfDF), a loan (the AfDF Loan), in an amount
approximately equivalent to forty-two million one hundred thousand
dollars ($42,100,00) and a grant in amount approximately equivalent
to three million one hundred thousand dollars ($3,100,000), to
assist in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
AfDF;
      (O)   the Borrower has requested from the Saudi Fund, a grant
in an amount approximately equivalent to eleven million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($11,800,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
Page  3
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ATC" means the Air Tanzania Corporation, established
pursuant to Establishment Order No. 45 of 1977, under the Public
Corporations Act, No. 17 of 1969;
      (b)   "MCW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communications
and Works;
      (c)   "NCC" means the National Construction Council,
established pursuant to the National Construction Council Act,
No. 20 of 1979;
      (d)   "NIT" means the National Institute of Transport
established pursuant to the National Institute of Transport Act, No.
24 of 1982;
      (e)   "NTC" means the National Transport Corporation, a public
corporation established under the Public Corporations Act, No. 17 of
1969;
      (f)   "RETCO" means a regional transport company;
      (g)   "CODAP" means the Coordination Office for Donor Assisted
Projects within MCW;
      (h)   "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year beginning July 1
and ending June 30;
      (i)   "REO" means a Regional Engineer's Office within MCW;
      (j)   "KM" means kilometers;
      (k)    "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 22, 1988, and
February 2, 1989, and September 19, 1989, and October 17, 1989,
between the Borrower and the Association;
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "UDA" means Shirika la Usafiri Dar es Salaam, the Dar es
Salaam City Bus Service;
      (n)   "MCTI" means the Morogoro Comworks Training Institute
within MCW;
      (o)   "CML" means MCW's Central Materials Laboratory; and
      (p)   "Core Regions" means the following regions, Mwanza,
Shinyanga, Kilimangaro, Tanga, Morogoro, Iringa, Mbeya, Lindi,
Ruvuma, Mtwara, Kagera.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
and thirty-nine million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 139,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Page  4
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 com-
mencing November 15, 2000, and ending May 15, 2030. Each installment
to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2010, shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
Page  5
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1 through 8, B
and C of the Project through MCW, Part A.9 through MOF, Part A.10
through NCC, Part A.11 through NIT, Part D.1 through ATC and Part
D.2 through NTC, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
transportation practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Parts A.10, A.11, D.1 and D.2 of the Project available
to NCC, NIT, ATC and NTC, respectively as grants.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) undertake a general
revision of its procurement regulations, including supply management
procedures with a view to streamlining and clarifying its
procurement procedures in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association ; and (b) by December 31, 1993,
commence implementation of the revised regulations and procedures.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall increase its revenue
collection, primarily through revenue intake from road users, with
a view to funding the increased costs of road maintenance, while
maintaining the present level, in real terms, of net contributions
to the Borrower's general revenues.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not undertake any proposed
new investment in the road sector, estimated to cost more than
$3,000,000 equivalent, unless it has an estimated economic rate of
return of at least 12%, taking into account socio-economic criteria,
acceptable to the Association.
Page  6
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1990, furnish
to the Association for its review, a plan of action to improve the
delivery of urban passenger transport services in Dar es Salaam,
including, inter alia, institutional reorganization and an
appropriate pricing policy.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year,  certified copies of
                  the reports of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  report in the case of each agency, the agency's
                  compliance with the recommendations of the
                  management letter for the previous Fiscal Year,
                  and a copy of the management letter for the
                  current Fiscal Year; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For the purposes of paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section,
the term "management letter" in respect of each agency referred to
in the said paragraph, means a letter from independent auditors
acceptable to the Association addressed to such agency and
communicating the observations and suggestions of such auditors
regarding possible improvements by such agency of, inter alia, its
accounting and financial practices, its internal financial
management and control and its operating procedures.
      (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
Page  7
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, the Borrower has:
      (a)   selected consultants to carry out the study on the
revision of procurement regulations and supply management procedures
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (b)   approved budget estimates satisfactory to the
Association for road rehabilitation and maintenance for FY
1990/1991;
      (c)   prepared the regulations for establishing MCW's plant
pool, and the bidding documents and list of prequalified companies
for the plant pools referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, all satisfactory to the Association;
      (d)   finalized the procedures and documentation for the
interim procurement regulations; and
      (e)   adopted the National Construction Industry Development
Strategy.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 9111
            Dar es Salaam,
            Tanzania
            Cable address:               Telex:
                  TREASURY                  41329
     Dar es Salaam
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            64145 (WUI)
Page  8
                                             197688 (TRT) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                        By /s/ Steven Kibona
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Stephen Denning
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Trunk road,                               100% of foreign
      rehabilitation                            expenditures and
      and upgrading                             50% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a)   for Part B.1        20,700,000
            (a) of the
            Project
      (b)   for Part B.1        14,300,000
            (b) of the
            Project
      (c)   for Part B.1        13,600,000
            (c) of the
            Project
(2)   Other roads,              26,000,000      85%
      bridges, buildings
      and road main-
      tenance works
(3)   Equipment for              3,900,000      100% of foreign
      road contractors                          expenditures
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated          % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)   Equipment,               6,200,000        100% of foreign
Page  9
      vehicles, spare                           expenditures and
      parts and mate-                           80% of local
      rials                                     expenditures
(5)   Equipment,               9,800,000        100% of foreign
      vehicles and                              expenditures
      spare parts
      for private
      plant pools
(6)   Equipment hire           5,800,000        35%
      for road main-
      tenance by REOs
(7)   Equipment and ferry      4,600,000        100%
      repair contracts
      including trans-
      portation
(8)   Consultants'            16,900,000        90%
      services
(9)   Training,                2,700,000        100%
      seminars,
      fellowships
      and workshops
(10)  Refunding of             1,200,000        Amounts due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(11)  Unallocated             14,200,000
                             ___________
          TOTAL              139,900,000
                             ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and (1) (c) until the
Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that
(i) budget allocations acceptable to the Association, for the year
in question have been made, and (ii) adequate and timely releases of
funds from the previous fiscal year's budget for road rehabilitation
and maintenance of all trunk and regional roads, have been made.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The main objectives of the Project are to strengthen the
capability of MCW to manage road maintenance programs, and to
execute an integrated package of road rehabilitation and upgrading
investments.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A:     Institutional Support
1.    Strengthening MCW departments and divisions involved in
contract administration, road and equipment maintenance and
management, planning, budgeting and monitoring of trunk and regional
roads programs, as well as policy, feasibility and engineering
studies in the transport sector.
2.    Instituting procedures in the REOs, in at least the eleven
core regions, for administration of trunk and regional road
rehabilitation and maintenance programs.
3.    (a)   Renovation of facilities, provision of training
equipment and improvement of civil engineering courses at the
University of Dar es Salaam's Engineering Faculty, as well as an
increase in the number of students.
      (b)   Renovation of facilities, provision of training
equipment and improvement of highway technicians' courses at the
Arusha Technical College.
4.    Re-equipping CML and provision of training and technical
assistance to support its testing and research program, including
soil testing assistance to REOs.
5.    Training in highway management, and road and equipment
maintenance, including expansion of MCTI's facilities and training
programs.
6.    Formulation and implementation of a road safety program,
including, vehicle weight control and traffic management.
7.    Coordination of the Project and establishment of a management
information system for the monitoring of activities at MCW
headquarters and the REOs.
8.    Renovation of MCW headquarters, CML and REOs and construction
of housing for REO staff, and upgrading office technology and
communications.
9.    Revising the Government's procurement regulations,
reorganizing materials supply management, and training in
procurement for staff of MCW, Attorney-General's Chambers and Tender
Boards.
10.   Continuation of assistance to domestic contractors to
undertake an increasing share of road rehabilitation and maintenance
works, including development of a labor-based technology.
11.   Conversion of NIT's vocational training programs into more
practical and shorter courses to satisfy the demand of the
transportation industry.
Part B:     Rehabilitation Program
1.    Rehabilitation of about 1,080 km, overlay or resealing of
about 620 km of paved trunk roads, rehabilitation or improving of
about 2550 km of unpaved trunk roads, and upgrading to paved road
standards of about 340 km, with bridges and structures, including
the following road sections:
      (a)   in FY 1990/1991, Lusahunga through Biharamulo Junction
to Usagara, Tunduma to Luiche and Shelui through Singida and Babati
to Bereku;
      (b)   in FY 1991/1992, Tabora through Nzega to the Singida
border, and Dodoma to Singida; and
      (c)   in FY 1992/1993, Mwanza to Usagara, Usagara to Nzega and
Songea to Masasi.
2.    Rehabilitation or replacement of about 30 other bridges and
Page  11
repair of minor structures along trunk roads.
3.    Improvements to about 10 vehicular ferry crossings.
4.    Rehabilitation of about 3000 km of regional roads, principally
in the Core Regions.
Part C:     Maintenance Program
1.    Acquisition of equipment, vehicles, initial stock of spare
parts and workshop items for privately operated plant pools.
2.    Acquisition of equipment, vehicles, initial stock of spare
parts and workshop items for the MCW plant pool.
3.    Acquisition of spare parts and materials for and rehabili-
tation of, road maintenance equipment.
4.    Equipment hire for road maintenance undertaken by the REOs.
5.    Contracted road maintenance and emergency works.
Part D:     Freight, Passenger and Air Transportation
1.    Strengthen of ATC's management capabilities.
2.    Strengthening the management capability of NTC and its
affiliates RETCOs and UDA.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and materials
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  12
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $30,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for road maintenance, rehabilitation and emergency
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with contractors, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association, in those cases where
local competitive bidding procedures are not appropriate.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods and materials estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $7,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Contracts for equipment and spare parts of a proprietary
nature or subject to standardization may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
5.    Contracts for the repair of equipment may be awarded after
direct negotiations with maintenance garages, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
Page  13
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall, by the beginning of FY 1990/1991
commence structural changes to MCW's internal organization, in
accordance with a plan of action satisfactory to the Association.
      (b)   MCW shall expand the scope of the Sixth Highway Project
Coordination Unit to cover implementation of this Project. CODAP
shall consist of four full-time professional staff, assisted by a
highway engineer and an accountant, all with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall ensure that key MCW staff associated
with the Project, are not reassigned in such a manner as to be
detrimental to Project Implementation.
2.    The Borrower shall by March 31 of each year: (a) carry out an
annual review with the Association and other participating donors of
(i) the performance under the road network stabilization program,
and (ii) proposals for the next three years of road investment and
maintenance activities, including physical, financial and training
aspects; and (b) reach agreement with the Association on (i) the
budget estimates for the following fiscal year for the rehabi-
litation and maintenance of the trunk road network and regional road
networks in at least the Core Regions, and (ii) the related road
maintenance strategy and annual physical targets.
3.    The Borrower shall progressively increase its annual
contribution to funding road maintenance, with the objective of
fully covering road maintenance requirements from the Borrower's own
resources by FY 1995/1996.
4.    The Borrower shall conduct the following workshops and
conferences on Project Implementation, under MCW's chairmanship: (a)
the Project Launch Workshop; (b) annual workshops involving REO
staff and MCW headquarters staff; (c) annual donors conferences; and
(d) by November 30, 1992, a comprehensive implementation review
workshop.
5.    (a)   CML shall carry out an inventory of, and essential
research on, naturally occurring road materials in Tanzania as well
as pavement performance monitoring and condition surveys.
      (b)   MCW shall carry out a study to determine the feasibility
of establishing CML as a financially autonomous unit.
6.    (a)   Road maintenance equipment reconditioned under the
Project shall be consigned to MCW's plant pool for hire by REOs and
contractors.
      (b)   The Borrower shall competitively select one or more
private plant pools which shall be required to provide guaranteed
services to MCW during the Project implementation period.
      (c)   The Borrower shall carry out a study to determine the
details of MCW and private plant pools. This study shall include,
inter alia, preparation of bidding documents, draft contracts, bid
evaluation criteria, as well as a prequalification questionnaire.
The Borrower shall prepare an action plan for the establishment of
the private plant pools, and shall ensure that these are autonomous
entities and enable them to charge commercial rates for equipment
hire.
7.    The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1991, formulate a program for
its vehicle weight control and road safety programs, including a
Page  14
definition of responsibilities for implementation and promptly
thereafter commence implementation of such programs.
8.    (a)   The Borrower shall ensure that environmental
considerations are included in terms of reference for studies and
conditions for contract for procurement of works and goods, in
particular those aspects that may have an adverse environmental
impact.
      (b)   Rural roads to be improved under the Project shall be
selected through applying evaluation criteria, satisfactory to the
Association.
9.    The Borrower, building on the experience gained on past rural
road maintenance programs, shall increase the opportunities for
employment of women in such programs, and facilitate the improvement
in their work conditions.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
Page  15
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall bemade only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  16
