                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002201



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-40030 IDA-40031)



                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR102.70 MILLION
                      (US$155.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                    THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                     FOR A

                  LOCAL GOVERNMENT SUPPORT PROJECT

                                  April 30, 2013




Urban Development and Services Practice 1 (AFTU1)
Country Department AFCE1
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2013)

                    Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (TSh)
                            TSh 1.00 = US$0.0006
                            US$ 1.00 = TSh 1,620

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 – June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBG      Capacity Development Grant
CDG      Capital Development Grant/LGCDG
CIUP     Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program
D by D   Decentralization by Devolution
DLA      Dar es Salaam Local Authorities
DMDP     Dar es Salaam Metropolitan Development Project
GoT      Government of Tanzania
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IE       Impact Evaluation
LGA      Local Government Authority
LGCDG    Local Government Capital Development Grant
LGRP     Local Government Reform Program
LGSP     Local Government Support Project
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MTR      Mid-term Review
NGO      Non-governmental Organization
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PDO      Project Development Indicator
PforR    Program for results
PM-RALG  President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government
PMO-RALG Prime Minister’s Office of Regional Administration and Local
PST      Project Support Team
REP      Revenue Enhancement Program
TRA      Tanzania Revenue Authority
TSCP     Tanzania Strategic Cities Project

                           Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                         Country Director: Philppe Dongier
                          Sector Director: Jamal Saghir
                          Sector Manager: R. Mukami Kariuki
                     Project Team Leader: Barjor Mehta
                        ICR Team Leader: Andre A. Bald


                                        i
                                             TANZANIA
                                   Local Government Support Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 34
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
  Annex 10. Summary Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program Impact
             Evaluation ………………………………………………………………...47




                                                             ii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Local Government
Country:                Tanzania                 Project Name:
                                                                           Support Project
Project ID:             P070736                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40030,IDA-40031
ICR Date:               04/30/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           TANZANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 35.60M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 97.38M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 102.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Prime Minister's Office Regional Administration and Local Government
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/30/2002     Effectiveness:           04/13/2005          04/13/2005
                                                                                  06/15/2006
Appraisal:            09/08/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  06/19/2009
Approval:             11/30/2004     Mid-term Review:                             01/21/2008
                                     Closing:                 06/30/2008          06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 10                  10
Roads and highways                                                     5                    5
Sub-national government administration                                85                  85


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      23                  23
Municipal finance                                                     22                  22
Municipal governance and institution building                         22                  22
Rural services and infrastructure                                     11                  11
Urban services and housing for the poor                               22                  22

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Philippe Dongier                     Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Rosemary Mukami Kariuki              Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:       Barjor E. Mehta                      Matthew D. Glasser
ICR Team Leader:           Andre A. Bald
ICR Primary Author:        Andre A. Bald

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the LGSP are:
  (i) to strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve accountability in the use of local
government resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfers systems;


                                                iv
 (ii) to increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es
Salaam and to improve revenue performance for sustainable operations and maintenance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives of the Project are to (a) strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve
accountability in the use of local government resources, and improve management of
intergovernmental transfers and demand-driven urban investments; and (b) increase
access to infrastructure and services in the unplanned areas of Dar es Salaam and improve
revenue performance for sustainable operations and maintenance.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target   Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target        Completion or
                                              documents)       Values         Target Years
                Percentage of Participating Local Government Authorities meeting minimum
Indicator 1 :
                access conditions for accessing Local Government Capital Development Grants
Value
quantitative or 54%                         80%                               97%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2004                    06/30/2008                        06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of Participating Local Government Authorities with 'clean' (i.e.
Indicator 2 :
                unqualified) audit certificates
Value
quantitative or 20%                         80%                               54%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2004                    06/30/2008                        06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of Transfers to Participating Local Government Authorities that are
Indicator 3 :
                made within the first 30 days of each quarter
Value
quantitative or 0%                          100%                              44%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/2004                    06/30/2008                        06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Access to Services is improved: (a) the increase in the proportion of streets, (b)
Indicator 4 : the reduction in households experiencing flooding; (c) percentage increase of
                enterprises.
Value           25% of Phase 1 and
                                            80%, 10%, 30%                     97% Streets
quantitative or 7% of Phase 2 streets

                                                 v
Qualitative)    22% of Phase 1 and
                20% of Phase 2
                households
                1,838 in Phase 1 and
                1,429 in Phase 2
                enterprises
Date achieved 11/30/2004                  06/30/2008                          06/29/2012
Comments        Flooding & Enterprises - Figures not collected at end of the project. Alternative
(incl. %        measures, discussed in section 3.1 of the ICR from the Impact Evaluation are
achievement) highlighted.
                Dar es Salaam Local Authorities (DLA) revenue performance; (a) % increase in
Indicator 5 : DLA won-source revenue by FY2011/12; (b) % unrestricted transfers and DLA
                revenues.
                                                                              151% Own Source
                                                                              revenue = 41.0
Value           Own source revenues =
                                                                              billion in July 2011
quantitative or Tshs 16.3 bn.             50% and 8%
                                                                              to May 2012, per
Qualitative)    6.65%
                                                                              June 19, 2011.
                                                                              11.9 %
Date achieved 11/30/2004                  06/30/2008                          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                           Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Percentage of Participating LGAs receiving 100 percent of the LGCDG
Value           10 of 121 (8%) LGAs
                                         20% (of 132
(quantitative   qualified for a bonus in                                  20%
                                         LGAs)
or Qualitative) 2006/07
Date achieved 11/30/2004                 06/30/2008                       06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                           IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     04/26/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/03/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     8.87
  3     04/24/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   15.34
  4     12/12/2006           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            29.23

                                                vi
 5     05/02/2007         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory           49.66
 6     10/26/2007         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory           51.73
 7     04/15/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           56.64
 8     12/15/2008     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory           72.46
 9     06/23/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  84.52
 10    11/25/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  86.75
 11    03/29/2010         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  97.73
 12    12/10/2010         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 131.58
 13    06/28/2011         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 142.92
 14    12/31/2011         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 144.58
 15    07/11/2012         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 151.18

H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings at      Amount
                      Board  Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                                Reason for Restructuring &
                    Approved                 Restructuring
     Date(s)                                                      Key Changes Made
                  PDO Change DO         IP       in USD
                                                 millions
    06/15/2006          N       S        S          23.55    Additional Financing
                                                             Amendment to the DCA and the
    06/19/2009          Y      MS      MS           84.52
                                                             AF Agreement
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

I. Disbursement Profile




                                            vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country Context
When the Project started in 2003, Tanzania’s population was 35.9 million. It was among
the world’s poorest countries, with a per capital Gross National Income of US$290. The
country was shifting from a rural to urban economy and simultaneously making the
transition from a one-party socialist state to a multi-party democracy. After its first
national multi-party elections in 1994, the government started the process of
decentralization by devolution, transferring greater responsibilities from central to local
government.

Sector Background
Decentralization: The Government of Tanzania’s (GoT, or Government) decentralization
process 1 aimed to improve intergovernmental fiscal transfers, strengthen revenue
generation for Local Government Authorities (LGAs), and make service delivery more
efficient and equitable. The GoT’s overarching policy, Decentralization by Devolution (D
by D), was enacted in 1998 and shifted greater political, administrative, and financial
powers to LGAs. Accordingly, their responsibilities for service delivery in education,
health, agriculture, and infrastructure also increased.

The Local Government Reform Program2 (LGRP) was the GoT’s primary instrument to
implement D by D. LGRP was managed by the Prime Minister’s Office - Regional
Administration and Local Government (PMO-RALG) and supported by donors3 though a
common basket fund.

Before LGRP and the introduction of the Local Government Capital Development Grant
(supported through this project), direct development grants to LGAs were typically sectoral
or area based. These resources were often earmarked, or controlled in a top-down manner.
Further, the amounts for capital investments were small and not dependable for long-term
capital works programming. Allocation of funds was not based on performance or a
transparent/equitable formula. Overall, the intergovernmental finance system was
fragmented, and there was no robust mechanism to finance infrastructure or to strengthen
the capacity of LGAs. Improving the system was a necessary precursor for sustainable
decentralized service delivery – and this provided the impetus for the Local Government
Support Project.

Urbanization: At the time, Tanzania was also urbanizing rapidly – with the share of the
urban population increasing from 6 to 24 percent from 1967-2005. This demographic shift
increased the stress on local governments to deliver basic services. Infrastructure coverage



1
  Guided by the Local Government Reform Act 1982, second Poverty Reduction Support Program, and 1998`Policy Paper
on Local Government Reform.
2
  LGRP-I 1998-2008 and LGRP II 2009-2014
3
  Netherlands, Finland, Ireland, Belgium, Canada, Germany, and the European Union.


                                                       1
and quality was poor and declining across sectors, and there was also widespread
informality in the economy as well as in land/housing markets, with roughly 70 percent of
the population residing in informal or unplanned settlements.

Development trends in Dar es Salaam: Dar es Salaam was, and remains, the country’s
largest and most important city for commerce and government. From 2002-2012, the
population increased from 2.5 to 4.3 million – an average annual rate of 5.6%. The city
also expanded outwards, with informal settlements covering 60 percent of the land. These
demographic trends added to the significant challenges facing the Dar es Salaam Local
Authorities (DLAs). Among others, a fragmented government structure, dependence on
central government transfers, low capacity and lack of tools for revenue collection, and a
backlog of basic infrastructure and services.

Rationale for Bank Assistance and Contribution to Higher Level Objectives
Against this background, the Local Government Support Project (LGSP, or Project) was
developed to support both the decentralization agenda and key urbanization challenges in
Dar es salaam. It therefore included two distinct components, one focused on
strengthening the fiscal decentralization system, and one addressing urban priorities in Dar
es Salaam, namely upgrading unplanned settlements and improving revenue enhancement.

LGSP was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy 2001-2003; which highlighted
the priority areas of ‘Increasing Empowerment and Accountability’ and ‘Public Sector
Reform and Institution Building.’ Decentralization was also supported by the Bank’s
Economic Sector Work on Decentralization 2001, and the Government’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper as a foundation for service delivery to the poor and to improve local
governance. LGRP was the government’s core public sector reform program to implement
decentralization and had broad stakeholder and donor support. The Bank’s involvement
would (i.) draw on its competencies in decentralization and urban management,
(ii.) provide resources for local-level capital investments, and (iii.) help enhance donor
support. For the urban management and upgrading components in Dar es Salaam – the
Bank had significant experience in this field globally, and in Tanzania through the First and
Second Urban Projects. The Bank was well positioned to address the community
infrastructure needs and to help develop an upgrading project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
The Project Development Objective (PDO) were:

       (i.) to strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve accountability in the use of local
       government resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfer
       systems; and
       (ii.) to increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es
       Salaam and to improve revenue performance for sustainable operations and
       maintenance.

The original Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are shown in Table 1.




                                             2
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO and Key Performance Indicators were revised in response to the additional
financing and project restructuring (highlighted in Section 1.7). The project was extended
for a total of 4 years.

The first part of the PDO was revised to: “(i.) strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve
accountability in the use of local government resources, and improve management of
intergovernmental transfers and demand-driven urban investments.? The addition was to
accommodate new project activities (namely financing preparation of the Tanzania
Strategic Cities Program) approved through restructuring.

The Key Performance Indicators were revised at restructuring to reflect: (i.) changes during
implementation (expansion of the program coverage from 41 to 132 LGAs, and dropping
sanitation interventions in CIUP); and (ii.) updated M&E practices (refer to section 2.3),
such as the use of intermediate outcome indicators and targets.

Table 1. Key Performance Indicators: Original and Revised
                  Original                                                        Revised
 1.   Number of 41 targeted Local Government              80 percent of Participating Local Government
      Authorities receiving Local Government Capital      Authorities meet minimum access conditions for
      Development Grants (LGCDGs) increased from          accessing Local Government Capital Development
      0 to 30 by 2007/08 (22 already qualified)           Grants by FY2009/10.
 2.   Number of participating Local Government            80 percent of Participating Local Government
      Authorities with ‘clean’ audit performance          Authorities with ‘clean’ (i.e. unqualified) audit
      records.                                            certificates by FY 2009/10.
 3.   Proportion of resources transferred to Local        Transfers to Participating Local Government
      Government Authorities which are made within        Authorities are made within the first thirty days of each
      the first 30 days of each quarter increased to      quarter by FY2009/10.
      100% by 2007/08
 4.   Access to services in 16 beneficiary sub-wards      Access to services provided under Part B.1 of the
      (approximately 10% of the Dar es Salaam             Project is improved as measured by:
      population) improved, as measured by:                  (a.) the increase in the proportion of streets in the
         (a.) Reduction in travel time from home to          surveyed area reachable by paved access roads.
         work, school/market/closest motor-able road         (b.) the reduction in the proportion of surveyed
         (b.) Reduction in incidence of flooding of          households experiencing flooding of premises.
         household premises                                  (c.) the percentage increase in the number of
         (c.) Increase in frequency of waste collection      enterprises in the surveyed area.
         (d.) Reduction in proportion of plots with no
         sanitation facilities
 5.   Dar es Salaam Local Authorities own source          Dar es Salaam Local Authority revenue performance
      revenues increased by 50% by 2007-08 and            improved as measured by:
      adequate funds are disbursed for O&M.                 (a.) 50 percent increase in Dar es Salaam Local
                                                            Authority (DLA) own-source revenues by
                                                            FY2011/12;and
                                                            (b.) Eight percent of unrestricted transfers and DLA
                                                            own-source revenues allocated for purposes of
                                                            operations and maintenance by FY2011/12.




                                                      3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project was intended to benefit three groups:
 Local consumers, through increased investments in infrastructure and improved
   services by LGAs. The investments In Component 2 for the Community Infrastructure
   Upgrading Program targeted an estimated 330,000 people in low-income households,
   estimated to cover 20 percent of unplanned areas in Dar es Salaam.
 Local Government Administrations, through improved capacity, resources, and systems
   for service provision. The project originally supported 41 LGAs, but after additional
   financing and restructuring, it supported all 132 LGAs in the country.
 PMO-RALG - which is responsible for administration of LGAs, through improved
   policy guidance, enhanced monitoring systems, and increased capacity to manage a
   decentralized capital grant system.

1.5 Original Components
Component l: Support for Local Government Capital Development Grant System (USD35
million) This component supported the overall Local Government Capital Development
Grant (LGCDG) system, which was also funded by GOT and bilateral development
partners. The LGCDG system included (i.) a Capital Development Grant (CDG), and (ii.) a
Capacity Building Grant (CBG). The LGCDG transfers were non-sectoral, and distributed
on a formula basis to LGAs, who could invest in accordance with local needs as
determined through a participatory planning and budgetary processes. The CBG would
provide resources to help LGAs to build the capacity to access and manage the CDG.

Component 2: Dar es Salaam Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening (USD18.8 million)
This component had two sub-components: (a) the Community Infrastructure Upgrading
Program, a community-driven infrastructure upgrading program that targeted unplanned
areas in Dar es Salaam; and (b) the Local Revenue Enhancement/O&M Enhancement
Program, which sought to improve revenue collection systems to support O&M
expenditures.

Component 3: Support to PO-RALG (USD7.9 million)
This component supported the President’s Office – Regional Administration and Local
Government (PO-RALG) in the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and audit of the
Project, and the fiscal transfer program supported by Component 1, while building the
capacity of PMORALG to execute these functions as part of routine activities.

1.6 Revised Components
As a result of the Board approved restructuring (June 19, 2009), the description of
Component 3 was revised to: ‘Strengthening the operation capacity of PMO-RALG 4 to
support the carrying out of the coordination, implementation and monitoring and evaluation



4
  An additional minor change to the project description due to the restructuring was to reflect (i.) the administrative
change in name of the ‘President’s Office’ to the ‘Prime Minister’s Office’ – Regional Administration and Local
Government, and (ii.) inclusion of Project activities to support preparation of additional LGA investments through TSCP.




                                                           4
of the Project including inter alia: (a) annual performance assessments of the Participating
LGAs; (b) the administration and monitoring of CDGs and CBGs; (c) operations and
maintenance budgeting for purposes of local revenue generation; (d) monitoring of service
delivery and maintenance by Participating LGAs; (e) local government capacity building
and management program; (f) project monitoring and evaluation, and progress reporting;
(g) information dissemination; and preparation of additional investments in LGAs.’

1.7 Other significant changes
The Project received an additional credit early during implementation, and it was
restructured, and the closing date extended twice for a total extension of 4 years. The
specific changes were:

   An additional Credit of US$98.0 million, Approved by the Board on June 15, 2006.
    This was used to scale-up support and activities to the Government’s Local
    Government Capital Development Grant (LGCDG); extend support to the LGCDG
    system from FY 2006/07 through FY 2009/10; and allow LGSP funding to be used
    nationally to cover all 132 LGAs. The closing date was extended by three years to June
    30, 2011. The additional credit restored the Bank’s total financing to the amount
    planned during preparation (between US $90 to $130 million), but scaled-back at
    appraisal due to IDA-13 funding limitations.

   Restructuring, Approved by the Board on June 19, 2009. This enabled the reallocation
    of cost savings and unallocated funds from Component 1 to finance cost increases of
    US$4.1 million in Phase I of the Community Infrastructure Upgrading Project (CIUP);
    scaling up (Phase II) of CIUP through an additional US$20.8 million; an allocation of
    US$7.5 million for preparation of the Tanzania Strategic Cities Project (TSCP);
    revision of the results framework; dropping the household sanitation activities; and a
    one year extension of the closing date to June 30, 2012. A waiver of OP 13.20 was
    approved by the Bank’s management (May 5, 2009) to allow an additional one-year
    extension beyond the three-year limit for Additional Financing.

Table 2. IDA Financing (US$ Millions)
 Component                                       Approval          Additional Financing   Restructuring
                                                Nov 30, 2004         June 15, 2006        June 19, 2009
 Component 1. Support for Local                           35.0                    125.9             93.1
 Government Capital Development Grant
 System.
 Component 2. Dar es Salaam upgrading                     18.8                     15.9             39.4
 and Institutional Strengthening
 Component 3. Support to PMO-RALG                          6.3                      8.2           *20.1
 Total                                                    52.0                    150.0           152.7
 *includes unallocated amounts after the second restructuring ($4.6 million)




                                                     5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Analytical
There was a strong rationale and analytical foundation for the Bank’s interventions with
respect to decentralization, urban management, and upgrading. All Project components
carried out technical research and prepared quality feasibility studies as the basis for the
concept design and appraisal.5 The preparation missions were composed of appropriate
cross-sector Task-Teams, and findings were well documented and discussed. The Project
was prepared in close consultation with GoT counterparts, donors, communities, and NGOs.

The Project Appraisal Documents (PAD) highlighted the lessons learned from the Bank’s
experience in decentralization and urban management. 6 Key lessons influencing the design
of Component 1 included the need for: (i) a long-term ‘learning by doing’ approach to
introduce changes to local governments systems; (ii) LGA implementation of local
investments; and (iii) the use of performance and demand-based approaches.

The design of Component 2 reflected lessons from similar upgrading operations, including
the use of: (i) systematic selection criteria for communities, (ii) community involvement in
planning and monitoring , (iii) community contributions as demonstration of demand,
(iv) the use of per hectare cost norms to distribute benefits, (v) flexible standards to
minimize resettlement impacts, and (vi) upfront commitments from LGAs for operations
and maintenance.

Assessment of the Project Design
The Project design was relatively ambitious – though the justifications for, and the
consideration of alternative approaches were articulated in the PAD. Three diverse
activities (supporting fiscal transfer mechanisms, urban upgrading, and revenue
enhancement activities) were implemented at the national, local, and community levels.
There was intensive consultation and engagement with the donor community and among
Government agencies at all levels.

There were no direct linkages between Components 1 and 2 – and this is reflected by the
Project’s ‘two PDOs.’ Both components could have been a stand-alone project, and the
PAD indicates it would be a ‘simpler and more elegant approach’ to omit Compo nent 2 on
upgrading. The upgrading component was retained because it offered opportunities to
(i.) directly target the urban poor, and (ii.) start a pilot operation and engagement with local
authorities in Dar es Salaam - one of the world’s fastest urbanizing cities.



5
    Components 1 and 3 were prepared by Price Waterhouse Coopers (financed by the LGRP Common Basket Fund);
Component 2a, including designs for Phase I and safeguards instruments by DHV/UCLAS (financed through a Japanese
PHRD Grant); and Component 2b by consultant, Robert Faber.
6
   Lessons from the Bank’s global experience were drawn from (i.) the African Urban Sector Strategy (Nov 2001); The
Operation Evaluation Department Evaluation Summaries; and (iii.) the report, ‘Fiscal Decentralization and Sub -national
finance in Africa (DANIDA and the World Bank, 2000). Regional operational experience was drawn from (i.) the
Zimbabwe Local Government Capital Development Project; the Uganda Local Government Development Project, the
Senegal Urban Development and the Decentralization project.


                                                          6
As noted above the Project was initially designed to be larger (up to US$ 150 million), but
was reduced at appraisal due to IDA-13 funding constraints. The revised appraisal budget
was US52.0 million, requiring the elimination of the final year of support to the LGCDG
system (Component 1) and deferral of Phase II of Component 2. However, by Project
completion, all of the original/intended activities were later carried-out - the project was
restructured and additional financing provided.

Each component required co-financing. For Component 1, LGAs had to provide 5% of the
LGCDG from own source revenues as a minimum condition to access the grant. For
Component 2, communities had to contribute 5% of capital costs and DLAs an additional
5% as a condition to start the works. The rationale for co-financing was to demonstrate
demand and commitment. From the original project cost (USD60.8 million), IDA financed
86%, GoT 10%, and DLAs/communities 4%. At project close, the financing totaled
USD158.8, shared 94% IDA, 3% GoT, and 3% DLAs/communities.

Component 1 was designed to work through the GoT’s existing LGRP. Prior to the Project,
many donors (pre-2004) had separate ad hoc programs to support LGAs. However, during
preparation, the Bank worked closely with GoT and Development Partners to create a more
systematic approach to support LGAs. As a result of this project, most donors committed
their financing to work through the LGCDG and CBG established in Component 1. This
was an important achievement of the Project.

Assessment of Risks
The PAD provided a realistic assessment of the broad risks and mitigation measures. Some
of the risks considered ‘substantial’ and ‘high’ included:
     The political and policy environment for local revenues will deteriorate
     Failure of GoT to put in place adequate legal, policy, fiscal framework for LGAs
     LGA capacity may not be sufficient to implement all of the control procedures
     Counterpart funds may not be sufficient given declining levels of local revenues

The Overall Risk rating was ‘Substantial.’ Areas that became problematic during
implementation, but were assessed as ‘moderate’ included:
    Operations and maintenance measures by councils are inadequate
    LGAs receive transfers late due to delays in releasing funds from MoF
    Political interference in project operation/in revenue enhancement efforts

The assessment of risks did not flag the complexity of the overall project design – which
had three distinct initiatives, would require diverse skill sets, and would be implemented
through several levels of government. Some activities were pioneering in Tanzania. Others,
such as improving own-source revenue under Component 2b were highlighted as risky at
appraisal, but ultimately considered a high-risk high-reward endeavors, necessary for
LGAs to be able to maintain infrastructure.

The PAD identified in the lessons learned that the success of each key component required
a long-term engagement. Given this, the original project implementation period of 3.5


                                             7
years – which reduced when the budget was halved (effective 01/01/2005 to 06/0/2008) -
was increased to 7.5 years to accommodate the additional financing added in 2006.

2.2 Implementation
Components 1 and 3 supporting the Local Government Capital Development Grant

The Project (through Components 1 and 3) transformed the existing fragmented
intergovernmental transfer system and created the foundation for sustainable decentralized
service delivery. It introduced and created a formula-based, transparent, and predictable
fiscal flow mechanism to disburse funds to LGAs on the basis of institutional performance.

Fiscal transfers to LGAs were disbursed through two windows: the LGCDG and CBG.
The LGCDG provided funding for capital expenditures, which were selected by recipient
LGAs using local planning and budgeting systems, while the CBG provided funding to
support capacity building at the local level to enable efficient and effective use of the
LGCDG.7

Prior to the introduction of the LGCDG, direct development grants to LGAs were small
and not performance based. LGAs received additional development resources from sectoral
and area-based development programs, contained within the respective line ministry’s
budget, and the use of these resources was often earmarked or controlled in a top-down
manner. With the support of this project, the LGCDG became formula-based. It introduced
minimum qualification standards to build fiscal decentralization and ensure accountability
in the use of public funds. Over time, the LGCDG evolved into the Local Government
Development Grant (LGDG) Program, which mainstreamed performance based fiscal
transfers.

Beyond expectation, the Project galvanized the support of development partners who
channeled their programs through the LGCDG system. As a result, it became possible for
the program to be scaled-up from 41 LGAs (at appraisal) to cover all 132 LGAs in
Tanzania, thus leveraging an additional US 181.5 million (estimated) in financing from
development partners.

The LGDG system and the larger local government reform process achieved a number of
significant improvements in LGA performance. For instance, the requirement to include
communities in LGA budgeting and planning improved participatory planning and
budgeting, as well as accountability at the LGA level.8 The increased volume of funding


7
  Today the Council Development Grant and the Capacity Building Grant are collectively known as the “LGDG core?.
New sector windows (LGDG non-core) have been added as the government has rationalized and decentralized funding for
development needs, in particular sectors where LGAs have core responsibilities. The LGDG system consists of the
following s windows: (i.) LGDG Core, as described above; (ii.) LGDG Non-Core, added between 2007 and 2009,
(iii.) Agriculture Sector Development Grant (ASDG) established in 2009 for agricultural extension and development;
(iv.) Water Sector Development Grant (WSDG) established in 2007 for water and sanitation infrastructure and services;
(v.) Health Sector Development Grant (HSDG) established in 2009 for primary healthcare services.

8
    Tidemand, Msami, Impact of Local Government Reforms in Tanzania, 2010



                                                         8
channeled to LGAs also led to an increased amount of investment in LGA infrastructure
and services9. The performance assessment element of the LGDG system also improved
LGA systems by creating the incentives meet pre-defined targets.10 These improvements
are reflected in public opinion. When asked in an independently conducted citizen survey
(2003) if local government reforms are improving service delivery, 60.5% responded
“yes?. This rate went up to 70.24% when the survey was repeated in 2009.

There were some operational challenges during implementation, notably:
 M&E: The M&E framework was not well executed. There were delays populating the
   baseline and interim results. The project underwent substantial changes at restructuring,
   although the revised targets seem to have been too ambitious, given the increased scale
   of the program (from 41 to 132 LGAs).
 Assessment of impacts/outcomes: Specific reporting on the outputs and outcomes of
   the LGCDG were late and with inconsistent quality.
 Government Contribution to the LGCDG system: The MTR found USD18 million in
   GoT’s own funds that were reportedly budgeted for the LGCDG system (and which
   were supposed to be transferred to qualifying LGAs) were transferred to non-qualifying
   councils to construct office buildings and other purposes. GoT ended the practice and
   recommitted to provide its own resources to LGAs though the LGCDG system.
 Timeliness of GoT Transfers to LGAs through LGCDG: GoT was often late
   transferring LGCDGs and CBGs to local government, although performance improved
   over the course of the project. Without reliable transfers – it was difficult for LGAs to
   plan their capital works program. The Bank consistently raised the issue. However,
   reasons for the delays varied - e.g. fiscal constraints (occasioned by the financial crisis)
   in 2010/11 were a contributing factor during that period.

Component 2: Dar es Salaam Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening

Component 2a.CIUP successfully piloted upgrading in the three municipalities in Dar es
Salaam. While CIUP faced implementation challenges – these were consistent with the
risks anticipated at appraisal. For example, Phase I works were delayed, primarily due to
collection of the requisite counterpart contribution from LGAs and communities. In
addition, the MTR also references procurement delays, poor contract management, disputes
on compensation rates, and the need to strengthen supervision arrangements. Some issues
include:

    Contract Management: Contract management of CIUP was problematic. Some
     ‘completed’ contracts required additional follow-up; there was a pattern of long
     contract extensions; and in some instances, contracts expired while works was on-
     going. These practices contributed to implementation delays and drove up costs.
    Counterpart Funds: Counterpart contributions were consistently late, or were not fully
     paid. Communities were obligated to pay their full portion of counterpart funds, and


9
 MDF Consulting, Local Government Development Grant System Mid Term Review, 2011
10
  Liviga, Roell, Mhina, Effectiveness of “Decentralization by Devolution?: Financial Resources versus Absorption
Capacity, 2010


                                                          9
    did, but the time taken to collect community counterpart funds slowed implementation.
    However, the DLAs did not pay their full contribution. At project closing, it was noted
    that the DLA’s had used IDA funds to pay their counterpart contributions. These funds
    (USD 1.711 million) were deemed ineligible expenditures and had to be refunded.
   CIUP Sustainability: The approach agreed by PMO-RALG and the Bank was that
    CIUP O&M should be addressed through LGA systems, instead of specific
    arrangements for CIUP communities. However, while communities paid their
    counterpart contribution before works started, these funds were not reserved for long-
    term O&M, and no alternative funding was budgeted.

Component 2b. Revenue Enhancement and Operations and Maintenance
The MTR flagged the difficulties and delays in implementing the Revenue Enhancement
Program (REP), although one of the key performance indicators (local revenues have
increased by 50%) had been met. A key factor affecting implementation was the reported
lack of institutional or political will to tackle revenue enhancement. A further complication
arose from the GoT’s decision, during the course of project implementation, for the
Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) to ‘temporarily’ take over tax collection functions on
behalf of DLAs. This resulted in putting the valuation work on-hold (delaying
implementation by roughly a year) until there was clarity on institutional mechanisms.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

There were shortcomings in the design and execution of the M&E framework that resulted
in unrealistic targets and measures that did not fully capture the overall positive
achievements and transformative aspects of the Project.

The original monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework was revised during
restructuring; to introduce intermediate outcome indicators; and reflect changes arising
from the additional financing and restructuring. The project’s success (primarily when it
was scaled-up nationally from 41 to 132 LGAs, and leveraged the resources from other
donors) made M&E design more challenging with respect to (i.) developing realistic targets
appropriate given the mix of capacities and the range of the expanded LGAs and (ii.) the
administration of the grants.

A baseline was not completed at appraisal, and successive supervision missions flagged
delays in populating the framework. However, it was only after the MTR and restructuring,
that the overall M&E performance improved for Components 1 and 3. The revised key
performance indicators for Component 2 relied on the post-project Impact Evaluation.
However, as the IE could not capture all of the key indicators using household surveys, the
M&E for this Component fell short of expectations. Overall, M&E data was not well
utilized to inform decision making.

The Project used third party consultants to carry-out the analysis for the Mid-term Reviews.
These reports were thorough, high quality, and provided a detailed stocktaking and
recommendations for the client and Bank to make evidence based decisions. The final
reports for Components 1 and 3 were well prepared with detailed analysis (the summary is



                                             10
in Annex 7.) A final report on Component 2 was not prepared – instead the Impact
Evaluation was used to assess the results of the CIUP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards: The Project was appraised as category B, and triggered the following policies
(i.) Environmental Assessment (OP4.01); and (ii.) Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12). The
Project’s key safeguards instruments supporting CIUP included an Environmental and
Social Management Framework, Resettlement Policy framework, Environmental
Management Action Plan, and Resettlement Action Plan. The instruments were updated to
reflect additional project activities in Phase II of CIUP.

There were no substantial safeguards issues identified during implementation. Except for
one case of a ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ rating, safeguards were rated ‘Satisfactory’
throughout implementation. A specific environment and social safeguards mission was
carried out after the MTR (since this was not included in the MTR), and numerous areas for
improvement were identified. Subsequent Aide Memoires and ISRs do not report as
rigorously on safeguards. Project documentation should have included more details on
implementation and supervision issues to help justify the consistently high ISR ratings.

Procurement: Procurement of goods, works, and consulting services was generally
satisfactory. There were early delays with some of the CIUP contracts (mainly due to
processing and approval for additional works, addendums, and extension of completion
periods) which affected implementation. These issues were identified and followed-up
appropriately. Procurement plans were regularly updated. Independent Procurement
Review and Value for Money Audits were carried out (2007 and 2009) – findings,
recommendations for improvement, and required actions were discussed between the Bank
and client. However, no significant issues were identified in the reviews.

Financial Management: There were several financial management issues identified
throughout implementation. Firstly, the Supervision team identified (in December 2006
Aide Memoire) that the government was in breach of a legal covenant on its obligations to
provide counterpart funding – an issue that was identified earlier but not fully resolved.
Secondly, the MTR (Feb 2008) flagged USD1.71 million documented in the FMR that was
not recorded in the Bank system. This triggered a significant effort by the Bank to work
with PMO-RALG and Project Support Team Dar es Salaam (PST-DAR) to reconcile
disbursement records. Thirdly, at the end of the project the Bank became aware that the
DLA paid contracts using 100% IDA, with the understanding that GoT would cover the
counterpart contribution. However, this did not happen, and ultimately, after the Project
closed, the Bank requested the Ministry of Finance to refund USD1.71 million in ineligible
expenditures i.e. the use of IDA funds for counterpart co-financing.        Despite these
shortcomings, fiduciary ratings however were generally ‘Satisfactory.’ It may have been
prudent to downgrade the ratings to elevate specific problematic FM issues – which were
overshadowed by the overall positive message.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Component 1, Support for Local Government Capital Development Grant: At project
completion, the performance based fiscal transfer had become a permanent feature of


                                           11
Tanzania’s fiscal architecture, with an increasingly greater share contributed from GoT’s
own sources. For instance, while the Government’s share of the LGDG core disbursement
in FY2005/06 was 7% (US$ 1.5 million out of US$ 22.4 million disbursed), this has
increased progressively to 22% in FY2010/11 (US$ 15 million out of US$ 68.4 million
disbursed) and to 40% in FY2011/12. In the context of GoT’s tight overall budgetary
position, this trend demonstrates the success of LGSP in helping GoT create and sustain a
transparent fiscal transfer mechanism, the LGDG.

The Government has built on the success of the Project, requesting World Bank support for
the design of a specific “urban? performance grant window within the LGDG system using
the Program for Results (PforR) instrument. The Bank board approved a new operation,
known as the Urban Local Government Strengthening Program (ULGSP), in October 2012.
This is also the Bank’s first PforR operation in Africa. Leveraging the success achieved by
LGSP, ULGSP will carry forward and reinforce the decentralization, institutional
development, and local government capacity building agenda.

Component 2a: CIUP: There are no specific requirements or mechanisms for post-
completion transition arrangements for the upgrading works, outside the DLA’s normal
responsibilities for O&M. The Project did not put into place specific O&M arrangements
for CIUP. However, in line with plans to address the backlog of unplanned settlements in
Dar es Salaam, a follow-up project, currently under preparation (Dar es Salaam
Metropolitan Development Project) will continue the upgrading work, reinforcing the
CIUP model with the city and drawing from the lessons of the CIUP Impact Evaluation.
Despite the popularity and demand for CIUP – the expectations in the PAD that it would be
scaled-up by the city, with the city’s own financing, did not materialize.

Component 2b: Revenue Enhancement: The Project facilitated the identification and
valuation of all taxable properties across the three DLAs. The tax base was greatly
expanded and the tools are in place for the DLA to move forward by increasing the tax
rates and improving billing and collection. Efforts to consolidate and expand the city’s
revenue base will also be supported under the follow-up project, currently under
preparation (Dar es Salaam Metropolitan Development Project).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High

The overall relevance of the objectives remains High. The Project’s design, objectives, and
implementation mechanisms are consistent with Tanzania’s development priorities. The
decision to support the then-nascent GoT’s decentralization effort by focusing on
performance-based grant mechanism proved correct, as demonstrated by the fact that the
mechanism was scaled up nationally to cover all LGAs, and became the instrument of
choice for transferring funds for the agriculture, water, health and most recently urban




                                            12
sectors. The performance-based grant system (whose creation was supported mainly by
LGSP) is now the main transfer mechanism for capital and sector specific grants.

The relevance of LGSP’s focus on supporting decentralization is further demonstrated by
the fact that decentralization is now a permanent feature of Tanzanian public policy and is
explicitly referred to in GoT’s five-year (2010/11–2014/15) national growth and poverty
reduction strategy, MKUKUTA II. MKUKUTA II is a medium-term plan that aims to
achieve the goals of Tanzania’s Development Vision 2025 (TDV 2025) and the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). TDV 2025 aspires to make Tanzania a middle
income country characterized by high quality livelihoods; peace, stability, and unity; good
governance; a well-educated and learning society; and a strong and competitive economy
by 2025. One of the core pillars of MKUKUTA II, is the national decentralization reform,
(dbyD) which is the Government’s overarching decentralization policy. The financing for
these responsibilities comes from flows provided by the fiscal decentralization component,
which was supported by the LGSP.

The relevance of the urban upgrading component, which established a successful pilot that
introduced the key principals of upgrading to three municipalities and improved access to
infrastructure and services in target areas, is also high. CIUP provided the operational and
knowledge foundation for addressing the challenges of a city that is rapidly urbanizing
without adequate planning and infrastructure and service provision.              The three
municipalities and PMO-RALG have therefore requested a scale-up upgrading operation
through the Dar es Salaam Metropolitan Development Project (now under preparation).

The original project design and objectives are consistent with two of the four strategic
goals of the CAS for FY2012-15: (i.) to build infrastructure and deliver services and (ii.) to
promote accountability and governance. The Project is consistent with the Government’s
Letter of Sector Development Policy on Urban Development (January 2010) which stresses
the need for enhanced support to urban areas and for the long-term financing for urban
infrastructure. All components established a foundation (institutional development,
technical, and strategic) upon which the Bank’s current urban portfolio draws.11

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The PDO contains distinct objectives associated with the two major components. Out of the
five PDO level indicators, the project fully achieved two and partially achieved three.

The revised Project Development Objectives (PDO) were:

         (i.) to strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve accountability in the use of local
         government resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfers and
         demand-driven urban investments, and


11
 The Tanzania Strategic Cities Project, Urban Local Government Strengthening Program, and the Dar es Salaam
Metropolitan Development Project (under preparation)


                                                       13
         (ii.) to increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es
         Salaam and to improve revenue performance for sustainable operations and
         maintenance.

The M&E framework (reference section 2.3) had some weakness, and overall did not fully
capture the satisfactory results on the ground – thus additional complimentary measures are
presented in Table 3 to reflect the results towards the PDO. Further, the indicators for
Component 2 utilize the robust analysis from the Impact Evaluation for the corresponding
measures of connectivity, flooding, and enterprise development. There are minor
variations with the unit of measure (for 2 of the 3 indicators) in the framework that
preclude assessing the Impact Evaluation derived indicator against the original targets.
However, these indicators are judged to be accurate for evaluation of improved access to
services – and the M&E framework indicates the final results were to be derived from the
Impact Evaluation.

Component 1, Support for Local Government Capital Development Grant:
This component did achieve its broad objectives to strengthen fiscal decentralization,
improve accountability in the use of local government resources, and improve management
of the intergovernmental transfer system. LGSP transformed the pre-existing ad-hoc,
fragmented, and unpredictable intergovernmental finance system into a more transparent,
results based, and equitable system. LGCGD became the primary intergovernmental
transfer system to LGAs, and was the reason the Development Partners consolidated their
support to LGAs instead of maintaining their earlier area-based programs.

Since the start of the project in 2004, roughly US$350 million in grants 12 have been
transferred to local government. These funds were used by LGAs for school construction,
offices, health facilities, and agriculture. Value for money audits found 80 percent of
investments were rated as ‘good’ or ‘best.’ Moreover, there is evidence (through citizen
perception studies) of improved performance of LGAs over the life of the project. Key
improvements as a result of the project are: (i.) the inclusion of communities in the
budgeting and planning process, (ii.) accountability at the LGA level, and (iii.) increased
investments in infrastructure and services due to the increased volume of funding for LGAs.

The capacities and performance of LGAs has improved over the project period. Almost all
LGAs now meet the minimum conditions for entrance in the LGCDG program. These
conditions encompass financial management, planning and budgeting, LGA council’s
functional processes, audit, and reporting and accountability. This significant increase in
the capacity of local government is attributable to the LGSP’s capacity building efforts and
built-in performance incentives for the annual assessments.

Component 2a: CIUP
CIUP used a participatory approach to plan and implement community-level infrastructure
targeting 20 percent of the unplanned settlements in Dar es Salaam. The outputs for CIUP


12
 IDA financed about 25% of the total grants under the LGDG system, GoT about 17%, and the remaining 58% from the
Development Partners Common Basket Fund.


                                                      14
included 40km of two-way roads, 58km of one-way roads, 26km of footpaths, 548 culverts,
8.6 km of trunk drains, 3,153 pedestrian crossings, 83 solid waste containers, and 2,780
streetlights – impacting roughly 300,000 people in priority unplanned settlements.

An Impact Evaluation13 (IE) was carried out on CIUP (refer to Annex 10 for the full report).
Some of the findings include:
 CIUP improved access to services for the average household. The time to reach a water
   supply decreased significantly to 1.5 minutes (from 3 minutes in the control), and
   toilets from 13 to 4 minutes. The proximity of streetlights on roads increased, from 2%
   in the control area to 46% in the treatment area, reducing time to reach a street light
   from 15.5 minutes to 3 minutes. Access to drainage directly outside dwellings increased
   from 14% to 37%. Households indicating that the access road to their dwelling was
   “somewhat improved? jumped from 7% to 48%.
 Children in Project communities experienced reductions in diarrhea and acute
   respiratory illness (ARI) though no impact was found for adults. For children under 5,
   diarrhea almost halves, from 22% to 12%, and ARI incidence in the past 12 months
   drops from 27% to 18%.
 School enrolment increased in Project communities, with the largest impact for girls
   older than 13. CIUP interventions are associated with an overall increase in student
   school enrolment from 85% to 89%. The cohort driving the observed impact was girls
   aged 13 – 16, with the control group having a 79% enrolment rate compared to 93% in
   the treatment group.
 Operations and maintenance remains a challenge for sustainability. The IE found 48
   percent of households reported streetlights were not working, and 29 percent flagged
   poorly functioning drainage. However, 94 percent reported garbage collection
   activities were well functioning, as were the community roads (98 percent).

Component 2b: Revenue Enhancement
The key performance indicators to improve revenue performance in Dar es Salaam were
achieved. The percentage increase in DLA own-source revenue increased by 154 percent
between 2005-2011 – well above the target level of 50 percent. The percentage of un-
restricted transfers and DLA revenues increased from 6.60 to 11.9 percent between 2005-
11, above the target of 8 percent.

Table 3. Results of PDO Indicators and Proxy Measures for CIUP
Key Performance Indicator                                        Results and Comments
PDO 1: To strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve accountability in the use of local government
resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfer systems
Moderately Satisfactory
PDO indicator 1.                       Target Exceeded – 97 percent



13
  The Impact Evaluation compared the CIUP 31 sub-wards a control group of 12 sub-wards not offered the intervention.
A baseline survey of 1,860 households in control and treatment sub-wards was conducted in 2006, upgrading began in
2007 and the follow up survey was completed in 2012. A stakeholder focus group was held on January 28, 2013 to assess
the preliminary results of the IE – with partners from the Dar City Council, the National Bureau of Statistics, NGOs, and
implementing agency technical staff.


                                                           15
80 percent of Participating         Minimum access conditions include: financial management, planning and
Local Government Authorities        budgeting, LGA council’s functional processes, audit, and reporting and
meet minimum access conditions      accountability. At the onset of the project, 53% of the participating LGAs
for accessing Local Government      qualified for the minimum conditions (2004/05). In the final year,
Capital Development Grants by       (2010/11) this went up to 97%.
FY2009/10.
                                    This was achieved despite the major increase in project’s scope from a
                                    target, prior to restructuring, of 41 LGAs, to 132 LGAs at the end.
PDO indicator 2.                    Target partially achieved - 54 percent

80 percent of Participating         Steady improvements were made towards meeting this indicator. By the
Local Government Authorities        end of the project the percentage of LGAs with clean audits had
with ‘clean’ (i.e. unqualified)     improved from 41 percent in 2003/04 to 54 percent in 2010/11(despite
audit certificates by FY 2009/10.   tripling the number of LGAs).

                                    Overall, the quality of audits for LGAs has improved. And as noted by
                                    the client’s final evaluation report, the target was not realistic given that
                                    audit reports span across four categories: Clean, qualified, adverse and
                                    disclaimed. Even in developed countries with significantly more LGA
                                    capacity, it is difficult, if not impossible to have 80% of local
                                    governments achieve the highest “score? – a clean audit. Arguably,
                                    having 0% adverse audit reports would have been the optimal indicator.
                                    As such, audits with adverse opinions dropped from 24% to 4% during
                                    the same reporting period.
PDO indicator 3.                    Target partially achieved

Transfers to Participating Local    Due to the GoT’s overall tight budget position, this indicator was only
Government Authorities are          partially met. The GoT’s track record of timely transfers to LGAs
made within the first thirty days   fluctuated greatly throughout the project period ; while in 2008/09 83%
of each quarter by FY2009/10.       of transfers were made on time, the rate was 44% in 2009/10

                                    The final evaluation report posits this was the least relevant benchmark,
                                    and as long as LGDG transfers were made regularly and predictably each
                                    quarter (rather than being bunched in Q4 when it is difficult to undertake
                                    activities) the timing of the disbursement during the first thirty days did
                                    not detract from the success of the transfer system.

                                  It is important to note, that despite delays in disbursement of funds,
                                  contrary to global practice, the performance assessments which
                                  determine the amount to be disbursed to LGAs have generally been
                                  completed on time.
PDO 2: to increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es Salaam and to
improve revenue performance for sustainable operations and maintenance
Moderately Satisfactory

PDO indicator 4.                          Targets partially achieved
Access to services provided under of      Overall, the findings from the Impact Evaluation show increased
the Project is improved as measured       access to infrastructure and services, assessed by connectivity to a
by (3 indicators below):                  paved or gravel road, lower probability of flooding, and a decrease
                                          in enterprises. Positive results were assessed for 2 out of 3
                                          indicators.

                                          The Impact Evaluation unambiguously assessed Component 2 as
                                          resulting in improved access to services for water supply, toilets,
                                          street lighting, roads, and drainage. (see discussion on Component



                                                      16
                                           2a above)
Indicator                  From IE         Unit of measure based on the Impact Evaluation
The increase in the        Increase in     Achieved: The GoT reports 97 percent against the original target of
proportion of streets in   connectivity    80 percent.
the surveyed area          to a paved      The IE finds that the probability that a household was connected to
reachable by paved         or gravel       a paved/gravel road increased from 4.7 to 27.9 percent from the
access roads.              road:           baseline to Project close.
The reduction in the       Reduction in    The probability that a household was flooded in the past 12 months
proportion of surveyed     Flooding        reduced slightly, from 24.5 to 21.6 from the baseline to the IE
households experience                      survey. Note: during the final year of the IE survey, there were
flooding on preemies                       substantial flood events (including a 1 in 100 year flood) that may
                                           have skewed the reporting.
The percentage             Target set at   This target could not be measured by the IE, as it measured sample
increase in the number     30%             households, not a total census of businesses. The counterpart did
of enterprises in the                      not monitor the original measures. For comparison, the IE data
surveyed area                              showed 60 percent of households in the CIUP communities had
                                           enterprises at the start of the project, and this dropped to 57
                                           percent at the end. A comparable drop was found in the control
                                           area. Overall, the IE did not show significant improvements in
                                           employment or business entrepreneurship – most likely because
                                           both indicators started at high baselines (90 percent).
PDO indicator 5.                           Target Exceeded
Dar es Salaam Local Authority
revenue performance improved as
measured by:
  (a.) 50 percent increase in Dar es       The percentage increase in DLA own-source revenue increased by
  Salaam Local Authority (DLA)             154% between 2005 and 2010/11 – well above the target of 50%.
  own-source revenues by
  FY2011/12;and
  (b.) Eight percent of unrestricted       The percentage of unrestricted transfers and DLA revenues
  transfers and DLA own-source             increased from 6.6% to 11.9% between 2005 and 2010/11 – above
  revenues allocated for purposes of       the target of 8%.
  operations and maintenance by
  FY2011/12.

3.3 Efficiency
Efficiency of Component 1 (Support for Local Government Capital Development Grant
System). This component was designed to help achieve the first project development
objective: “strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve accountability in the use of local
government resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfers systems?.
Through this component, the bank helped GoT to establish a capital grants system that
gives Local Government Authorities (LGAs) a much higher degree of freedom to allocate
capital grants across sectors than the pre-existing system, whilst ascertaining that LGAs
continued to meet good governance criteria.

There is strong evidence that the system has improved resource allocation at the LGA level
by replacing area-based grant systems with performance based ones. The share of grants
allocated to sectors with generally high economic benefit/cost ratios (notably roads, drains
and water supply) increased at the expense of investments in sectors with lower or negative
economic benefit/cost ratios (such as public buildings and real estate).




                                                      17
Moreover, this component brought efficiency in fiscal transfers and in local government
investment provision as it provided significant harmonization and greater transparency in
resource allocation to LGAs. Furthermore, Component 1 helped align LGA service
provision more closely with local needs by allowing performance-based funds to be
expended on a discretionary basis, thus eliminating economic dead-weight loss caused by
misalignment of funds and local needs.

Efficiency of Component 2 (Dar es Salaam Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening).
This component was designed to help achieve the second project development objective:
“increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es Salaam and to
improve revenue performance for sustainable operations and maintenance.? It consisted of
two sub-components: (i) the Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program (CIUP), and
(ii) the Local Revenue Enhancement / O&M Enhancement Program. The economic
benefits of the CIUP are substantially higher than the economic costs thereof, mainly
because the program has resulted in a major improvement to public health in the project
area. A recently concluded impact evaluation did not find a measurable impact of the CIUP
on flood damage or on business establishment. However, because of higher-than-expected
public health benefits, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the program was re-estimated
at 15%, which was lower than the ERR of 20% that was estimated at the time of appraisal,
but remained higher than the minimum required return of 12%.

In conclusion, the cost of achieving both project objectives was deemed reasonable in
comparison with both the benefits and with recognized norms.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project and priorities identified at appraisal remain relevant. The Project did not
achieve all of its specific targets (noting the issues with M&E), though supporting
measures demonstrates the broad achievements towards the PDOs and substantial impacts
of the Project, including unexpected benefits under Component 2. The cost associated with
the results were founds acceptable and efficient. Based on this, and considering the
performance before and after restructuring, the overall outcome rating is evaluated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

Component 1. Strengthen Fiscal Decentralization
The project was instrumental in making the GoT’s decentralization policies and strategies
operational. LGSP established a single, harmonized, and transparent formula and
performance-based system of intergovernmental transfers. The Project introduced the use
of minimum conditions as basis for LGA participation, focused on timely disbursements of
grants, and improved accountability in the use of LGA resources. This was accomplished
working through country systems. Some aspects of the Project exceeded expectations.
LGSP was instrumental in galvanizing the support of other development partners, who then
channeled their programs through the LGCDG system. Because of this, the program (which
originally intended to be a pilot supporting 41 LGAs) was rolled- out nationally to cover all




                                             18
132 LGAs. LGSP transformed the LG finance system – roughly 20 percent of the total
Tanzania Development budget goes to the local level, half of which is though LGDGs.

Component 2
CIUP (Component 2a) successfully delivered community infrastructure and improved
services per its objectives. The project was carried out in a consultation with the
community – and adapted a low-risk approach that minimized safeguards impacts and was
appropriate for the implementation capacity of the time. The project was effective in
targeting the urban poor (impacting over 300,000 persons) living in unplanned settlements
in more ways that originally intended (e.g. health and education outcomes identified
through the IE). There remains strong demand from counterparts and communities for
further engagements. The project successfully introduced the upgrading concept and
improved the capacity of the three municipalities to implement such operations. GoT has
requested to scale-up CIUP through the Dar es Salaam Metropolitan Development Project
(under preparation).

The Revenue Enhancement Program (Component 2b) – despite numerous challenges
during implementation – facilitated the identification and valuation of all taxable properties
in the DLAs. The original target was to carry-out the valuation of 100,000 properties
starting from a baseline of 40,000 – however, by the end of the Project, 425,610 properties
were inspected and valued. Results for “increasing the tax rate? could have been better, but
this was a political issue outside the direct influence of the Project.

For evaluation purposes, a project’s development objectives encompass both those stated in
the project documents together with the key associated outcome targets. In the case of
restructured projects in which key associated outcome targets are formally revised, the
evaluation is based on the average grade (and associated numeric scale) of separate
outcomes before and after restructuring, weighted by the level of disbursement at the time
of restructuring. In this case, approximately 54 percent of the Credit had been disbursed at
the time of restructuring.

Table 4: Outcome Rating Assessment

               PDOs                             (A)                    (B)              (A) + (B)
                                        Before Restructuring    After Restructuring       Final
1. Strengthen fiscal decentralization            MS                     MS
& improve management of the                  (4 x 54%) = 2.16       (4 x 46%) = 1.84                4.00
intergovernmental transfer system
2. Increase access to infrastructure             MS                     MS
and series in unplanned areas of Dar         (4 x 54%) = 2.16       (4 x 46%) = 1.84                4.00
es Salaam
Weight (% disbursed before/after                        54%                    46%      8.46 / 2 = 4.00
PDO change)
Overall Rating                          -                       -                      Moderately
                                                                                       Satisfactory




                                                   19
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The results from the impact evaluation (section 2.2) identify some of the positive effects on
the targeted beneficiaries of Component 2 for community upgrading. CIUP was effective
in targeting the urban poor as intended at design – this due primarily to the early
identification of the low-income communities and adherence to the selection criteria and
methodology. As noted above, benefits beyond those initially intended, including positive
health and education impacts, were an added benefit. For example, the CIUP interventions
are associated with an overall increase in student school enrolment from 85% to 89%, with
particular focus on girls over 13.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The Project’s Moderate risk rating reflects the combined risk to the development outcome -
at evaluation – of the three primary interventions carried out under the Project. The risks
that the gains and systems supporting decentralization will not be maintained by the
government are moderate. The government remains committed (demonstrated by the new
ULGSP PforR) to decentralization, though there are risks in the ability to maintain past
levels of effort outside a project based approach. There are also risks to the overall
LGCDG system, which has relied more than originally anticipated on donor funds (which
are now ending) while GoT has not taken on the funding commitments earlier envisioned.

There are Significant risks to maintain the development outcome of the CIUP/upgrading
work across the board as O&M is not adequately funded. Furthermore, unless the
upgrading concept is continued as expected during appraisal, the gains made in improving
access under Phases 1 and 2 will be lost. The Revenue Enhancement Work has moderate
risks to the development outcomes, as the systems and tools are in place; the tax base has
been expanded, capacity has been improved, and strong incentives are in place to at least
maintain current efforts. Expanding the tax rate will be a challenging key next step, – but it
does not put at risk the development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
At appraisal, the proposed budget was reduced from the USD90.3 million (estimates as
basis for preparation) to USD52.2 million due to IDA-13 budget constraints. The design
was adjusted to accommodate the unexpected change and also to prepare for future scale-
up through additional financing.

The project was designed to develop the long-term institutional infrastructure and capacity
to support decentralization. Preparation of Component 1 was coordinated closely with the
Development Partners, and designed to leverage the various sources of financing to support
LGAs through a comprehensive and consistent mechanism. Participating LGAs (originally


                                             20
47) were identified through established criteria, and operations manuals were prepared for
appraisal. Component 1 utilized the existing GoT fiscal framework.

Component 2 (CIUP and enhanced revenue collection) focused on key operational and
urban management competencies supporting the DLAs. Component 2a, CIUP, followed a
set methodology to target and select poor communities for upgrading, and the project
concept was vetted by these communities. Implementation and capacity constraints were
assessed, resulting in a lower-risk upgrading approach that did not include trunk
infrastructure (and the associated resettlement). The requirement for counterpart
contribution (DLA and communities) was justified as a sign of demand, but did not result
in working O&M arrangements. Overall, the CIUP upstream analysis, implementation
arrangements, and design were well conceived and based on lessons from prior Bank
operations. The analytical work for preparation of the revenue enhancement activities
(Component 2b) was developed through a team of international and national experts. The
preparation team was transparent about the risks with this activity – ‘noting the substantial
risk that it would not be effective.’

The analytical foundations of the Project were well prepared, strategically relevant, and
closely coordinated with a broad array of stakeholders. The risks, mitigation measures, and
benefits were assessed and discussed openly during preparation. The MS rating reflects the
ambitious elements of the design. The M&E design and implementation was problematic,
given that the targets set were overly ambitious or difficult to monitor, and do not seem to
fully capture the full impacts/results of the project. The budget reduction introduced at
appraisal (due to the IDA shortfall) was not ideal, however the task team and GoT made
swift changes and contingency arrangements, that allowed additional financing to be
restored at a later stage.

Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Project encountered operational challenges in-line with the anticipated risks. The
Bank’s responses were generally adequate, timely, and proactive. The quality of
supervision documentation was satisfactory. The Aide Memories were detailed, tracked
the progress of follow-up recommendations, and identified key issues and risks. The ISR
ratings tended to focus on the overall positive state of the Project, which overshadowed
some of the technical/sector specific issues that required attention as raised in the Aide
Memoires. In some instances (for FM, M&E, counterpart funding, and safeguards), ISR
ratings may have been higher than warranted.

The diverse mix of interventions made the Project challenging to supervise. However, the
intensive level of the Bank’s supervision effort was a significant contributing factor to the
positive outcomes. The presence of field-based TTL allowed the Bank to closely monitor
and respond to implementation issues. Overall, the Bank’s supervision was responsive to
the technical demands of both: (i) the civil works under CIUP; and (ii) the less formulaic
interventions in capacity building and institutional development. Supervision was also
well coordinated with Development Partners.




                                             21
Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the government (PMO-RALG), two Project Support Teams (PST PMO-RALG for
Component 1 and 3; and PST-Dar for Component 2), and Dar es Salaam LGAs did a
reasonable job supervising and implementing an innovative and complex project.

The notable achievements of the borrowers’ performance included:
 Strong leadership of PMO-RALG in (i.) coordinating development partners and
   leveraging resources to support the decentralization agenda, (ii.) coordinating LGAs
   involved in the program. PMO-RALG’s capacity grew, and now it is the focal point for
   urban interventions with all development partners.
 A high level of responsiveness to the requirements of preparing a Bank project,
   including: (i) quality and timely analytical work for each component as basis for
   appraisal, (ii) feedback from communities/beneficiaries on the project design, (iii)
   preparation of operations manuals; and (iv) a good partnership in carrying-out the
   Impact Evaluation.
 The project largely achieved its overall objectives due to the client’s adaptable
   approach (overcoming the reduction in the IDA budget at appraisal, and persevering
   through the institutional challenges of the revenue enhancement component, etc) and
   collaborative working relationship with the Bank and Development Partners.

There were some shortcomings (detailed in section 2.2) in the government’s performance
during implementation, notably:(i.) lack of contribution of counterpart funds for CIUP and
ineligible use of IDA funds, (ii.) poor timeliness and quality of M&E systems and
assessment of outcomes, (iii.) poor contract management, and (iv.) the low level of GoT
contribution to the LGCDG systems and transfer of funds to non-qualifying councils. The
project design was complex (piloting new initiatives), so overall the borrower did a solid
job implementing an ambitious program.

6. Lessons Learned

Key operational lessons from LGSP were incorporated into the design of the new (PforR)
Urban Local Government Strengthening Program. These include: (i.) distinguishing
between urban and rural local governments due to the different financial and capacity needs,
(ii.) using independent assessors (for minimum access conditions and other
indicators/reviews) to increase transparency, (iii.) providing a financial incentive for central
government to disburse funds on time, and (iv.) adopting the same collaborative and
comprehensive preparation practices.




                                              22
A low-risk approach to upgrading achieves results. The Project adopted a low-risk
approach for upgrading with minimal trunk infrastructure and resettlement. Given this was
the DLA’s first upgrading project and the known capacity constraints – this was a prudent
approach. The Impact Evaluation shows improved access to services, and even health and
education benefits. The differences in some areas (local business development, self-
investment in housing, incomes, reduction in flooding, etc) between the CIUP communities
and control groups is not as striking as might be expected, particularly compared to other
upgrading projects with trunk infrastructure. Nonetheless, the low-risk approach was
appropriate given the complexity, counterpart capacity, and available resources. Now that
the DLAs have experience with upgrading, future initiatives have room to be more
ambitious and to try to improve coverage and connectivity to trunk infrastructure.

Thinking beyond infrastructure and looking at human development factors is key to
successful upgrading. The Impact Evaluation highlighted the expected improvements in
infrastructure service. However, the gains in health and school enrolment for girls were
not expected, and the reasons for the positive impacts are not fully understood. This
highlights the far-reaching impacts of upgrading, and also points to the potential for further
gains if the involvement of human development specialists is planned during both the
design and implementation stages.

Counterpart contributions may not be appropriate for a project of this nature, particularly
for upgrading. Counterpart contributions were required at all levels for all components –
the rationale at project design was to demonstrate demand and commitment. However, it is
not clear that counterpart contributions increased ownership. Instead this became a
constant issue discussed during implementation and added to the complexity to the project.
Counterpart contributions were often paid late and delayed works/project activities; or were
not paid at all raising FM challenges. As the counterpart contributions (5 % of capital
costs) required from poor communities had no direct link with O&M requirements for the
investments, this raises questions regarding appropriateness of arrangements for the
collection and use of funds. An unintentional contribution to elite capture may have also
been triggered (as land/house-owners who paid the counterpart contribution tended to
dominate the planning process over their renters.).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower provided an ICR Executive Summary, which is included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
The draft ICR was circulated for review and comments to all development partners/ local
government donor coordination group – no comments were received.




                                             23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Component 1. Support for Local
Government Capital Development           35.00             113.28                323.0
Grant System
Component 2. Dar es Salaam
Upgrading and Institutional              17.30               17.30                   0
Strengthening
Component 3. Support to PMO-
                                          6.60                8.40               127.0
RALG
             Total Baseline Cost         58.90             156.70


Physical Contingencies
                                             0.80              0.80               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                             1.10              1.30              118.0
              Total Project Costs           60.80            158.80
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00              0.00                 .0
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00              0.00                 .0
      Total Financing Required              60.80            158.80              259.0




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)   millions)
Borrower                                Counterpart          6.50        3.90         .00
International Development
                                                           52.00       150.00             .00
Association (IDA)
Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
                                        Counterpart         2.30         4.90             .00
Borrowing Country
Total                                                      60.80        158.8




                                                24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


PDO Objective 1. To strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve accountability in the use of local government
resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfer systems;
Indicator                                     Baseline   End target Actual
80 percent of participating LGAs meet         0%         80%        97%
minimum access conditions for accessing                             (FY 2010/11)
LGCDF by FY 2009/10
80 percent of participating LGAs with         20%        80%        54%
‘clean’ (i.e. unqualified) audit certificates                       (FY 2010/11)
by FY2009/10
Transfers to participating LGAs are           0%         100%       In 2008/09, 83.3% of transfers to LGAs
effected within the first 30 days of each                           were made within the first 30 days of each
quarter of each FY by FY 2009/10                                    quarter. However, in FY 2009/10 during
                                                                    the July –Dec 09 period, only 44% of the
Note: IDA contribution to LDGD system                               transfers were made within the first 30
ended in Dec 2010.                                                  days of the quarter

PDO Objective 2. to increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es Salaam and to
improve revenue performance for sustainable operations and maintenance
Indicator                                   Baseline14   End        Actual
                                                         target
Access to Services is improved: (a.) the    25% of       80%        97%
increase in the proportion of streets, (b.) Phase I and             (FY 2010/11)
the reduction in households experiencing    7% of Phase
flooding; (c.) percentage increase of       II
enterprises.                                22% of       10%        Figures not collected at end of the project.
                                            Phase I and             Alternative measures, discussed in section
                                            20% of                  3.1 of the ICR from the Impact Evaluation
                                            Phase II                are highlighted
                                            households
                                            1,838 in     30%        Figures not collected at end of the project.
                                            Phase I and             Alternative measures, discussed in section
                                            1,429 in                3.1 of the ICR from the Impact Evaluation
                                            Phase II                are highlighted
Dar es Salaam local Authorities (DLA)       Own source   50%        151% Own Source revenue = 41.0 billion in
revenue performance; (a.) % increase in     revenue =               July 2011 to May 2012, per June 19, 2011
DLA won-source revenue by FY2011/12; Tshs 16.
(b.) % unrestricted transfers and DLA       billion
revenues                                    6.65%        8%         11.9 %




14
  The Baseline indicators are reported, though were not based on the same data as the
Impact Evaluation data – thus final results cannot be compared to the original baseline and
are no relevant.



                                                   25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Project Appraisal Document contains an economic analysis of Component 1 (Support for Local
Government Capital Development Grant System) and Component 2a (Community Infrastructure
Upgrading Program), and a financial analysis of Component 2b (Local Revenue Enhancement /
O&M Enhancement Program). 15 The cost of these components accounted for 86% of the total
project cost at appraisal, and for 93% at project completion (Table A3.1). For each of the three (sub-
)components, this annex summarizes the results of the economic or financial analysis in the PAD,
and a re-evaluation of the results at the time of project completion.

      Table A3.1: Cost and Type of Economic or Financial Analysis Conducted by
                                     Component
                                       Cost (US$ million)        Cost (% Total)     Type of Analysis
             Component
                                      Appraisal    Actual      Appraisal   Actual     Conducted
1 Support for Local Government            35.0         113.3        58        71    Economic
  Capital Development Grant                                                         analysis,
  System                                                                            qualitative
2a Community Infrastructure                                                         Economic
   Upgrading Program                                                                analysis,
                                        } 17.3     } 35.0         } 28      } 22    quantitative
2b Local Revenue Enhancement /                                                      Financial
   O&M Enhancement Program                                                          Analysis
3 Support to PMO-RALG.                     6.6           8.4        11         5    None
     Contingencies                         1.9           2.1         3         1
     TOTAL                                60.8      158.8         100        100
Source: World Bank

Economic Analysis of LGCDG
Results of analysis at appraisal. The Local Government Capital Development Grant (LGCDG)
System would provide unconditional capital grants to Local Government Authorities (LGAs), and
gradually replace a system of central government grants earmarked for specific sectors or specific
areas. Part of the LGCDG grants would be based on the performance of LGAs in planning,
budgeting and governance. At appraisal, it was assumed that the proposed system would generate
three types of economic benefits:
1.    Reduced transaction costs. The PAD acknowledges that the transaction costs of LGAs would
      remain “approximately equal? under the new system, but assumes that transaction costs of
      central government agencies and development partners involved in the administration of
      sector-specific or area-specific grants would be eliminated.




15
       No economic or financial analysis was undertaken for Component 3, which largely
 consists of investments in technical assistance (the economic benefits of which are largely
 indirect and therefore difficult to assess).



                                                  26
2.   Improved allocation of scarce resources by individual LGAs. The LGCDG system would
     provide LGAs with a much higher degree of freedom to allocate capital grants across sectors
     than the pre-existing system. Assuming that LGAs have better information about local needs
     than central government agencies (and would use this information for planning and
     budgeting), they will allocate capital grants to investment projects with a higher economic
     benefit/cost ratio than would otherwise be the case.
3.   Improved allocation of scarce resources across LGAs. Part of the LGCDG grants will be
     channeled to LGAs that perform best in planning, budgeting and governance. Such LGAs are
     likely to better allocate capital grants than other LGAs, thereby further increasing the
     economic benefit/cost ratio of the LGCDG grants.
Because investments financed by LGCDG capital grants were not pre-defined but demand-driven, it
was not possible to conduct a quantitative economic analysis of the system.

Re-evaluation of results at completion. Upon completion of the project, there was reason to
believe that the LGCDG grant system had indeed resulted in improved allocation of scarce
resources at the LGA level. However, the reduction in transaction costs and the impact of the
performance-based element in the grant formula seemed less significant than envisaged at the time
of appraisal. More specifically:
1.   Reduced transaction costs. For two reasons, the PAD appears to be overly optimistic about the
     reduction in transaction costs that attributable to the LGCDG system. Firstly, the management
     and administration of the system requires more involvement from LGA officers than the
     relatively simple and straightforward system of sector-specific and area-based grants (this is
     likely to lead to better decisions about the allocation of scarce resources, but at an incremental
     transaction cost to the LGA). Secondly, the transaction cost at the central government level
     will not be eliminated completely, partly because the implementation of the LGCDG system
     will require management and coordination at the central level, but also because some of the
     sector-specific grants have remained in place (as was indeed envisaged at appraisal).
2.   Improved allocation of scarce resources by individual LGAs. To estimate the net economic
     benefits of improved allocation of capital grants at the LGA level, it would be necessary to
     estimate the net economic benefits of investments projects financed before and after the
     introduction of the LGCDG system (any systematic increase in such benefits could be
     attributed to the new capital grant mechanism). Because of time and resource constraints, it
     was not possible to conduct this type of analysis. There is, however, reason to believe that the
     LGCDG system has improved resource allocation at the LGA level. This is because of a
     change in the sectoral composition of LGAs capital budgets since the sector-specific and area-
     based grant systems were largely replaced by the LGCDG system. In many LGAs, the share
     of grants allocated to sectors with generally high economic benefit/cost ratios (notably roads,
     drains and water supply) increased at the expense of investments in sectors with traditionally
     lower economic benefit/cost ratios (notably government offices). However, this effect was to
     some extent negated by central government interference in the sectoral allocation (because of
     an instruction of the Prime Minister, over 40% of total grants were allocated to the
     construction of secondary school buildings during FY2004/05 - FY2010/11).
3.      Improved allocation of scarce resources across LGAs. The economic benefits from this
source are likely to be limited, given fiscal incentives have weakened since the performance -based
grant system was introduced. Since FY 2009/10 over 90% of LGAs qualified for 100% of the




                                                 27
performance-based portion, so that the system no longer makes a meaningful distinction between
poor-performing and well-performing LGAs.16
In spite of the limited impact of the LGCDG system on transaction costs and a dilution of the
performance-based grant element, the economic benefits of improved allocation of resources at the
LGA level are highly significant, so that the component as a whole has, in all likelihood, generate
substantial net economic benefits.

Economic Analysis of CIUP
Results of analysis at appraisal. The Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program (CIUP)
financed improvements to basic infrastructure in 31 settlement areas in Dar es Salaam, which had a
combined population of approximately 330,000 in 2004. At the time of appraisal, the economic rate
of return (ERR) of the CIUP was estimated at approximately 20%, well above the Bank’s minimum
required rate of 12%. The net present value (NPV) of the economic benefits of the program was
about TSh 3.95billion (or US$3.6 million equivalent). The quantifiable economic benefits consisted
of:
1.     Reduced costs of flood damage. These were estimated as the sum of reductions in:
       (i) cleaning and repair costs borne by households (TSh 4,000 per household per year), and
       (ii) road maintenance costs (3.7% of investment cost per year).
2.     Reduced health costs. These were estimated as the sum of reductions in: (i) costs of treatment
       of waterborne diseases (TSh 4,524 per household per year, which was equivalent to about
       US$4.5 in 2003), and (ii) income lost due to waterborne diseases (about US$4.7 per
       household per year).
3.     Increased economic growth. At appraisal, it was estimated that CIUP-financed improvements
       to basic infrastructure would cause the establishment of two new business enterprises per
       hectare, and each enterprise would add value to the economy of TSh 5,000 per day (or TSh
       1.5 million annually, assuming 300 business days per year).
The net present value of economic benefits from increased economic growth accounted for 73% of
the total NPV of the CIUP, followed by the reduced cost of flood damage and reduced health costs
(which, taken together, accounted for the remaining 27% of the total NPV).

          Table A3.2: Type of Economic Benefits and Key Assumptions for CIUP
        Type of Economic Benefit / Key         Appraisal    Actual              Comment
                 Assumption
1 Reduced costs of flood damage
     Reduced cleaning and repair cost per HH      4,000          –    No reduction relative to control
     per year (TSh)                                                   group*
     Reduced road maintenance costs (%              3.7          –    Road maintenance cost is zero
     investment)                                                      in base case (no reduction
                                                                      possible)
2 Reduced health costs



16
     Evaluation of LGSP Support for the Local Government Development Grant System.
 DEGE Consult in association with The Urban Institute. Dar-Es-Salaam. 2012.



                                                 28
     Reduced costs of treatment of                           4.5         42.3     Assumed values at appraisal
     waterborne diseases per HH per year                                          substantially lower than
     (US$ equivalent)                                                             generally accepted estimates of
     Reduced income due to waterborne                        4.7         42.3     reduced per capita health
     diseases per HH per year                                                     costs**
     (US$ equivalent)
3 Increased economic growth
   Additional new businesses established                     2.0          0.0     No increase in business forma-
(#/Ha)                                                                            tion relative to control group*
  Added value per business per year (TSh                     1.5          1.5
m)
Source: World Bank
* See impact evaluation for details
** Assumption based on: (i) 50% of unweighted annual per capita losses in Cambodia, Indonesia, the Philippines and
   Vietnam, corrected for general price inflation during 2003-2008, and (ii) an average HH size of 4.5.

Re-evaluation of results at completion. In 2013, the Bank completed an impact evaluation of the
CIUP.17 The evaluation was based on an extensive survey of 1,860 households, spread out over 31
settlement areas covered by CIUP (“treatment area?) and 12 settlement areas not covered by the
program (“control        area?). The same households were surveyed in 2006 (baseline) and 2012
(endline). The impact evaluation suggests that CIUP-financed interventions have resulted in major
improvements to public health, but not in measurable changes to flood damage or business
formation. With respect to the assessment of economic benefits, the key findings of the evaluation
can be summarized as follows:
1.     Reduced costs of flood damage. Despite CIUP-financed improvements in drainage, the
       proportion of households in the treatment area reporting that they experienced flooding in the
       past 12 months remained approximately 25% in both 2006 and 2012. Moreover, in 2012
       households in the treatment area were 13 percentage points more likely to be flooded than
       households in the control area (even though households in the control area had not benefited
       from improvements to drainage infrastructure). The impact evaluation points out that these
       results should be considered with care, “since flooding is an inherently geographic shock?,
       and some areas may be more flood-prone than others due to their location and average
       rainfall.
2.     Reduced health costs. The impact evaluation identified a major reduction in two major
       waterborne diseases (diarrhea and acute respiratory illness), the prevalence of which
       decreased at much higher rates in the treatment area than in the control area. This effect was
       limited to children; no impact was found for adults. In the treatment area, the incidence of
       diarrhea decreased from 22% in 2006 to 12% in 2012, and the incidence of ARI dropped from
       27% to 18% in the same period. These decreases coincided with a reduction in the severity
       and duration of both diseases. Moreover, the PAD assumed unusually low per capita health
       costs (US$4.5 per household). In August 2008, the Bank published a comprehensive study on
       the economic benefits of improved sanitation in four Southeast Asian countries (Cambodia,




17
      From the Ground Up: An Impact Evaluation of the Community Infrastructure
 Upgrading Programme in Dar Es Salaam. World Bank, 2013.



                                                         29
     Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam).18 This study estimated the annual per capita health
     costs of poor sanitation at approximately US$9.4 per capita in constant 2003 prices. This is
     equivalent to about US$42 per household per year (assuming a household size of 4.5), which
     is nine times higher than the amount assumed in the PAD.
3.   Increased economic growth. In 2012, about 57% of the labor force in the treatment area was
     self-employed, a substantially higher share than in the control area (44%). However, this
     difference was already present at baseline, indicating no change between the two groups over
     time. The impact evaluation therefore concluded that “CIUP interventions … did not have
     significant impacts on employment, business operations, income and expenditure, [or] private
     investment?. In contrast, the PAD anticipated that over 70% of the net present value of the
     project would be caused by increased economic growth. On the positive side, the impact
     evaluation also mentioned a series of economic benefits that were not anticipated at the time
     of appraisal, but are likely to have been caused by CIUP -financed investments and may
     improve economic growth in the long term. These most important of these are improved
     security, and improved female school participation rates.
In summary, the economic analysis that was prepared during appraisal appears to have
overestimated the economic benefits from reduced flood damage and increased economic growth,
and underestimated the benefits of reduced health costs by a significant margin. Because the
spreadsheet model that was prepared in 2003 to make these calculations is no longer available, it
was not possible to re-assess the net economic benefits of CIUP directly. An alternative model was
therefore used to re-assess the benefits of this component. Based on a series of highly conservative
assumptions, the re-estimated ERR of 15% is lower than the ERR that was estimated at the time of
appraisal (20%), but remains above the Bank’s minimum required economic rate of return of 12%
(Table A3.3).




18
       Economic Impacts of Sanitation in Indonesia – A five-country study conducted in
 Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, the Philippines, and Vietnam under the Economics of
 Sanitation Initiative, World Bank, Jakarta, August 2008.



                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                           Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Solomon Alemu               Consultant                       AFTUW
Zhiyu Jerry Chen            Young Professional                YPP
Bella Lelouma Diallo        Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM
Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo   Procurement Analyst              AFTUW
Rumana Huque                Sr Urban Spec.                   AFTUW
Rosemary Mukami Kariuki     Sector Leader                    AFTUW
Mwanaisha Kassanga          Program Assistant                AFCE1
Jane A. N. Kibbassa         Senior Environmental Specialis   AFTEN
Rowena J. Martinez          Consultant                       AFTUW
Faith-Lucy Matumbo          Team Assistant                   AFCE1
Barjor E. Mehta             Sr Urban Spec.                   AFTUW
Donald Paul Mneney          Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC
David Mayala Mulongo        Urban Specialist                 AFTUW
Elisa Muzzini               Economist                        SASDU
Nathaniel Paynter           Water & Sanitation Specialist    TWIWP
Uri Raich                   Sr Urban Spec.                   AFTUW
Mercy Mataro Sabai          Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM
Rildo Santos                Language Program Assistant       AFTUW
Zara Inga Sarzin            Senior Urban Development Spec    AFTUW
Helen Z. Shahriari          Sr Social Scientist              AFTCS




                                           31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                46.87
  FY02                                                               164.44
  FY03                                                               139.26
  FY04                                                               439.55
  FY05                                                               257.11
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:                                    1047.23
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                               149.26
  FY06                                                               295.10
  FY07                                                               215.43
  FY08                                                               281.90
                          Total:                                     941.69




                                       32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
N/A




                                      33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The DIME Impact Evaluation team held a workshop on January 29, 2012 with key
stakeholders (DLAs, PMO-RALG, NGOs, press, and other key ministries) to present the
draft CIUP Study. An estimated 50 persons participated in the participatory workshop, and
provided feedback on the draft, focusing on qualitative interpretation of the statistical data.




                                              34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

               Tanzania Local Government Support Project (LGSP), 2005-2011
                                  [Component 1/3 Only]

1. Introduction
In order to improve the allocation of local development funds, the Government of Tanzania (GoT)
sought to introduce a Local Capital Development Grant System that would form a single,
harmonized, objective and transparent mechanism to provide development grants to the LGA level.
This vision was expressed in the Letter of Sector Policy on Fiscal Devolution of the Budget and
Local Government Capacity Building (15th October 2004) that envisioned that “the LGCDG
system will be established as the main modality through which funds for capital investment are
transferred from central government and donors to LGAs. Ultimately the LGCDG system
procedures and modalities will be the vehicle for the transfer of all development funds to LGAs,
including sectoral programmes.?

The introduction and strengthening of the LGCDG was funded under the Local Government
Support Programme (LGSP) from 2005 through 2011. LGSP consisted of three components:

       Component 1: Support for Local Government Council Development Grant System
       Component 2: Dar es Salaam Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening,
       Component 3: Support to PMO-RALG

In addition to Government contributions and funding from the World Bank, LGCDG has been
supported by contributions from the Netherlands, Finland, Ireland, Germany (KfW), Japan, Sweden
and Belgium.

2. Background to the LGSP
The formulation of LGSP was driven by two elements of the Government of Tanzania’s (GoT’s)
overall development approach: the Poverty Reduction Strategy and the Local Government Reform
Policy.

Poverty Reduction Strategy.
The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) outlined the Government’s priority sectors in which
improved service delivery was identified as vital to the overall goal of poverty reduction. These
sectors included education, health, roads and water – the main sectors for local government capital
investment. As a result, LGSP was designed to support investment in these priority sectors by
providing capital to LGAs for expansion and rehabilitation of infrastructure, and targeted funds for
Dar es Salaam LGAs to improve infrastructure in unplanned urban areas.

Local Government Reform Policy.
The Government has been pursuing a well-articulated policy of decentralization by devolution since
1996 that aims for the transfer of powers, functions and resources to elected multifunctional local
governments. The implementation of the Local Government Reform Policy is coordinated by the
Prime Minister’s Office – Regional Administration and Local Governance (PMO-RALG). Since
2000, local government reforms have been supported through a dedicated Local Government
Reform Program (LGRP) that has aimed to support the reform process through a basket-funded
program managed by a dedicated reform unit (the LGRP Team).




                                                35
As a result of the ongoing decentralization reforms, local governments in Tanzania have important
public service delivery responsibilities, including primary education, basic health services, water
provision, agricultural extension and livestock promotion, roads, as well as the provision of other
urban and local public services and infrastructure. In 2004, roughly one fifth of total recurrent
public sector expenditure in Tanzania took place at the local government level. At the same time,
however, a much smaller portion of the development budget was arriving at the local level. Prior to
the introduction of the LGCDG, most ‘local’ development spending in Tanzania was provided
through area-based programs (ABPs) or managed through sectoral development programs anchored
with different central line ministries. Despite the fact that many of these programs were funded by
the same development partners, local development resources were thus provided through a
fragmented and uncoordinated system of intergovernmental finance.

3. Project Objectives
LGSP’s project objectives were to:
(i)     to strengthen fiscal decentralisation, improve accountability in the use of local government
resources, and improve management of intergovernmental transfer system and demand-driven
urban investments; and
(ii)    to increase access to infrastructure and services in unplanned areas of Dar es Salaam and to
improve revenue performance for sustainable operation and maintenance.19

A Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed between the Government of Tanzania and the
World Bank for LGSP on January 19, 2005. The original project credit was for US$52 million with
a closing date on June 30, 2008. The project received additional financing on August 30, 2006
which led to the total credit under LGSP of US$150 million. In 2009 the project was restructured to
allow completion of works in Dar es Salaam and to fund preparation of the Tanzania Strategic
Cities Project as well as extend the closing date to June 30, 2012. The project objectives were at
that time revised with the inclusion of the underlines text above.

4. Project Components and Objectives
The LGSP consisted of three components:

Component 1: Support for Local Government Council Development Grant System – This
component supported the introduction of a Local Government Development Grant (LGDG) system,
which also received support from the Government of Tanzania (GoT) and other development
partners. The core if the LGCDG system included two intergovernmental transfers: (a) the Council
Development Grant (CDG), and (b) the Capacity Building Grant (CBG). The CDG provided
discretionary cross-sectoral capital transfers, which were distributed on a formula basis to Local
Government Authorities (LGAs) for investment in accordance with local needs as determined
through local participatory planning and budgetary processes. The CBG provided resources to
LGAs to help them to build their capacity to access and manage the CDG. Subsequent to the initial
launch of the initial launch of the LGCDG, “sectoral grant windows? were added to the LGCDG
system. In 2008, the name of the system was shortened to the Local Government Development
Grant (LGDG) system.


19
  The words underlined above were added to enable funding of the (preparation and
implementation of the) proposed Tanzania Strategic Cities Project (which subsequently
became effective in 2010).



                                                36
Component 2: Dar es Salaam Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening, had two sub-components:
    Sub-Component 2(a): Community Infrastructure Upgrading Programme (CIUP). This sub-
      component aims to improve access to infrastructure and services for roughly 20% of the
      population of Dar es Salaam who reside in unplanned areas.
    Sub-Component 2(b): Local Revenue Enhancement and O&M Programme. This sub-
      component aims to significantly increase own-source revenues of Dar es Salaam City
      Council and the three Municipal Councils of Kinondoni, Ilala and Temeke to enable
      improved budgeting and implementation of Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
      programmes in the city/municipalities.

Component 3: Support to PMO-RALG – This component supported the Prime Minister’s Office -
Regional Administration and Local Government (PMO-RALG) in the implementation, monitoring,
evaluation and audits of the Project, and the intergovernmental transfers supported by Component 1
while building capacity of PMO-RALG to execute the functions as part of routine activities. This
component further supported preparation activities of the Tanzania Strategic Cities Project (TSCP).

5. Project Management
A LGSP Project Support Unit (PSU) located within PMO-RALG initially coordinated the
implementation of the LGCDG during the initial years of the project (under LGSP Component 1).
However, in line with the objective of strengthening permanent institutional arrangements for fiscal
decentralization, at the end of June 2007, the management of the LGCDG was mainstreamed within
PMO-RALG under the Assistant Director for Local Government (LGA Finance).

Two committees were established for technical oversight and policy guidance:
   1. The LGDG Steering Committee provides policy oversight over the LGDG system. It is a
       senior-level inter-ministerial steering committee composed of the Permanent Secretaries
       from PMO-RALG, Finance, and relevant sector ministries. The role of the LGDG Steering
       Committee is to ensure that participating LGAs meet the required eligibility criteria; to
       approve the grant allocations in accordance to the allocation formulas; to make final
       decisions on appeals made by LGAs and to discuss and approve overall policy matters
       including revisions of formula, manuals, etc.
   2. LGCDG Technical Committee, chaired by Deputy PS PMO-RALG, includes relevant
       heads of departments from PMO-RALG as well as the Ministry of Finance, relevant line
       ministries, participating DPs, ALAT, and other relevant stakeholders. The role of the
       LGDG Technical Committee is to review work plans, budgets and progress reports
       prepared by PMO-RALG; review the annual performance assessment of LGAs; and make
       recommendations to the LGDG Steering Committee, as appropriate.
LGDG Quarterly technical Reviews have been conducted on a rotating basis in different regions,
where different stakeholders in the field jointly review progress and issues related to the LGDG.
In addition, a LG Capacity Building Consultative Group was established to review management
and coordination of capacity building activities.
During the first few years of LGSP, both the Steering Committee as well as the Technical
Committee met on a quarterly basis and functioned effectively in shaping the LGDG system.
However, as the implementation of the LGDG became more routine, the LGDG TC and SC have
met only once per year in order to approve the national synthesis report and LGDG budget. In
addition the LGDG Quarterly Technical Reviews have for the last two years only met twice a year
rather than quarterly.




                                                37
6. Project Cost and Financing
Over the course of the LGSP project period, the core LGDG provided roughly US$ 350 million in
capital development finance to the local government level, in addition to approximately $30 million
in CBG funding. Roughly 25 percent of the total grants provided under the LGDG system were
funded from IDA resources, whereas the government contributed approximately 17 percent. The
remainder of the cumulative grant pool was provided by DPs.


                  Table 1: Core LGDG - Disbursements by source, 2004/05 – 2011/12
                                  (actual amounts, US$ millions)20
                                         GOT                          IDA-
                          LGDG                       DP-funded                   Core LGDG
     Financial Year                   allocations                    funded
                         universe                    allocations                   (Total)
                                       (LGDG)                      allocations
     2004/05                 47                          4.5                          4.5
     2005/06                113           5.3            18.2          16.0          39.5
     2006/07                121           4.7            24.6          16.1          45.4
     2007/08                121           2.1            41.6          14.7          58.3
     2008/09                132           4.4            41.6          22.2          68.2
     2009/10                132           33.5           43.0          15.3          91.7
     2010/11                132           16.7           46.7          12.5          75.9
     Total for period                     66.5          220.1          96.8         383.5
     Sources: Cumulative Annual Assessment Report 2004/05-2006/07 (July 2008); World Bank
     LGSP AM (March 2009); Annual LGDP Reports (2008/09 – 2010/11).


7. Project Results
Improvements in local public service delivery and local governance
Through its funding of the LGDG, LGSP has had a major impact on improved local infrastructure
and local public service delivery in Tanzania. Since its inception in 2004/05, approximately
US$350 million has been transferred in Council Development Grants under the Core LGDG in
order to fund local infrastructure. Additional details on the local infrastructure projects that were
funded under LGDG and other specific project results include:

         Approximately 50% of local investments have been implemented by HLGs (District
          Councils and Municipalities and Town councils) and approximately 50% by LLGs (based
          on IPF allocated at ward level). The actual implementation of LLG projects were typically
          undertaken by Village Governments, School committees or other user committees.



20
   For further details, see the "Evaluation of LGSP Implementation (Component 1 and 3) to Inform the
Preparation of the Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR), June 2012." The table provides an
indicative (rather than authoritative) break-down of disbursements by funding source, as historical project
documents were not always consistent with regard to different disbursement levels by funding source. With
regards to GoT contributions, the table only reflects direct LGDG grants provided by the GoT to LGAs
through its regular budget processes, and does not reflect direct contributions of GoT to the LGSP Account
(which was used to project operation and implementation costs in addition to grant funding).



                                                    38
      The projects have in particular funded construction of secondary schools (43% of total
       expenditures) but also a large number of investments for LGA administrative purposes
       (20% for ward offices, village offices, etc.), health facilities (8%), primary education (8%),
       works (85), agriculture and livestock (4%) and smaller investments in water sector and
       other sectors. The expenditure patterns reflect to a large extent LGAs remaining funding
       priorities after allocation of significant sector grants for water, health, and agriculture under
       the LGDG system.
      Value for money audits have been undertaken twice during the lifetime of the LGSP and
       indicate that approximately 80% of all investments are of “good? or “best? value. Only 1 -
       2% of investments have been categorized as “poor value?.
      Citizen perception studies form the independent REPOA indicate increased satisfaction
       with LG services and LGA operations during the early years of LGDG implementation
       (unfortunately similar data are unavailable for later years of the LGDG),

Improvements in LGA capacities
    The capacities of LGAs have improved significantly over the years as reflected in the
       increasing number of LGAs that fulfil minimum conditions and score high in annual
       performance assessments,
    The introduction of the CBG has been established a modality for LGA planned and
       managed capacity building which will ensure that capacity building is directed in
       accordance to locally defined priorities. LGSP has supported the establishment of the
       overall framework for CBG delivery, including the development of ten standardized
       training modules have been developed:
            1. LGA legislation, roles and responsibilities
            2. Management and leadership skills in LGAs
            3. LGA budgeting and budget management
            4. LGA financial management and control
            5. Procurement and contract management
            6. LGA revenue mobilisation and O&M budgeting
            7. LGA development planning and strategic planning
            8. Project preparation, investment appraisal, environmental impact assessment and
                safeguard policies
            9. Monitoring and evaluation
            10. Data collection, information management and record keeping
    Lower Level Local Governments have been significantly involved in planning, budgeting
       and actual implementation of the LGDGs, which has contributed to enhanced citizen
       participation in LGA affairs,
    LGDG has introduced regular advertisement in newspapers of fiscal transfer and the
       assessment system provides incentives to LGAs that disseminate LGA finance data in
       villages and wards – in this manner the LGDG has spearheaded a process of greater local
       transparency of LGA budget and expenditure data,

Improvements in fiscal decentralization and intergovernmental fiscal relations
The most significant successes took place early on during the implementation of LGSP. In fact, the
project’s main accomplishment was arguably achieved already in 2005 by establishing the LGCDG
system as the main intergovernmental transfer modality to local governments, and by getting
multiple DPs to agree to fold their area-based programs into the LGCDG system. In particular the
Irish and Dutch programmes assisted with this transition. DP contributions were subsequently
collected into a Common Basket Fund, from which point the management and funding flows of the
LGCDG system fully took place through government budget systems. Performance assessment of



                                                 39
LGAs have been undertaken on an annual basis since 2004 and have – in particular in the early
years - worked effectively to improve the quality of local government management. The increased
commitment to fiscal decentralization by Governments stakeholders and DPs became evident by
the fact that several “sectoral windows? were established from 2005 onwards that were structured
along the same principles as the core LGDG into a wider LGDG system. This policy process was
guided by the initial Government Letter of Sector Policy (October 2004), the amended letter of
sector Policy (March 2006) and later the LGDG Memorandum of Understanding (2008).

Performance indicators
LGSP relies on three key performance monitoring indicators related to Component 1/3 of the
project, notably: (1.1) the number of LGAs receiving Capital Development Grants; (1.2) the
number of participating LGAs with “clean? audit performance records; and (1.3) the proportion of
resources transferred to LGAs which are made within the first 30 days of each quarter increased.
Although project performance fluctuated between years, Table 2 captures the best performance
outcomes that have been achieved during the LGSP project period.21

                       Table 2: Summary of Project Outcome Indicators

              Project Outcome Indicators                        Baseline       Outcomes under
                                                                2004/05              LGSP
1. Percentage of Participating LGAs meeting minimum              53.2%               97.7%
conditions for accessing the LGDG. Target: 80 %.            (25 of 47 LGAs)       (129 of 132
                                                                                    LGAs)
                                                                                    2009/10
2. Percentage of Participating LGAs with “clean? (i.e.            55.3%              80.6%
unqualified) audit certificates. Target: 80%                 (26 / 47 LGAs)    (100 / 122 LGAs)
                                                                                    2006/07
3. Percentage of transfers to LGAs that are made within            0%                83.3%
the first 30 days of each quarter. Target: 100%.                                   (2008/09)



With regard to the first performance measure (percentage of participating LGAs meeting minimum
conditions), for the past five years, all but a handful of LGAs in Tanzania have met the Minimum
Conditions for the LGDG system. In order words, the performance of the local government system
has exceeded the targeted threshold (80%) consistently since 2007/08. The success of this outcome
indicator is partly related to capacity building efforts but more significantly driven by LGAs
incentive to perform in annual assessments.

Local financial management performance has improved considerably over time, with the number of
LGAs receiving adverse audit outcomes dropping substantially from 66 in 2000 to no more than 4
during any year since the launch of LGSP. Nonetheless, LGAs in Tanzania have had a harder time
living up to the second outcome indicator: the percentage of participating LGAs with “clean? (i.e.
unqualified) audit certificates. Whereas the target for this performance measure was set at 80% in
2004, the actual performance of LGAs on this measure has fluctuated around 50% since 2004/05. In


21
  See the annual LGDG Progress Reports for more detailed discussions on performance on
the project indicators from year to year.



                                                40
fact, during 2006/07 this performance indicator was met, with 80.6 % of LGAs obtaining clean
audit opinions. However, the fact that LGAs did not attain the targeted threshold during the other
years is not necessarily indicative of poor performance of local governments in terms of financial
management and accountability. In hindsight, it was an unrealistic indicator of local financial
management, particularly as the CAG over the years has tightened the requirements for “clean?
audit certificates.

Finally, the percentage of transfers to LGAs that are made within the first 30 days of each quarter
also fell short of the performance targets set at the beginning of LGSP. There are several reasons
for these shortcomings related to DP partners concerns over reporting on past releases and
Government’s challenges of revenue generation. Nevertheless a system of regular (albeit delayed)
and formula based fiscal grant transfers to LGAs has been achieved; in 2008/09, 83 percent of
transfers to LGAs were made within the first 30 days of each quarter.

Overall attainment of the project objective
The overall project development objective “to strengthen fiscal decentralization, improve
accountability in the use of local government resources, and improve management of
intergovernmental transfers? has been achieved to a significant degree, although this achievement
has not been fully-captured by key performance indicators.

LGSP/LGDG is the first and only modality giving formula based, discretionary development
resources for the prioritization of LGAs. The need for such as grant system is now well accepted,
and almost 20 percent of the development budget is now being provided to the local government
level (of which approximately half through the LGDG system, including its sector windows). The
overall Government budget structure has also been transformed since 2004 in a manner that allow
for more transparency in the budget allocations that are being made to LGAs.

8. Major Implementation Issues Encountered
The LGSP MTR (2008) identified some weaknesses in project implementation, particularly in the
downstream monitoring and reporting of local sub-projects. In addition, it was identified that GoT’s
contributions to the system were effectively funnelled alongside LGCDG system (on a non-formula
basis), rather than being a true part of the LGCDG system. As a result, the second phase of the
project was focused on achieving sustainability of the LGCDG system by addressing some of the
program’s weaker features and by integrating the grant system further into regular government
systems.

The requirements contained in the LGDG MOU (2008) in order for other grant modalities to
become part of the LGDG system (including requirements that allocations have to be performance-
based and formula-based), seem to have discouraged other sector windows from fully joining the
LGDG system. This has had the unintended effect of creating a somewhat of an artificial separation
between “the LGDG system? and other (both government-funded and DP-funded) local
development grants.

In addition, it seems that by the final years of LGSP, changing political realities and macro-fiscal
imbalances limited the ability of the GoT to make good on its desire to increase the overall level of
funding to the local government level on a formula-basis through the LGDG system. Under
significant fiscal constraints, the GoT in 2011/12 reverted to providing each LGA a small lump-sum
grant, rather than following the regular LGDG allocation formula.




                                                 41
Although there continue to be basic administrative and cash-flow management challenges, local
government development grants are now disbursed as grants on a quarterly schedule, rather than on
an ad hoc basis or as a residual at the end of the financial year.

9. Project Sustainability
During the first three years of LGSP, the LGDG system was implemented in a more or less
projectised manner as a way to increase the access of local governments to development resources.
At the central level, a Project Support Unit managed the project, while the project’s budget was
lodged within PMO-RALG’s budget as another project.

The LGDG has since progressed from “a project? to an integral part of GoT financing modalities in
LGAs. The management of the LGDG was mainstreamed within PMO-RALG, and the LGDG
grants were moved to the regional budget votes (within the same subvote as other local government
grants). The core LGDG (the CDG and CBG) continues as the firmest and most consistent anchor
of local government development grants. The GoT co-funding of the LGDG has progressed faster
than originally envisaged in the 2003 design, although less consistent than envisioned in the 2008
LGDG MoU.

The GoT realizes that future financing at the current level of LGDG funding will be a significant
challenge. Co-financing from DPs is likely to decline due to dynamics in the global development
community just as the government’s ability to provide contributions to the LGDG is limited as its
faces macro-fiscal pressures. GoT is intent on ensuring that stakeholders engage each other in order
progress with its fiscal decentralization agenda including the continued funding of LGDG at
sustainable levels. This may include revision of the size of the LGDG grant pool compared to the
2008 MoU.

The integrated planning and budget process at LGA levels is the primary tool to ensure O&M of
LGDG funded infrastructure at local level. Independent Value for Money Audits undertaken for
PMO-RALG (2008 and 2012) and the MTR in 2008 noted that there is scope for improvements
O&M of completed facilities. The need is primarily in the form of further clarification and
documentation of O&M procedures. In can be noted that the GoT throughout the last decade has
ensured consistent and robust increases for funding of O&M through the recurrent grant system and
LGA own revenue increases

Both aspect of sustainability: sustainability of the wider intergovernmental fiscal transfer system
and the specific sustainability of LGA funded investments deserve further attention in subsequent
years of LGDG implementation.

10. Key Lessons Learnt

The LGSP was essentially designed to demonstrate how a fiscal transfer system could operate and
was initially in many aspects operated as a “project? with separate project unit etc. Nevertheless,
Government commitment ensured a rapid and successful mainstreaming of core LGDG operations
into a dedicated PMO-RALG LG Directorate. However, the wider ambition of reforming the fiscal
decentralisation also requires strong commitment from MOFEA and improvement of selected
operation procedures of its Regional and Local Government finance section. In hindsight the
project might have benefitted from more significant involvement of MOFEA and specific activities
that would support MOFEA in improving its operations related to management of fiscal transfers.

Another important lesson is that LGAs are very willing to improve their performance in accordance
to the annual performance assessments. These assessments are extremely valuable for PMO-RALG,


                                                42
LGAs and other stakeholders as guidance to where capacities should be improved. There is a need
to continue and strengthen these assessments.

11. Bank Performance
Design
Project preparation, design and quality at entry were satisfactory. The formulation of LGSP
included an extensive and highly participatory design process, which drew lessons from similar
World Bank operations and related international practices and built on the experiences of many
area-based programs previously supported by bilateral DPs. Project preparation was highly
responsive to GoT’s own vision for the intergovernmental transfer system, as there was
considerable support among the political leadership and within the highest technical levels for a
more decentralized public sector.

During the initial project preparation stages, it was foreseen that the LGCDG system would be
piloted on a small subset of LGAs for several years, but GoT decided that it sought a nation-wide
development grant system and -with additional DP support- was able to upscale the LGCDG
system to all LGAs at an early stage. Ahead of the finalization of the design of LGSP, the GoT had
a strong voice in shaping the LGDG system by preparing a Letter of Sector Policy on Fiscal
Devolution of the Budget and Local Government Capacity Building (October 2004) which
envisioned that a “LGCDG system will be established as the main modality through which funds
for capital investment are transferred from central government and donors to LGAs. Ultimately the
LGCDG system procedures and modalities will be the vehicle for the transfer of all development
funds to LGAs, including sectoral programmes.?

Implementation
The Bank provided instrumental partnership in the implementation of LGSP in terms of flexibility,
as evidenced in the constant review of the PIP to accommodate new thinking and internal budget
revisions, and agreeing to review and reschedule components in light of new developments and
opportunities. This includes in particular the project restructuring in 2009 that allowed added
emphasis on development on urban LGAs.

Reviews and Supervision
Bank supervision and implementation reviews were quite adequate and regular. It took the form of
hands-on support without necessarily interfering with the day-to-day management of the
programme. The Bank posted in the later period of LGDG a resident TTL, which helped in terms
of coordination with regular monitoring activities such as participation on LGDG Technical
committee meetings etc that also had to be coordinated with a significant number of participating
bilateral DPs. The Bank provided technical guidance on new initiatives – in particular for
development of the urban sector.

12. Borrower’s Performance
Design
The design of the LGSP Component 1 and 3 (the LGCDG) was undertaken with significant
technical depth and over a long period by resident consultants that enabled a very participatory
process. PMO-RALG was leading Government activities in the design phase but also ensured
significant inputs from other stakeholders such as the LGAs, MOFEA, CAG and sector ministries.
The Government developed a comprehensive letter of sector policy (signed by MOFEA) that
outlined the broader fiscal decentralisation policy within which the LGSP and LGDG would
operate.




                                               43
Implementation
Major implementation successes were noted at LGA levels as around 385 million USD of core
LGDG was transferred for funding their local priorities. PMO-RALG successfully undertook
efforts to build the capacities of LGAs and undertook core functions related to the management of
the LGDG system – in particular management of annual performance assessments that were used as
basis for grant allocations. However, challenges were faced in ensuring timely and reliable transfers
of the grants to LGAs and subsequent robust reporting on fund transfers and utilisation.

13. Conclusion
LGSP satisfactorily met its development objective: the project strengthened fiscal decentralization,
improved accountability in the use of local government resources, and improved management of
intergovernmental transfer system.

In particular, the project has provided significant discretionary local development resources and
introduced concepts and models for formula based grant allocations, fiscal incentives for LGAs to
engage in good governance practices, participatory planning within known budget constraints,
locally managed capacity building modalities, and decentralization of fiscal resources within HLG
to LLGs.

However, the LGDG system is currently also facing certain challenges, including difficulties in
adhering to the allocation formula, difficulty in achieving improved reliability in the completeness
and timeliness of transfers, and challenges in achieving complete and timely reports regarding local
fund utilization.

It is increasingly recognized that fiscal decentralization is a process rather than an end goal in itself.
Tanzania’s progress on fiscal decentralization reforms is naturally linked to the wider
decentralization reforms that arguably have developed along a different path in recent years than
foreseen in the 1998 Local Government reform Policy. The need to consolidate the gains made
under LGSP through adopting a more holistic approach to fiscal decentralization is pertinent.

Continued efforts to improve fiscal decentralization and local financial management under LGSP II
and the inclusion of local government finance issues in the recently developed PFMRP Phase IV
(May 2012) are important next steps in this process.




                                                   44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The draft ICR was circulated for comments to Development Partners. No comments were
received. There are no Co-financers.




                                        45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Independent Procurement Review and Value for Money Audit of Contracts Implemented by Local
Government Authorities under the Local Government Development Grant System. FYs 2007-2011.
June 2012. Prepared by Upimac, at the request of PMO-RALG.

Evaluation of LGSP Support from the Local Government Development Grant System (Component 1
and 3). Reference LGSP/PE/26/10. Prepared by DEFE Consult in association with the Urban
Institute, for PMO-RALG.

Supervision Mission Aide Memoires (all) from the first on March 11, 2002 for Preparation; to the
MTR on Jan 14, 2008, to the final on January 25, 2010 for Implementation Support.

Implementation Status and Results Report (all 15) from Sequence 1 (04/26/2005) to Sequence 15.

PRELIMINARY DRAFT: From the Ground Up; An Impact Evaluation of the Community
Infrastructure Program in Dar es Salaam, Aidan Coville, World Bank and Yu-hsuan Su, World
Bank/University of Washington. Nov, 2012.

CIUP Stage Report: Community Environmental Management Plan, July 2004.UCLAS & DHV
Consultants.

Local Government Support Project Revenue Enhancement: Draft Final Report, Sept 17, 2004, by
Robbert Faber.

Mid-Term Review of the Local Government Support Project: Component 2; Prepared by NCG,
GHK, and Howard Humphreys, Jan 2, 2008, for PMO-RALG.

Mid-Term Review of the Local Government Support Project (LGSP), Component 1&3, by NCG,
GHK, and Howard Humphreys, Dec 8, 2007.

Mid-Term Review of the Local Government Strengthening Programme (2009-14) Draft Report,
Nov 2012, by the DPG and PMO-RALG.

Impact Evaluation of Infrastructure in Ethiopia and Tanzania: Final Report, by Maximo Torero,
International Food Policy Research Institute.

The Impact of Local Government Reforms in Tanzania 1998-2008. By Per Tidemand and Jamal
Msami. Research on Poverty Alleviation. 2010.




                                              46
Annex 10. Summary Community Infrastructure Upgrading Program Impact
Evaluation

Summary
The World Bank makes substantial investments in slum upgrading projects around the world, with
the broad objectives of alleviating poverty, improving health and well-being and strengthening the
social fabric and economic opportunities within these communities in a holistic and integrated
manner. While the intrinsic value of improved living conditions is clear, policymakers can benefit
from understanding more precisely which dimensions and to what degree upgrading programs can
influence livelihoods when setting policies to promote social and economic development.

Rigorous research is beginning to emerge on the effects of slum upgrading on important
health outcomes like diarrhea and acute respiratory illness (ARI) and crowding in private
investments; however very little is known about the broader impacts of the upgrading process
that serve to motivate these interventions in the first place. Isolating the causal impact of
upgrading programs presents a challenge. Simply identifying a strong correlation between an
intervention and an outcome of interest does not necessarily imply that the program caused the
observed change in outcomes. The reason for this is clear in the case of informal settlement
upgrading projects. By doing a simple “before and after? analysis, measuring the beneficiary
outcomes at baseline and then during a follow up after the intervention has been implemented, any
change observed in the outcome could be the result of any number of external factors that may have
influenced these individuals during the period between baseline and follow up. To measure the true
impact of the CIUP we need to identify a counterfactual or “control? group of households having
not received the program that proxies for what the upgraded, or “treated? households would have
been like in the absence of the program. The more plausible the control group is for comparison, the
more plausible any impacts measured using this control group as a basis are. Since the choice of
upgrading sites has both practical and political motivations, finding a control group that mimics
these selection criteria is critical for generating plausible impact results. As a gold standard,
randomized controlled trials (RCTs) ensure comparability between control and treatment groups by
randomly selecting who receives treatment (the intervention) and who does not. However, these are
often infeasible for upgrading projects for practical implementation reasons in which case
alternative “quasi-experimental? methods need to be used. A recent Cochrane review (2013) 22
identified 5 rigorous slum upgrading evaluations globally with no clear consensus on the results,
highlighting the importance of research such as this to help fill an important knowledge gap as well
as feeding into improved project design.

This impact study uses a quasi-experimental approach to evaluating the Community
Infrastructure Upgrading Programme (CIUP) financed by the World Bank with the aim of
improving the lives of slum dwellers in Dar Es Salaam through targeted investments in
community infrastructure such as roads, drainage systems and streetlights. The study makes
use of a point system used by the Dar Es Salaam City Council to identify and allocate CIUP
interventions to mitaa (sub-wards) in the city and matches the 31 mitaa selected for upgrading with
a comparable control group of 12 mitaa receiving the same scores but not being offered the


22
  Turley, R, Saith, R, Bhan, N, Rehfuess, E, Carter, B (2013) “Slum upgrading strategies involving physical environment
and infrastructure interventions and their effects on health and socio-economic outcomes?, Cochrane Review




                                                           47
intervention. A baseline survey of 1860 households in control and treatment mitaa was conducted in
2006, upgrading began in 2007 and the follow up survey was completed in 2012.

Stakeholder focus groups were held to contextualize preliminary quantitative results. A group
of 26 participants convened for a working session in Dar Es Salaam on 28 January 2013 to engage
on the preliminary results. The session included partners from the Dar City Council, National
Bureau of Statistics, implementing engineers, local universities and NGOs and the World Bank.
The focus groups gathered information on (i) potential explanations for seemingly anomalous
results; (ii) suggestions for the inclusion of impact measures that had not been covered in the
original set of results; and (iii) ways in which the work could feed into policy debate and project
design in the future. Results presented in this report reflect these discussions.




     Figure 1: Distribution of surveyed households (Control = Yellow; Treatment = Red)


We find that the CIUP interventions increased household sizes and decreased out-migration,
halved diarrhea rates for children under 5, and increased female school enrolment rates, but
did not have statistically significant impacts on employment, business operations, income and
expenditure, housing prices, private investment or social cohesion. The rest of this note expands
on these results, but first highlights the limitations of the study to ensure that results are interpreted
appropriately.




                                                   48
Caveats
Although careful identification of suitable control sites for the purpose of comparison and rigorous
econometric methods underlie the results presented, it is important to interpret the results with
consideration for their limitations, including issues related to (i) sample representivity; (ii) the
inherent heterogeneity of the interventions provided to communities and (iii) the validity of the
control group to be used as a comparison from which to estimate impact.

The CIUP was designed as an inclusive, holistic and participatory approach to the upgrading
process in Dar Es Salaam, with the objective of providing important public infrastructure to
unplanned settlements lacking these facilities. A total of 31 mitaa were supported through the
program providing (i) paving of trunk roads, (ii) footpaths; (iii) public toilets; (iv) drainage systems;
(v) streetlights; (vi) pedestrian crossings; (vii) upgraded water kiosks and (viii) solid waste
containers. Community meetings were held on a regular basis from the project inception until
completion, with the particular focus of eliciting local female participation in the decision process
of upgrading priorities.

The results presented reflect the outcomes identified in this program, but should not
necessarily be seen as outcomes to be expected for in situ upgrading programs more broadly.
It is important to note that the program primarily focuses on public infrastructure, and does not
cover interventions commonly found in other in situ upgrading programs. In particular, land titling,
water and sanitation provision, and social development programs were mostly absent from the
CIUP. The program also makes provision for variations in the package of interventions provided
based on the community needs. As such, although all treatment mitaa participated in the CIUP, how
each mitaa (or household) benefited could vary considerably across the intervention areas.

The results reflect only the surveyed mitaa, and are not representative of Dar Es Salaam.
Enumerator Areas (EAs) were randomly selected from within mitaa, but mitaa were selected
purposefully based on where the CIUP interventions were taking place and which control mitaa
best resembled these groups. As such, inferences should not be made about other mitaa in Dar Es
Salaam that were not part of the study.

High migration rates and an inability to track the same households over time means that
results should be interpreted as changes to communities and not changes to households.
Various regression models have been included in the analysis in an attempt to disentangle
improvements in location (through selective in-migration) vs. improvements for original dwellers.
The large migration over the 6 years (over one third of households) and the selective migration
(higher migration rates in control areas) make these analyses challenging. However, results are still
generated in many cases for (i) overall change in community characteristics; (ii) in-migrant
characteristics; and (iii) non-migrants, or original residents to provide a comprehensive overview.
This summary report reports on (i) only, whereas a more comprehensive paper to be published at a
later stage will include (ii) and (iii).

On the validity of the control group, a careful selection process identified comparison mitaa
that were as similar as possible to treatment mitaa; however some baseline differences across
groups should be kept in mind when interpreting results. The GoT initially considered all 310
unplanned settlements across the 3 districts in Dar Es Salaam. Scores between 23 and 33 were
provided to each area, and mitaa were then deemed eligible for upgrading if they reached a score of
30 or more. This reduced the number of eligible mitaa to 63. A restriction was placed on the
selection of eligible mitaa to ensure that 300Ha were to be upgraded in each of the three districts,
with a total of 900Ha, and any mitaa falling below 10Ha in size would be combined with a
neighboring mitaa to be considered for upgrading to benefit from economies of scale. The selection


                                                   49
process generated 31 mitaa that were chosen for participation in the CIUP. These clear selection
criteria ensured that the process was transparent and void of potential political interference. The
process also helped to identify candidate mitaa to be considered as control group comparisons for
the purposes of the evaluation. Since a rigorous ranking system was conducted, all mitaa meeting
the same ranking criteria were likely to be similar across a range of measures, and households
within these mitaa were likely to be following the same growth trajectory. Baseline results,
however, showed some important differences between the two groups before any intervention took
place that should be kept in mind when interpreting the results.

For the treatment/control baseline comparison, we find that household demographics,
housing ownership, income and wealth, school enrollment, access to services and dwelling
characteristics were similar across the groups in 2006; however, employment, health and
length of residence differed significantly. The typical household had 3.8 household members,
with a 39 year old household head having 8 years of education and a 75% chance of being a male.
On average, 0.9 children per household were enrolled in school. Employment, while very high, was
slightly lower in the treatment area, with 87% of household heads employed compared to 91% in
the treatment area (most of whom were “self-employed?). Household monthly income hovered
between 140 000 and 150 000 TZS (approximately $100) which is not significantly different across
groups. Treatment households had stayed in their dwellings for slightly more than two years longer
than control households and were more likely to have paying tenants on their property, although the
proportion of households owning their dwelling was indistinguishably different across groups, at
around 38%. Ownership of individual assets differed across groups but not systematically,
providing no strong indication that one group had a broader asset base than the other. Health
outcomes measured at baseline suffered from poor data quality, which makes it difficult to use this
information; however, the available data indicate that diarrhea rates were lower for treatment
households, while the incidence of acute respiratory illness was the same across groups at baseline.
Services and infrastructure across groups in 2006 was relatively similar, with 45% – 48% of
households having electricity connections and walking 5 – 6 minutes to access their primary water
source. Housing structures did not resemble the corrugated iron shacks usually synonymous with
unplanned settlements, and 94% of households had a cement floor and 97% of dwellings had walls
made of brick or cement. Dwellings in the control area were, however, slightly bigger, with an
average of 2.7 rooms, compared to 2.4 rooms in the treatment area.

Results

Extensive physical infrastructure was provided in treatment mitaa, together with community
outreach meetings reaching nearly 10 000 women. A total of 65 community events reaching out
to 15 827 people in CIUP wards were held to ensure full community participation in the upgrading
process. The project aimed to have at least 50% female participants at these events, and records
show that this outreach was effective in achieving a 58% female participation ratio. The project
completed 40km of two-way roads, 58km of one-way roads, 26km of footpaths, 132km of road side
drains, 8.6km of trunk drains and 26km of footpaths. A further 548 culverts, 3153 pedestrian
crossings, 83 solid waste containers and 2780 street lights were provided during the upgrading
process. The provision of public toilets was minimal, with a total of 24 being provided across the
entire upgraded area.




                                                50
Table 1: Completed CIUP activities based on project monitoring data

                                          Total        Phase 2   Phase 1

 TWO WAY ROADS                 Km         40.3         14.9      25.5
 ONE WAY ROADS                 Km         57.8         33.9      23.9
 FOOTPATHS                     Km         26.3         10.7      15.6
 ROAD SIDE DRAINS              Km         132.5        63.6      69.0
 CULVERTS                      Lines      548          319       229
 PEDESTRIAN
 CROSSING                      Number     3153         1020      2133
 DRIFTS                        Number     564          166       398
 SOLID WASTE
 CONTAINERS                    Number     83           35        48
 STREET LIGHTS                 Number     2780         1630      1150
 PUBLIC TOILETS                Number     24           17        7
 TRUNK DRAINS                  Km         8.6          3         5.6

Treatment mitaa experienced significantly more upgrading activity than control mitaa during
the CIUP intervention period, but only in CIUP-related interventions. We find no difference
between control and treatment areas in health, schooling, sewerage, electricity, or land
regularization programs. Since none of these were part of the CIUP package of intervention, this
serves only to confirm that other interventions are unlikely to confound our results (i.e. other
programs were equally distributed across control and treatment areas). We do, however, see strong,
positive impacts in self-reported knowledge of community interventions taking place directly
related to CIUP, such as toilets, garbage collection, internal roads, water drainage and street lights.
Responses on “water supply? provide no differential between control and treatment areas; however,
we explore this further by breaking water supply into: (i) piped water; (ii) yard tap; and (iii) water
kiosks. As expected with the CIUP interventions, a significant increase in upgrading support to
water kiosks is observed. Interestingly, however, control households report having received
upgrading to their piped water supply that was not provided in treatment areas.

This upgrading translated into better access to infrastructure for the average household.
Distance to a water supply decreases significantly to 1.5 minutes (from 3 minutes currently in
control), and toilets from 13 to just under 4 minutes. Households report streetlights being available
on their roads up from 2% in the control area to 46% in the treatment area, reducing time to reach a
street light from 15.5 minutes to 3 minutes. Access to water drainage directly outside dwellings
increased from 14% to 37% and time to point decreased from 7.5 minutes to 1 minute. Finally,
households indicating that the access road to their dwelling was “somewhat improved? jumped
from 7% to 48%. Garbage collection systems were already relatively high in the control area at
71%; however household access to a collection system increased further to 91% through CIUP.
Other community facilities such as schools and health clinics saw a slight reduction in time taken to
reach location, but this is insignificant. Ostensibly, this may result from the improved pathways and
roads leading to a reduction in time reaching a facility even when new facilities have not been
included in the CIUP intervention, and, as we have seen previously, any potential confounding
health and education interventions had not been implemented differentially across treatment and
control areas. The graph presents these results, with a red star indicating that the result is
statistically significant.



                                                  51
Although large infrastructure investment resulted in increased access for households, the
sustainability of this infrastructure poses a challenge. Of the households that reported having
streetlights on their street outside their home, 48% of these people reported that the lights were not
working. Similarly, 29% of households reported their drainage systems as not in working order.
However, garbage collection activities (94%) and community roads (98%) were mostly seen as
functioning in the way they were expected to. This raises important questions about the
sustainability of community infrastructure and the need for ongoing support from local government
moving forward. Sustainability of these interventions must be borne in mind when interpreting
reported impacts.

The impact of improved infrastructure on flooding is ambiguous and complicated by the
recent extreme flooding in Dar Es Salaam in December 2011. The endline survey was conducted
from April to June 2012. The worst flooding in Dar Es Salaam in 50 years was experienced in Dec
2011, with informal settlements particularly affected. Since flooding is an inherently geographic
shock, the comparison groups (in other locations in the city) should be considered with care. Data
from the surveys indicate that treatment mitaa were more susceptible to flooding, with 22% of
    Figure 2: Time taken to reach faciliy
                   18
                   16
                   14

                              * *
         Minutes




                   12
                   10
                    8



                                              *
                    6
                    4                                                                 CIUP
                    2                                                                 Control
                    0


                        *
households having reported have their home flooded in the past 12 months compared to 18% in the
control areas. Given that large improvements in drainage systems were recorded, the result seemed
inconsistent and became a core part of the focus group discussion held in January 2013 to identify
potential reasons for this. It was found that the 2011 floods had placed such a strain on bulk
infrastructure that some of the bulk drainage systems (not part of CIUP) burst, releasing substantial
flooding into a few select mitaa. Without providing information to Government officials about the
outliers identified in the data, these officials were requested to submit a list of mitaa that were, by
their records, affected directly by this bulk infrastructure flooding. A list of 5 mitaa was provided
and analysis was conducted with and without these mitaa. It was found that, indeed, 31% of
households in the identified “outlier? mitaa reported having a flooding incident compared to 18% in
the rest of the study mitaa. When removing these outliers, control and treatment wards report
identical levels of flooding (18%). While, overall, the amount of flooding in treatment areas is
higher than in controls there are two considerations to make: (1) Despite the extensive flooding, the
proportion of households in the treatment area reporting that they experienced flooding in the past
12 months remains at 22% in 2006 and 2012; and (2) Although no reductions were found in the
likelihood of being flooded, the severity of flooding in CIUP mitaa was mitigated. We find that



                                                  52
69% of households experiencing flooding in control areas needed to make repairs, while this
reduced to 58% of households in treatment areas. Households reporting flooding as a major
problem also decreases slightly from 57% in the control area to 52% in the treatment area.

Household sizes increase as a result of the upgrading process. Household size increases
significantly more in treatment areas over time (from 3.8 to 5.13 people per household, compared to
an increase from 3.84 to 3.97 people in the control areas). When restricting the analysis to non-
migrants in the cross-sectional analysis, the impact is even larger, indicating that this is not just a
result of larger in-migrant households, but a choice of original residents in the treatment area to
expand their households. This is most likely a combination of life cycle differences (treatment
households tend to have lived in the area for longer and are slightly older). If purely to do with
treatment households being older (and thus more likely to have children), we would expect the
result to fall away when controlling for age of household head. When controlling for age and length
of tenure, results reduce slightly but persist, suggesting that other channels such as potential pull
factors bringing more household members to upgraded areas may be driving the observations.
When breaking down the demographic shift in household size due to the increase, we see that,
while the proportion of households with a spouse present does not change between treatment and
control areas, the number of “relatives? increases by 55% and the number of children (of the
household head) increases by 33%, which substantiates the possibility that other family members
(rather than tenants being mis-interpreted as being part of the household) are joining the household
and this is not all driven by increases in the nuclear family that would be the case if this was a pure
“life cycle? result.

Dwelling owners increase the likelihood of renting out rooms to tenants, while renters pay
equivalent amounts for accommodation in treatment and control areas. Resident dwelling
owners rent out at least one of their rooms 68% of the time in the treatment group compared to 48%
in the control group highlighting the potential for households to leverage on the community
upgrading to increase rental income opportunities. However, rental prices are similar across groups
(27500 TZS per month in control areas compared to 29200 TZS in treatment areas) and total rental
income per month for treatment households is not significantly different from control households.




                                                                *


Increased private investment in the form of housing renovations and upgrades is restricted to
toilet improvements. Although there is a slight increase in the total amount of investment for
upgrading the household’s dwelling over the past 6 years (up from 290 000 to 360 000 TZS – a
difference of approximately $50), this is not statistically significant, the overall investment amount



                                                  53
is low, and the measurement is noisy, making it difficult to obtain more precise estimates. There is
very little difference across groups on the probability of conducting any particular upgrading
activity (eg. plastering, extensions, upgrading building material, etc.); however there is a significant
increase in the likelihood that a household has upgraded their toilet in the last 6 years (from 10% in
the control group to 18% in the treatment group), which is driven almost entirely by original
residents rather than in-migrants, which could be explained by a number of possible channels.
Firstly, there is some evidence of a limited sanitation marketing campaign that formed part of the
CIUP intervention, and community meetings held to discuss CIUP interventions often focused on
the importance of sanitation and hygiene, although based on evidence of similar interventions, it
seems unlikely that the full impact could be expected to come through these interventions. It is
possible, rather, that some of this impact is driven by the household size increase experienced in
intervention areas, increasing the need for toilet facilities. However, this assertion cannot be
verified using the available data.

Employment rates and business entrepreneurship does not deviate from high values at
baseline. Employment is high in both groups at close to 90%, with treatment employment rates
slightly (but not significantly) lower. The majority of people are self-employed with their own
business. Although there are substantially more people running businesses in the treatment areas
(57%) relative to control areas (44%), this difference was present at baseline, indicating no change
between the two groups over time. Average yearly household income of 3 660 000 TZS (about
$2500) and expenditure (both actual and per capita) also remain indistinguishable across groups.

Both control and treatment areas have thriving business activity and similar diversity in
businesses; however the data available cannot assess whether there is a differential in-
migration of business activity in treatment areas. We are restricted to measuring economic
activity in terms of employment, entrepreneurship, rental income opportunities and private
investment. This neglects the potential increase in business creation and migration into treatment
areas resulting from improved public infrastructure. Without a business sample/census the best
information available comes from community questionnaires answered by key informants in each
of the mitaa which provide evidence of multiple business types in both control and treatment areas,
but does not record differences in quantity.

 70%

 60%

 50%

 40%
                                                                           CIUP
 30%                                                                       Control

 20%

 10%

  0%
                    Before                         After

Figure 4: Percentage of households running at least one business



                                                  54
Children experience large reductions in diarrhea and acute respiratory illness (ARI) but no
impact is found for adults (19 and older). Focusing on the two main sicknesses associated with
slums, we find an overall decrease in diarrhea and ARI incidence in the treatment area. This result,
however, masks the distributional impact of the CIUP on health. Breaking the results down by age,
we observe that, consistent with the literature, there is a much stronger impact on children under 5.
Diarrhea almost halves, from 22% to 12%, and ARI incidence in the past 12 months drops from
27% to 18%. These illnesses are also more severe and last longer in control areas. When restricting
the analysis to include only non-migrant households (implying that the child would have spent their
entire life in the settlement if they stayed with the family from birth), the impacts increase even
further with diarrhea rates reduced by 16 percentage points and ARI reduced by 11 percentage
points. This result is in line with similar literature with regard to the distributional impact on
children; however the size of the effect is substantial, especially considering the limited effect the
upgrading had on, for instance, flooding. We identify that there was a difference in diarrhea rates

45% 5: 12 month morbidity rates by age group
Figure

40%
35%                                    *
30%
                                                                              *
25%
20%
           * *                                                                             CIUP
15%
                                                                                           Control
10%
 5%
 0%
         Diarrhea         ARI         Other     Diarrhea        ARI        Other
                                      illness                              illness
                     children <5                            adults >18
between children at baseline (with CIUP wards being somewhat better off); however, while the
baseline survey did collect health information, the measures are not directly comparable to the
endline survey and a direct difference-in-difference estimation cannot be performed. As such, it is
expected that these results be seen as an upper bound for health impacts.

School enrolment increases, with the largest impact found for school-aged girls older than 13.

We find that the CIUP interventions are associated with an overall increase in student (age 6 – 18)
school enrolment from 85% to 89%. Exploring further, the results show that all of the impact is
driven by increased enrolment in the treatment group for girls, while there is no impact on boys’
enrolment. We further break the analysis down by age and find no impact on children aged 6 – 12
(primary school education is compulsory in Tanzania). The cohort driving the observed impact are
girls aged 13 – 16. 13 – 16 year old girls in the control group have a 79% enrolment rate compared
to 93% for the same-aged girls in our treatment group. No such difference is seen for boys, where
both control and treatment boys have a 93% enrolment rate. An impact is still observed for older
children (aged 17 – 19), but this is slightly lower and only borderline significant. In this cohort,
control group girls have a 62% enrolment rate compared to a 74% enrolment rate for girls in the


                                                 55
treatment group. Figure 6 highlights the stark contrast between control group females and the rest
of the cohort.
            100.0%


             90.0%


             80.0%
                                                                                     Boys in T (89%)

             70.0%                                                                   Boys in C (89.3%)
                                                                                     Girls in T (86.4%)
             60.0%                                                                   Girls in C (80.5%)

             50.0%


             40.0%
                          6     7-8    9-10 11-12 13-14 15-16 17-18
                              Figure 6: School enrolment by age and gender

The large improvement in school enrolment was discussed in detail in the January 2013 stakeholder
focus group. Although striking, a number of plausible reasons for this improvement were discussed:
    1. Improved security, as a result of streetlights, footpaths, etc, make it safer for children to go
        to school. This would affect female adolescents more than their male counterparts
        especially when considering crimes related to sexual harassment, especially prevalent in
        slum areas.
    2. Improved health has been shown to improve female school participation rates where health
        and schooling are complements, while increasing labor force participation for males, where
        improved health increases strength, and thus attractiveness in the (manual) labor market23.
    3. Increased female decision-making power has been shown in the literature to increase
        household resources directed to children. Improved female empowerment, resulting from
        the continuous community engagement events focusing particularly on involving females
        in the decision making process may translate into increased decision power in the
        household by females and more emphasis on schooling (especially for girls).
    4. An increase in the household size resulting in changing household member roles reduces
        the burden and opportunity costs for females (who are often the ones required to tend to
        household chores), making schooling relatively more attractive.

We then ran tests to confirm or reject these hypotheses. For improved security, we find no
correlation between the household’s perception of safety in the settlement and the likelihood that a
child is enrolled in school. Similarly, we find no differential correlation between health and


23Pitt, M. M., Rosenzweig, M. R., & Hassan, N. (2010). Human capital investment and the gender division of labor in a
brawn-based economy. Economic Growth Ctr Yale.




                                                         56
schooling across gender. It is not possible to directly test a relationship between the community
meetings and female empowerment, however, a commonly identified result in the literature shows
that increased female decision making in the household leads to a reduction in expenditure on
cigarettes and tobacco and an increase in expenditure on schooling. We find consistency in the data
– treatment households are 3 percentage points less likely to spend money on cigarettes and tobacco
and 11 percentage points more likely to spend money on monthly schooling costs. While far from
identifying a rigorous causal relationship, the results support a message that improved female
empowerment induced through the community engagement may play a part in reducing high school
drop out for girls.

The “household size – enrolment? relationship, however, provides the strongest evidence of a
potential causal pathway. We see a strong relationship between the number of children in the
household and whether girls are enrolled in school. Accounting for the treatment group status, and
overall household size, each extra child in the household is associated with a 2.5 percentage point
increase in the likelihood that a girl child attends school; however, the number of children in the
household has no relationship with boys’ enrolment. Taking this further, we find that over 50% of
children that are not enrolled in school cite work as the reason for leaving school. This is even more
common for females (55%) than males24. Restricting our analysis only to females that have dropped
out of school, we find a borderline significant increase in the control group by 18 percentage points
in selecting “work? as the reason for leaving school. This substantiates an argument that an increase
in household size (induced by the upgrading) influences female school enrolment rather than male
enrolment, ostensibly because of the change in opportunity costs, releasing time for females (who
are the most likely to be required to help with housework, etc.) to attend school.

The upgrading process keeps social interactions intact, but does not measurably improve
social cohesion. The study focuses on revealed rather than stated preferences by asking questions
that relate to direct actions within the community. At the first level, we would like to see if people
are aware of community activities such as volunteer programs, neighborhood security groups and
organized sports clubs, for instance. We then assess whether any change in awareness of
community activities is accompanied with actual participation. We also explore neighbor dynamics
by finding out how much people rely on (and help) their neighbors on a range of day-to-day
activities such as child care, transport and job search. The results indicate no systematic significant
differences across groups in any of these measures. Since the alternative to in situ upgrading
usually includes household relocation that is associated with the breaking down of social and
economic networks, the fact that this upgrading does not disturb the social fabric is, in itself, an
important finding. However, in situ upgrading is often motivated for with the assumption that these
programs will improve social cohesion in the community, which does not seem to be the case in
this context.

Recommendations and Conclusion
This report presents a unique opportunity to fill an important knowledge gap on slum
upgrading interventions. With only a handful of rigorous evaluations done on slum upgrading
activities (none of these on World Bank projects that we are aware of), and the importance of
finding ways to improve slum conditions in a rapidly urbanizing world, this evaluation offers
insights into a broad range of impacts that similar community infrastructure upgrading projects may
expect.



24
     Note that “work? in this context has combined both paid and house work.



                                                  57
Despite a focus on rigor and quality, a number of caveats to the study need to be carefully
included in any interpretation of the findings. With some important differences between
treatment and control group at baseline, and an inability to track households migrating out of the
study wards, the control group as an effective comparison for analysis can be called into question.
The bias of any results is unknown, but various robustness checks, and a focus on the theory of
change, combined with an ex-post qualitative review to contextualize any seemingly anomalous
results helps to provide justification (and skepticism) when it is due.

Strong results in access to infrastructure, household sizes, health, and increased rentals show
that, even with community infrastructure interventions that do not include the full range of
standard upgrading activities can still have an important impact on communities. Although it
included a comprehensive community engagement component, the project was void of any specific
social/health/education/titling programs that are commonly included in similar programs. We see
no change in social cohesion in these communities, and perhaps this is to be expected given the
context; but important impacts, such as reduced diarrhea, increased household sizes and an increase
in the number of households renting out parts of their house for income increases substantially.

While some intuitive results have been verified through this study, a number of unexpected
results that should feed into further policy discussion have been identified. In particular, the
potential pull factors drawing new household members to the upgraded communities has a number
of knock-on effects that are critical for the policy debate. On the one hand, upgrading planning
needs to account for the potential in-migration that results from the intervention and the implication
this has on the ability for the community infrastructure to provide effectively to these populations.
On the other hand, policymakers need to understand more carefully what a change in household
size might mean for the ways in which households, and household members make decisions. For
instance, the link between household size and school attendance, while tenuous, provides new
insight into ways in which slum upgrading programs may serve the development objectives of a
wider range of stakeholders.

Ex ante impact expectations need to take into consideration baseline levels, and what room for
improvement there is when setting targets. We see no increase in employment rates, (most)
upgrading indicators and households running businesses. This may not be surprising given the high
levels from which the outcomes of interest started at baseline. Employment rates for household
heads were 90% at baseline, while almost all households were made with concrete walls and floors.
This leaves very little room for improvement, with marginal increases becoming harder to achieve
at these high baseline levels. As such, finding no impact in these indicators can be expected.

There is still room for improvement: poor maintenance, low private investment and unclear
economic benefits provide space for reflection on what can be done to achieve these objectives
in future projects. We see that drainage systems and streetlights in particular suffer from
sustainability challenges. Identifying supporting community incentive schemes, for instance, to
overcome collective action problems associated with common goods could be considered to
maximize potential development impacts. The project did not include any tenure security
component. While it cannot be identified here, there is strong evidence that improved tenure
security substantially increases private investment. The results from the study show limited private
investment taking place, calling into question whether the added effort of including such a
component would be justified. Other, incremental tenure options such as the provision of street
addresses for instance, could be included and tested in future programs, identifying ways to
stimulate private investment through improved perception of tenure security while limiting the
complexity of the intervention.


                                                 58
Future research can focus on areas that this study has not been able to address adequately:
namely, spillover effects and migration. It is expected that investments in community
infrastructure in one area are likely to provide potential benefits to neighboring communities,
through improved hygiene, security and economic opportunities that are not necessarily confined to
the treatment area. If neighboring control communities are improved through such spillovers, the
comparison between treatment and comparison groups would underestimate the program impact.
Differential in- and out-migration also changes the households in a treatment community such that,
by tracking only people that remain in the community, we do not get a clear picture of the overall
program impact. Lower-income households could be forced to move out due to increase living costs,
making way for higher-income groups – resulting in a false interpretation about benefits accruing to
households (in this case the community may improve, but at the expense, not for the benefit of, the
household). Alternatively the upgrading scheme may catalyze growth, lifting households out of
poverty traps and opening opportunities to move out of the slum. These two contrasting conclusions
would lead to two very different policy recommendations. This study does not include analysis of
out-migrants and results should thus be interpreted as improvements to the community rather than
to households.

The evaluation results can now be used to stimulate debate and feed into project and policy
design. Dissemination activities will continue, and culminate in a policy note and working paper
that can be used as a step towards filling an important knowledge gap in slum upgrading activities.

Annex 1: Summary of main impacts
Indicator                             Control     Treatment       Impact
Diarrhea (<5)                          12%            22%             10%
Household size                         3.84           5.04             1.2
School enrolment (all)                 85%            89%              4%
School enrolment (girls age 13 -16)    62%            74%             12%
Toilet upgrading                       10%            18%              8%
Renting rooms                          48%            68%             20%


Annex 2: Baseline Comparability
                                                                p-
Variable                              Treatment       Control   value   5% sig
Demographics
Male                                      0.49         0.53     0.00        YES
Age in years                             24.22        23.53     0.08
Enrolled in school                        0.90         0.92     0.24
Male (HHH)                                0.75         0.77     0.26
Age (HHH)                                39.49        38.29     0.06
Household size                            3.80         3.83     0.82
Employment
employed=1                               0.38          0.41     0.03        YES
employed=1 HHH                           0.87          0.91     0.01        YES
                                                      142772
Total household income (TZS)          149739.06         .27     0.52
Total household income (TZS, drop                     128432
>650,000 = top 1%)                    131388.42         .13     0.51
Education
Years of education completed             6.86          6.80     0.72


                                                 59
                                                                p-
Variable                              Treatment       Control   value   5% sig
Years of education completed
(HHH)                                   8.00           8.05     0.81
Age 6 - 12 school enrolment             0.90           0.92     0.24
Age 6 - 12 female school enrolment      0.90           0.94     0.14
Health
Experienced diarrhea in last month      0.02           0.05     0.01        YES
Experienced acute respiratory
illness in last month                   0.05           0.07     0.21


Tenure
Length of time occupying the same
dwelling (years)                        8.70           6.47     0.00        YES
Number of paying tenants                2.46           1.38     0.00        YES
Rental per room per month for                         2855.5
tenants (TZS)                          5860.68          6       0.09
Increase in rent from last year for
tenants (TZS)                           216.82        144.45    0.25
Expected sale price of dwelling       28565960.       191408
(TZS)                                     00           20.00    0.04        YES
                                                      10564.
Total rent (if HH does not own)       10633.08          85      0.97
Increase in HH rent since last year
(TZS)                                  551.50         632.20    0.36
A HH member owns the dwelling           0.38           0.40     0.34
Services and structure
HH has an electricity connection        0.45           0.48     0.32
                                                      9031.4
Monthly electricity charge (TZS)       8686.31          7       0.68
Number of hours per day of
electricity provision                   15.60          14.33    0.01        YES
Number of blackouts per week             3.02           3.03    0.87
Monthly expenditure on water                          6182.9
(TZS)                                  7585.65           2      0.08
Length of time to walk to primary
drinking source                         5.56           5.11     0.15
HH boils water before drinking          0.67           0.68     0.57
HH filters water before drinking        0.51           0.53     0.57
Monthly expenditure on waste
collection                             712.30         504.23    0.00        YES
HH has a telephone                      0.57           0.54     0.20
                                                      9814.8
Monthly telephone charge              10086.94          1       0.77
Dwelling has a brick/cement floor       0.94           0.94     0.90
Dwelling has brick/cement walls         0.97           0.98     0.02        YES
C I.Sheet/wood rood=1                   0.91           0.89     0.06
Number of rooms in HH (excluding
bathroom, garage)                       2.43           2.74     0.01        YES



                                                 60
                                                               p-
Variable                              Treatment      Control   value   5% sig
HH premises have been flooded in
past year                               0.25          0.34     0.00        YES

Time use
Time spent on activity yesterday
(minutes)
Work outside home                      608.18        608.80    0.95
School classes or homework             253.29        300.05    0.59
Grinding grains, cooking and food
shopping                               147.89        126.02    0.00        YES
Doing dishes, laundry, ironing, or
cleaning your house                    146.13        114.20    0.00        YES
Collecting water                        61.48         67.33    0.28
Collecting firewood                     48.17         75.71    0.00        YES
Doing other household chores (child
caring, sick caring)                   156.16        174.14    0.20
Feeding yourself (breakfast, lunch,
dinner), sleeping                      669.73        634.17    0.00        YES
Activities not mentioned before?       212.15        216.81    0.78
Assets
A HH member owns at least one of
the following assets
Radio                                   0.77          0.81     0.02        YES
TV                                      0.33          0.35     0.28
Iron (electric or coal)                 0.46          0.57     0.00        YES
Stove                                   0.90          0.94     0.01        YES
Fan                                     0.34          0.39     0.05
Sofa                                    0.22          0.23     0.88
Table                                   0.86          0.84     0.49
Chairs                                  0.73          0.78     0.02        YES
Beds                                    0.98          0.95     0.01        YES
Bicycle                                 0.10          0.07     0.17
Motorcycle/scooter                      0.00          0.01     0.26
Car or truck                            0.02          0.03     0.18
Cart                                    0.04          0.04     0.64
Pack animals                            0.00          0.00     0.39
Sewing machine                          0.10          0.06     0.01        YES
Loom                                    0.01          0.01     0.12
Tools                                   0.12          0.05     0.00        YES
Urban land (Hectares)                   0.08          0.12     0.01        YES
Rural land (Hectares)                   0.16          0.08     0.00        YES
Crime
HH burglary in last 6 months            0.07          0.07     0.66
At least one HH member was a
victim of theft in last 6 months        0.17          0.19     0.13




                                                61
