             Document of
          The World Bank




                                            Report No: 33634

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-Q1950 TF-27773 TF-25595 IDA-33240)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.9 MILLION

                TO THE

       REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

          FOR A PROJECT ON

       PRIMARY HEALTH CARE




           September 27, 2005

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 13, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Tajikistan Somoni
                                           3.04 = US$ 1
                                         US$ 1 = SDR 1

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB   Asian Development Bank                       MOH         Ministry of Health
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                  N/A         Not applicable
CIS   Commonwealth of Independent States           PAD         Project Appraisal Document
CMSI  Republican Center for Medical Statistics     PHC         Primary Health Care
      and Information
CRH   Central Rayon Hospital                       PIU         Project Implementation Unit
CTC   Clinical Training Center                     RHC         Rural Health Center
FM    Family Medicine                              SDC         Swiss Agency for Development
                                                               and Cooperation
GAVI  Global Alliance for Vaccines and             SES         Sanitary Epidemiological Services
      Immunization
GOT   Government of Tajikistan                     SIL         Specific Investment Loan
HMIS  Health Management Information System         TA          Technical Assistance
ICB   International Competitive Bidding            TIPEMP      Tajik Institute for Postgraduate
                                                               Education of Medical Personnel
ICD-  International Classification of Disorders,   TSMU        Tajik State Medical University
10    10th Edition
KPI   Key Performance Indicator                    TTL         Task Team Leader
LIL   Learning and Innovation Loan                 UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
MH    Medical House                                USAID       United States Agency for
                                                               International Development
MIS   Management Information System                WB          World Bank
MOF   Ministry of Finance                          WHO         World Health Organization



                                Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                             Country Director:    Dennis de Tray
                               Sector Director:   Charles Griffin
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Peyvand Khaleghian

                                        TAJIKISTAN
                                Primary Health Care Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P049894                                                        Project Name: Primary Health Care Project
Team Leader: Peyvand Khaleghian                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                         Report Date: September 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                         Name: Primary Health Care Project                              L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1950; TF-27773;
                                                                                                       TF-25595; IDA-33240
    Country/Department: TAJIKISTAN                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                       Region

          Sector/subsector: Health (87%); Central government administration (11%);
                                    Compulsory health finance (2%)
                        Theme: Health system performance (P); Other communicable diseases (S);
                                    Child health (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                       Original             Revised/Actual
             PCD: 11/02/1998                                          Effective: 08/25/2000            08/25/2000
        Appraisal: 08/31/1999                                             MTR: 06/02/2002              06/02/2002
        Approval: 03/07/2000                                          Closing: 03/31/2004              03/31/2005



      Borrower/Implementing Agency:               GOVT. OF TAJIKISTAN/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                            Other Partners:

STAFF                                   Current                                      At Appraisal
Vice President:                         Shigeo Katsu                                 Johannes Linn
Country Director:                       Dennis N. de Tray                            Kazuko Ogawa
Sector Director:                        Charles C. Griffin                           Annette Dixon
Team Leader at ICR:                     Peyvand Khaleghian*
ICR Primary Author:                     Peyvand Khaleghian and Natalya
                                        Beisenova


* For six months prior to Project closing.
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                  Outcome:        S
                            Sustainability:       L
   Institutional Development Impact:              SU
                    Bank Performance:             S
              Borrower Performance:               S


                                                            QAG (if available)             ICR
                                          Quality at Entry: S                              S
                           Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original Project Development Objective was to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of health
services in the Republic of Tajikistan through expansion of primary health care and through modeling and
implementing an efficient health financing system. The project was consistent with CAS objectives on
poverty alleviation and improving service delivery. It was, however, a complex project with a heavy focus
on institutional reform in addition to traditional activities such as training, civil works and procurement of
medical equipment. The number and range of activities was also high for a first project in a low-capacity
setting such as Tajikistan, though in retrospect this appears not to have been problematic since most
activities were accomplished as originally planned.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project included the following four components:

Component 1: Primary Health Care Development and Training (US$0.93 million total estimated cost)
included: (i) the development, in collaboration with medical colleges and universities, of Primary Health
Care (PHC) retraining programs for family physicians and other health professionals; (ii) the development
of specific disease management protocols and treatment guidelines for the prevalent diseases representing a
significant share of the total burden of disease; (iii) the production of teaching materials; (iv) the
development of the National Health Sector Human Resources Training Plan; (v) carrying out a needs
assessment and the development of standards for PHC services; .(vi) upgrading teaching facilities; and (vii)
retraining of physicians and medical personnel.

Component 2: Health Facilities Rationalization and Development (US$3.42 million total estimated cost)
included the following sub-components:

Health Services Planning/Restructuring sub-component included: (i) the development of PHC facility
plans in pilot regions covering appropriate levels of facility and catchment population for each level,
services offered at each level of facility, and equipment, supplies and drugs required to provide these
services; (ii) the implementation of a Public Information Strategy to increase acceptance of PHC approach
to health service delivery among the general public; (iii) the development of a Labor Adjustment Strategy to
provide alternative employment, training opportunities or severance payments to staff displaced as a result
of rationalization; and (iv) the implementation of follow-up household and provider surveys to examine
project-generated changes and evaluations of project activities.

Pilot Region Infrastructure Developmentsub-component, included: (i) the refurbishment of 84 health
facilities in the pilot regions, (ii) the improvement of emergency services through provision of a minimal
level of ambulances and, possibly, radio-communication equipment; (iii) the provision of 84 PHC facilities
with equipment, supplies and pharmaceuticals; and (iv) strengthening of the vaccination program through
the establishment of an efficient cold chain.

Component 3: Health Care Financing: Population-based Funding (US$0.40 million total estimated
cost) included: (i) the development and testing of capitation-based model of health care funding in the pilot
regions through the provision of appropriate legal and administrative framework, (ii) the identification and
costing of primary care services, and (iii) the development of an implementation plan to move the funding



                                                      - 2 -

of primary care services to a population-based approach.

Component 4: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$1.18 million total estimated cost)
included: (i) the professional development of central- and local level staff through training in management
methods, epidemiology, and cost control; (ii) the establishment of a health management information system
and development of MIS training program; and (iii) project management by the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), including procurement, disbursement, maintenance of consolidated project accounts,
appropriate financial management of credit funds.

3.4 Revised Components:
No formal revisions were done; however, there were several reallocations of funds from component to
component and a number of project activities were dropped or not financed from the credit. These included
household and provider surveys to evaluate project-generated changes and a US$200,000 package of
medical equipment for PHC facilities in Varzob and Dangara, both of which were eventually financed by
the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory

This project did not benefit from a formal QAE review. However, this ICR assesses quality at entry, on
balance, as satisfactory. The project was consistent with the CAS and consistent with the government's
priorities and plans. It covered areas that were critical to the government's immediate plans but also
contributed to longer-term capacity development and policy reform. Political commitment to the activities
was high and no major policy reversals occurred during implementation, highlighting the effectivene
analysis of sector issues at the time of Project design. That said, the Project design underestimated the
political, technical and logistical complexity of reaching agreements in a post-conflict environment with
very scarce resources for policy analysis and development. It also underestimated the time needed to build
adequate project management structures and processes.           Although formally classified as a Standard
Investment Loan (SIL), the Project had many characteristics of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL).
About 58 percent of loan funds at appraisal were allocated to civil works, goods, pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies, but these investments were contingent on the development of a complex regulatory
framework for the new health care system. A number of major strategic documents--e.g. the National
Immunization Strategy, Rationalization Plan, Strategy for Health Care Financing and HMIS model--had
to be developed by the project and approved by the Government of Tajikistan before physical investments
could be started. The amount of time needed to produce this intellectual underpinning of reforms was
underestimated at appraisal. This led to an almost two-year lag in implementation. Legal covenants
included inter alia development of a joint MOH-UNICEF strategy to implement a national immunization
program by July 31, 2000; development of Health Financing Strategy with a population-based funding
mechanism by August 15, 2000, and implementation by January 1, 2001; and development of a detailed
plan to automate the management and statistical responsibilities and functions of MOH by June 30, 2000.
The reality of implementation, however, was that substantial energy and resources were eventually required
to meet these requirements, and this in turn delayed implementation of activities targeting service delivery
improvements directly. As a result, it is hard to know at the time of writing the extent to which these
activities--i.e. those focused directly on service delivery, such as the upgrading of PHC facilities in Varzob
and Dangara--have had their intended impact, though anecdotal and what available evidence exists
suggests that their impact has indeed been positive.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:



                                                      - 3 -

The project's achievement of its objectives is considered Satisfactory. Despite early delays, the Project,
succeeded in upgrading PHC services in two rayons, Varzob and Dangara, and retraining the full
complement of health staff in these rayons in a new family medicine curriculum. As a result of this project,
the range of services provided in these two rayons was expanded, with improved access to the population.
The project also developed and introduced the primary care information system which is bound to improve
efficiency in PHC administration. It also helped to increase user and provider satisfaction as measured by
post-project surveys in both rayons.      With the support provided by this project a common re-training
curriculum for PHC providers in Tajikistan was developed and adopted nationally, including at both
undergraduate and postgraduate levels. MOH capacity for carrying out large-scale retraining efforts was
strengthened, a set of basic clinical practice guidelines was developed as a first step toward the introduction
of evidence-based medicine in Tajikistan, and a joint MOH-UNICEF immunization strategy was developed.
In the area of health financing, the project catalyzed and helped to support a long-term multi-sectoral
dialogue on health financing reform that led, eventually, to the adoption of a joint MOH-MOF Health
Financing Strategy that has become a guide to health reform efforts in Tajikistan, and to the introduction of
payment reforms in PHC and hospitals, a constitutional amendment legalizing user charges, and the
delineation of a Basic Benefit Package for Tajikistan.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Primary Health Care Development and Training (US$0.74 million actual total cost, of
which US$0.72 million was from the Credit). This component funded international and local consultancy
services, civil works, equipment, production of training materials, and students' stipends. The component is
rated Satisfactory.

Six Clinical Training Centers (CTC) were established under the project: CTC of Tajik State Medical
University (TSMU) in Polyclinic 9; CTC of Tajik Institute for Postgraduate Education of Medical
Personnel (TIPEMP) in Polyclinic 8; CTC of Republican Center of Family Medicine; Family Medicine
Clinic 1; Model Medical House of Dushanbe Medical College; and Training Center for Trainers in Family
Medicine in Polyclinic 8. All CTCs were renovated and equipped with clinical medical equipment procured
through UNICEF. In addition, a Training Center and a Family Practice at the Central Rayon Hospital in
both pilot regions were refurbished and equipped. 1600 textbooks and manuals in Family Practice were
procured and distributed to the retrained physicians, medical libraries and all CTCs. Clinical Guidelines
were also used in the training process.

The project supported professional development of teaching staff and development of PHC curriculum at
undergraduate and postgraduate level. In June 2000, a study tour on "Development of training programs on
family medicine" to London and Tartu was organized for three trainers from TSMU, four trainers from
TIPEMP and one trainer from the Dushanbe Medical College. In 2001, a working group including
representatives of MOH, PIU, the staffs of TSMU and TIPEMP, and the WHO-funded Somoni project,
assisted by consultants from the Tartu University, Estonia, developed new curricula for (i) undergraduate
medical studies, (ii) master's degree programs, (iii) a retraining program for practicing physicians, and (iv)
a retraining program for nurses. All four curricula were adopted by MOH in May 2001 and introduced in
the training process in TSMU and TIPEMP starting September 2001. Unfortunately, however, in 2005 the
possibility of separating undergraduate and postgraduate training of doctors, re-establishing the
Soviet-style undergraduate training of pediatricians, was again raised. If implemented, this move would go
against best practice recommendations by international professional associations and the patterns in most
European countries.

The project comprehensively upgraded staff knowledge and skills in the two pilot rayons. In total, during
the lifetime of the project, 54 physicians and 178 nurses from Dangara and Varzob rayons were retrained.



                                                      - 4 -

This represents an almost 100 percent coverage of existing medical personnel in the pilot rayons.
Retraining was done under a six-month training course which combined lectures and practical skill
development sessions.      In addition, TIPEMP was helped to provide for continuous training and
self-education of medical staff. To support this activity, the project also supplied modern family practice
literature to the rayons. Several students from Dangara and Varzob rayons were enrolled in the
undergraduate training program in Family Medicine in TSMU.                An institutional underpinning for
continuous medical education was created through the establishment of a Coordination Council of Experts
for Medical Education under MOH with assistance from SDC-funded Project Sino. As a result of a survey
among retrained Family physicians in Varzob and Dangara, conducted by Project Sino in
November-December 2003, three more training modules have been developed on Reproductive Health,
Assistance to Children and Assistance to Newborns. These were based on physicians' assessment of
strength and weaknesses of received training and their practical needs.           To further strengthen the
sustainability of this mechanism, WHO trained two groups of researchers located in Varzob and Dangara
to carry out similar surveys on an ongoing basis.

The component also financed development of Disease Management Protocols and Treatment Guidelines. A
Working Group comprising Chief Specialists of MOH, National Pharmaceutical Group of WHO, staff of
the Somoni Project and family physicians, with assistance from the PIU and an international consultant,
developed disease management protocols and treatment guidelines for the 20 most prevalent diseases in
Tajikistan. The project also supported publication of these Protocols and Guidelines and their distribution
to the family doctors in pilot rayons. Subsequently, with cooperation from other donors, the Working
Group developed 16 additional disease management protocols.              A manual consisting of 36 disease
management protocols and treatment guidelines was published and is being now widely used throughout
Tajikistan by practicing family physicians and medical educational institutions.

Component 2: Health Facilities Rationalization and Development (US$3.57 million actual total cost of
which US$3.35 million was from the Credit). This component financed international and local consultancy
services, civil works, provision of medical equipment and supplies. The component is rated Satisfactory.

The development of an agreed health services Rationalization Plan, as envisaged by the project design,
proved to be a much more difficult and controversial task than expected. In October and November 2000
the PIU, an international consultant and the WHO-supported Somoni health reform group attempted to
develop a Rationalization Plan for PHC facilities in the two pilot rayons. The first draft was not accepted
by the Bank as it did not comply with the requirements for Rationalization Plan in the Legal and project
documents. Specifically, the Plan was not based on an assessment of population's demand for medical
services at each level of the health care system. Subsequently, development of a Rationalization Plan was
included in the Health Care Financing System technical assistance package, and international consultants
were recruited in January 2001 to undertake both tasks. A comprehensive rationalization plan covering
rationalization of physical, human and financial resources, indicating facilities to be closed or refurbished
as well as proposed staffing norms and facilities standards, were finalized and approved by MOH in
January 2003, and project implementation agreements with Varzob and Dangara rayons were signed
specifying their respective roles and responsibilities under the project.

At the onset of the project it was envisaged that 84 PHC facilities would be rehabilitated and provided with
equipment, supplies and pharmaceuticals. After the closer examination of this issue in the Rationalization
Plan it became evident that existing facilities were in such a desolate state that achievement of proper
standards through refurbishment was not feasible. Detailed calculations performed by the consultant with
due considerations for accessibility, catchment populations, disease incidence and future operating costs,
demonstrated that 26 Rural Health Centers (RHCs) would fall within the project budget and would be


                                                      - 5 -

sufficient to satisfy the demand for PHC services in the two pilot regions.

During the mid-term review an alternative option of procuring pre-fabricated cottages to be assembled
on-site was considered but was eventually rejected in favor of a more conventional on-site construction
through local works contracts. While costs per square meter for both options was about the same (US$274
vs. US$272) for pre-fabricated vs. locally-constructed facilities, procurement of pre-fabricated facilities
would required International Competitive Bidding procedures and would have taken between 22 and 27
months. The local construction option, implemented through the National Shopping procedure, allowed for
complication of the process in 13 to 20 months. Since GOT was also interested in creating additional
employment opportunities locally and helping develop the national construction industry, the second option
was chosen. Completing the civil works at all 25 sites by the Project Closing Date of March 31, 2005 was
a very challenging task but was carried out successfully by MOH and the PIU. The construction of one
site was picked up by CARE International. All 26 sites were supplied with basic medical equipment,
furniture, oil heaters and fans. Twenty sites which host Cold Chain immunization equipment (18 RHCs
and two SES stations) were also supplied with power generators to secure the preservation of vaccines.
The unit cost of construction exceeded substantially the original estimates and additional funds were
reallocated from the equipment category. Medical equipment packages were downsized but still found
adequate by MOH for the provision of basic medical services at the PHC level in accordance with agreed
standards. Funding of medical equipment for all 26 sites was picked up by SDC. Due to the shortage of
credit funds, provision of pharmaceuticals was dropped.         In accordance with Emergency Health Care
Strategy Report, a part of the Rationalization Plan, RHCs were also supplied with sanitary vehicles and
radio-communication equipment.

The National Immunization Strategy was completed later than expected at the design stage but benefited
from broad engagement of Government with all relevant international partners active in this area. In July
2001, Project-financed consultants presented a methodology for planning the delivery of immunization
services. An Immunization Survey was completed in November 2002 and was supposed to undergo the
review by MOH and key donors shortly after that. However, the process was delayed due to difficulties in
reaching consensus among key stakeholders. Eventually the National Immunization Program was approved
by GOT in April 2003. A joint national immunization review by MOH, WHO, UNICEF and WB
specialists took place in November 2003 and their final report was approved in March 2004. The report
concluded that under the current staffing and budgetary constraints, MOH and Republican Center for
Immunoprophylaxis should focus on a selected number of priority activities to improve the quality and
effectiveness of immunization rather than engage in too many activities. It recommended adoption of a
National Immunization Program aimed at elimination of six basic infectious diseases controlled by
immunization--diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, measles, and TB--and achievement of a
WHO-stated goal of immunization of 95 percent of children under one year of age. Due to the mostly
mountainous landscape of the country (93 percent), the new Immunization Strategy supported a delivery
model based on a combination of stationary and outreach services delivered by the mobile teams located
within City, Rayon and Rural Health Centers, and Centers for Immunoprophylaxis. It was also decided to
relocate Cold Chain Equipment up from Medical Houses to the Rural Health Centers, mainly because it
was easier to preserve vaccines and monitor vaccination in a handful of RHCs rather than in multiple and
remote MHs. In accordance with the Immunization Strategy cold chain equipment was provided to nine
RHCs in Varzob, nine RHCs in Dangara, and two SES stations in each rayon.                  In August 2004,
construction of a warehouse for the storage of vaccines at the Republican Center for Immunoprophylaxis
was completed. The project also provided two sanitary vehicles to SES in Kurgan-Tube and Kuliab rayons
in Khatlon oblast (outside of project's pilot area) to support the National Immunization Strategy's objective
of using mobile teams to improve coverage in this regions.




                                                      - 6 -

To further support implementation of the new program, 64 new Immunization Centers have been
established throughout the country at the central, city and rayon hospitals.          Until 2004, funds for
immunizations were not allocated in the budget, and vaccination was carried out predominantly with the
donor-provided vaccines. An earmarked allocation for the procurement of vaccines was, however, made in
2004 and 2005 budgets, reflecting heightened political commitment to vaccination. The project also
assisted in finalizing GOT application to GAVI for introduction of the new vaccines and strengthening of
immunization services.

Component 3: Health Care Financing: Population-based Funding (US$0.32 million actual total cost of
which US$0.04 million was from the Credit). This component funded consultancy services and training.
The component is rated ModeratelySatisfactory.

More than half the project implementation period had elapsed before a Health Financing Study was
completed in June 2003 and a consultant recruited to help develop detailed implementation guidelines and a
draft regulatory framework to support introduction of a new financing system. To strengthen local policy
capacity in this area, in June 2003 ten participants from Tajikistan--drawn from the President's
Administration, MOH, MOF, health and finance officials from the pilot regions, and the PIU­attended the
health economics and finance training program in Health Economics Center in Vilnius, Lithuania.

An Interdepartmental Task Force comprising representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Economy and
Trade, Labor and Social Protection, Antimonopoly Agency, Heads of Health Departments of Oblasts and
Dushanbe city, created by MOH in July 2003, developed the "Strategy on Health Financing Reform in
Tajikistan 2005-2015". Development of the Strategy took considerably longer than originally envisaged;
the original Project design included a Legal Covenant that called for implementation of the Strategy to start
in January 2001, whereas in practice it took until March 2005 for the strategy to be developed and receive
joint approval from MOH and MOF, though implementation of selected provisions had indeed begun
earlier. The Strategy called for development of a State Guaranteed Package of Medical Services, increased
budgetary allocations for the health care system, introduction of capitation-based funding for PHC,
consolidation of health care budgets at the oblast level and introduction of a new performance-based
provider payment system. In addition, radical changes in the regulatory framework underpinning health
care system were called for. A country-wide referendum conducted in June 2003 supported modifications to
Article 38 of Tajik Constitution to legitimize co-payments for medical services. Following all the required
procedural formalities, corresponding changes to the Law "On Protection of People's Health" were finally
approved by the Government in December 2004. This allowed MOH to distinguish a "State Guaranteed
Package" of Medical Services from a list of "additional medical services," the former to be fully financed
by the budget and the latter to be fully or partially paid by the patient. The State Guaranteed Package was
slated for piloting in Dangara and Varzob in the second half of 2004. Implementation of both packages in
Dangara and Varzob rayons started in July 2004 (initially planned in February 2004). MOH had also
planned to start capitation-based allocation of funding in pilot rayons in January 2005, but this decision has
been held up pending MOF review following a reportedly less-than-satisfactory pilot in the education
sector.

Preliminary results of the survey conducted jointly with the "Project Sino" in December 2004 revealed that
there was improved access by disadvantaged groups to services included in the State Guaranteed package.
The survey also demonstrated the feasibility of further rolling out the State Guaranteed Package throughout
the country.

Component 4: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$1.45 million actual total cost of which
US$1.35 million was from the Credit). This component financed consultancy services, procurement of


                                                      - 7 -

office equipment, training, and operational project management expenditures. The component is rated
Satisfactory.

Professional development of central and local level staff through training in management methods,
epidemiology, and cost control. With assistance from international consultants, a health care management
training program was designed and implemented at the national level and in two pilot rayons. The
consultant developed a one-week training module and trained 25 persons at the national level during
September 23-27, 2002. 15 chief doctors from Varzob and 25 from Dangara were also trained during
September 2002. To create local training capacity in February 2003, seven trainers were sent for training
in TIPEMP. It was expected that the local trainers would continue to conduct management training
courses for the staff from other regions.

Establishment of a health management information system and an HMIS training program. In October
2000, a plan for introducing a new Health Management Information System (HMIS) was developed by PIU
specialists jointly with an international consultant, and was approved by the Republican Center for Medical
Statistics and Information. A series of roundtables were held in February 2001 in Dangara and Varzob for
chief physicians of CRHs, their deputies and other staff responsible for medical statistics, and heads of
PHC facilities in pilot regions to discuss the strategy for the development of an informational system. The
HMIS System of Linked Databases was developed under the project with assistance from international
consultants. The HMIS is based on WHO ICD-10 classification, as introduced throughout the country in
2002. The data from the System of Linked Databases can be exported into Excel, Microsoft Access or
SQL, and used to generate new reports or perform various analysis of PHC performance. Fifteen forms
(birth and death registration, vaccination recording, family planning, out-patient and in-patient visits, etc.)
and accompanying manuals (including reduced ICD-10 manual covering 2000 diseases prevalent in pilot
rayons) were developed to facilitate collection of primary information at the PHC level. Forms are filled
out at the level of Medical Houses and Rural Health Centers and submitted manually to the Central Rayon
Hospital, where data is inputted into the HMIS and automatically checked for obvious mistakes. The
system generates 4 Health Management Reports to monitor (i) Disease incidence, (ii) Number of Visits,
(iii) Medical House Report; and (iv) Rural Health Center Report. Reports provide operational information
and are presented to PHC personnel at monthly operational meetings in the Central Rayon Hospital.

The Central Rayon Hospitals of Varzob and Dangara, as well as the Republican Center for Medical
Statistics and Information (CMSI) in Dushanbe and the Department of Medical Statistics in Khatlon oblast
were equipped with computers, office equipment and HMIS software. PHC facilities in pilot rayons were
provided with some basic office supplies, journals, and ICD-10 manuals. All prospective users of HMIS
received basic training. In the fall of 2001, 26 persons were trained in basic computer skills, including
relevant staff from MOH, pilot rayons, and CTCs. In 2002 PIU conducted training workshops for PHC
personnel in pilot rayons, and CRH and CMSI staff in data entry, analysis, and operations with the System
of Linked Databases.

PIU experts also supported development of the National Medical Statistics Database by the Republican
Center for Medical Statistics and Information from 2002 to 2004. The database is now used in the pilot
regions. A final evaluation workshop was held by the PIU in May 2003 attended by representatives of
health facilities in pilot rayons, including 60 participants from Dangara and 40 from Varzob. Progress was
evaluated and deemed satisfactory. In July 2004, SDC-funded "Project Sino" undertook an evaluation to
determine the efficiency of the HMIS model among PHC personnel in both pilot rayons. The results
confirmed that personnel involved in registration had the necessary skills, that collection and registration of
data was done in accordance with developed regulations, and that coverage and the level of data detail were
optimal for management requirements. However, it also found that financial and economic data were not


                                                       - 8 -

being covered, due to the fact that in the existing health management system this data is not utilized at the
PHC level. The majority of respondents (75 percent) did not find filling out the journals to be laborious,
confirming that filling out the forms takes about 20 percent of staff time--one of the Key Performance
Indicators under the project--and 90 percent of respondents found the forms efficient and agreed to use
them in the future. It was also confirmed that statistical calculations and other manipulations with the data
are performed correctly and the resulting data is capable of effective use. Finally, functional expansion of
HMIS model was deemed possible in order to develop new managerial indicators and reports. Currently,
the Republican Center for Medical Statistics and Information plans to integrate the PHC-oriented HMIS
developed under the project with HMIS covering in-patient tier developed by USAID and National
Database of Medical Statistics currently utilized by CMSI. These are expected to be scaled up under the
successor Bank-financed project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project is rated as substantial. The Project was instrumental in
orienting the health sector to focus on PHC, and in supporting tangible improvements in PHC--not only by
financing civil works but also through training, by developing clinical practice guidelines and by providing
basic medical and radio communication equipment. All this helped to maintain the focus on PHC and to
illustrate to policy makers, health and non-health alike, the importance of focusing on PHC as opposed to
hospital care. The PHC focus of Tajikistan's recently-developed basic benefit package can be traced in
part to the influence of the Project and to the concurrent policy dialogue undertaken by the Bank team,
including through the publication of the Tajikistan Health Sector Note in 2004. Specifically, the Project
contributed to the development of a unified training and re-training curriculum for family medicine in
Tajikistan; catalyzed, directly and indirectly, the development of an agreed multi-sectoral Health Financing
Strategy, and in turn influenced significant reforms in health financing including the constitutional
amendment to allow user charges, high-level agreement on provider payment reforms and the development
of Tajikistan's new Basic Benefit Package; and, through careful attention to cost and quality in civil works,
established a credible model for PHC facilities that is planned to be replicated elsewhere in Tajikistan, not
only by the Bank but also by other donors working in PHC. For a small but ambitious Project that covered
a wide range of areas, these achievements are significant although it should go without saying that they
speak equally to the commitment of the Ministry of Health and of other donors as to Project itself.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project started at a time when the Tajikistan construction market was in its infancy and costs were
poorly understood.      For this reason, the Bank team's original estimates of construction costs were
substantially lower than proved to be the case during implementation. This, along with the fact that
facilities were in such poor condition that rehabilitation had to be abandoned in favor of ground-up
reconstruction, led to a substantial reduction in the number of facilities which were finally rehabilitated.
This could not have been foreseen by the PIU or the government and is not uncommon in first-project
circumstances, particularly in early transition countries or those just coming out of conflict, where markets
are poorly developed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:



                                                      - 9 -

While the final outcome of the Project was positive, the lack of early progress on financing reforms might
to some extent have been mitigated by more high-level attention to financing issues. Subsequent experience
with the Health Finance Working Group--an inter-ministerial, inter-disciplinary group established to write
the Health Finance Strategy and achieve consensus between MOH and MOF on the direction of financing
reforms--bears witness to the kind of progress that can be achieved as a result of high-level attention from
key policymakers. In this case, involvement of senior MOH and MOF staff as working group members
and the personal interest of their respective Ministers created an environment in which consensus was
reached and results from various pilot efforts were absorbed and consolidated in a single policy statement.
Had similar attention been paid to rationalization efforts, the rationalization plan might have had greater
impact that was eventually obtained, though one might also speculate that resistance to planned
rationalization is an inherent factor in health reform and could not have been expected to succeed in the
absence of concurrent reforms to the incentive system and provider payment methods. Moves are afoot to
address these issues and should be a focus of future Bank operations in the sector.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU was active and consistently well-staffed throughout the Project. Relationships with other partners
were generally good, although information-sharing was initially constrained by inaccurate perceptions of
possible disapproval from the Bank and, in part, by the rigidities of Tajikistan's public administrative
culture.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As described in Section 3.4, not all originally-envisaged Project activities were carried out within the
envelope estimated at appraisal, due in large part to errors in the Bank's calculation of the cost of civil
works. Additional funds from SDC mitigated the consequences of this by financing a large package of
medical equipment, originally to have been financed by the Project, for PHC facilities reconstructed by the
Project in Dangara and Varzob rayons. Thanks to the large number of preconditions set by the Bank prior
to the commencement of civil works, as described in Section 3.5, the Project had to be extended once, by
one year. Remarkably for a first Project--and for the complexity and complications of the activities
carried out--the Project closed fully disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely.

This was a complex project that included a wide range of activities. GOT made tremendous efforts to
utilize, internalize and build on these activities. Multiple working groups on different areas of health
reform were created by GOT and MOH and their outputs were quickly incorporated into the routine
operations of the health sector. Utilization of credit funds, in that sense, quite efficient, as almost all TA
provided under the project resulted in major policy changes in various areas of health reform. The one area
of concern vis-à-vis sustainability is the HMIS. Sustainability of the HMIS system is undermined by the
low salaries of data entry workers: less than 10 dollars equivalent. The recent resignation of the data entry
operator in Dangara rayon resulted in significant data gaps, though Project Sino recently completed
training of two new operators in Dangara and one in Varzob. Another problem is the lack of forms for
data entry at the PHC level. Both CRHs were equipped with copying machines, and the deputy chief
physician in both rayons was made personally responsible for the timely provision of paper and cartridges.
However, more fundamental remedies are required, including an increase in non-salary recurrent
expenditure on PHC as recently approved by MOH.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



                                                    - 10 -

Family Medicine reforms supported by the Project were, together with similar activities financed by other
donors, adopted as a general matter of government policy late in Project implementation and have received
considerable high-level political support since, notwithstanding continued suspicion on the part of policy
conservatives in the sector. There is now a unified curriculum and training model for family medicine
training--an accomplishment reached in early 2005--and Presidential addresses have emphasized the need
to continue the family medicine training process to cover the entire country. The joint MOH-UNICEF
immunization strategy developed with Project support continues to guide immunization efforts, though the
micro-planning focus appears not to have been strongly retained except in UNICEF's own pilot rayons.
The Project's emphasis on a PHC-centered health system has also won support, not only from MOH but
also MOF, which has increased PHC budgets annually for the past several years and been an active
participant in development of the Health Financing Strategy and subsequent efforts to identify and cost a
Basic Benefit Package for Tajikistan. Pilot reforms in Varzob and Dangara--carried out in collaboration
with SDC-funded Project Sino and the USAID-funded ZdravPlus Project--have created a model for
financing and training reforms in PHC and are proposed to be scaled up in Sughd and Khatlon in the next
phase of reform implementation, covering 50 percent of the population of Tajikistan from 2006 to 2010.
The same is true of the PHC MIS developed under the Project, which is slated for review and scaling up
under the forthcoming Community Based Health Project. Investments in civil works and equipment have
now become part of the routine health delivery system in Varzob and Dangara and are being financed
directly from the budget.       While concerns remain about the budget's ability to provide sufficient
maintenance funds for these facilities, and while this will inevitably have an impact on the maintenance of
these facilities in the medium term, these lessons have been taken into account by MOH in planning future
PHC investments and were mitigated to some extent by the methods of construction and the selection of
appropriate equipment for these facilities. "Brain drain" is also a concern, though addressing this issue
would have required instruments beyond the scope of the present Project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, Project design was appropriate to the circumstances and focused on the right issues for Tajikistan.
Preparation was carried out in reasonable time and with close involvement of MOH and the nascent PIU: a
worthwhile accomplishment given the sector's lack of previous experience with this kind of donor-financed
but government-implemented project. Project design was, however, overly complicated, and a number of
assumptions at preparation stage proved to be inaccurate during implementation.              The PAD was
well-written, clearly laid out the sector issues, project background and rationale for Bank involvement, and
served as a useful basis for operational planning by the PIU.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory

In general supervision was carried out smoothly, though frequent changes in Team Leadership were
problematic and led, invariably, to inefficiencies on both the Bank and government sides. In the five years
of preparation and implementation there were five TTLs, including a final change six months prior to
Project closing. Aide mémoires were comprehensive and detailed and the relationship between the Bank
and the MOH, including the PIU, was strong throughout. The Bank complemented its supervision with a
flagship piece of sector work, the Tajikistan Health Sector Note, and discussed the findings of this
note--which was prepared in collaboration with a number of other agencies, including the Aga Khan
Foundation--in a health conference in Dushanbe in 2004. This added impetus to reforms already under


                                                      - 11 -

way, including those in health financing and family medicine training that had been supported by the
Project, and laid the way for design of the second health operation--the Community and Basic Health
Project--that is currently under preparation.    The Bank also showed considerable flexibility in the
allocation of resources and, thanks to partner agencies including SDC, was able to meet the Project's
Development Objective in spite of miscalculations during preparation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory and is witnessed by the ongoing strong health dialogue
between the Bank and GOT, including the government's agreement to include health policy and financing
issues in current and planned Development Policy Operations.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory

The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as Satisfactory on account of the government's
strong ownership of the program, its involvement in preparation activities and its commitment--later
attenuated but now resurgent--on a comprehensive approach to health sector reform and to the activities
planned under the Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory

The Government's implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory. While progress on financing
reforms may have been more rapid if MOH had focused on this issue with greater vigor in the early years
of Project implementation, this may have been an unrealistic expectation given the lack of capacity at the
time and the novelty of the reforms being proposed. Subsequent efforts, particularly in the later years of
project implementation, compensated for the sluggishness of performance in early years and have laid a
strong foundation for ongoing reforms in health policy and financing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory

Performance of the PIU is rated as Highly Satisfactory. All internal and external audits of the PIU's
performance were unqualified, and the PIU responded flexibly and efficiently to changing circumstances
during Project implementation, including the instruction to partner and share premises with SDC-financed
Project Sino, the need to adjust procurement and civil works to constrained finances occasioned by
higher-than-expected construction costs, the need to coordinate procurement and Project management with
other partners including UNICEF and SDC, and the need to oversee a complex Project in a difficult
implementation environment while maintaining fiduciary integrity. On civil works, a recent comparison of
health sector constructions carried out by different donor-financed Projects gave the PHCP PIU a high
rating for cost-efficiency and quality. This is especially impressive given the scattered distribution and
remoteness of the facilities constructed under PHCP and the difficulty of completing a far-flung set of
facility constructions on time and at reasonable cost. It should be noted that delays in implementing civil
works were not a function of indolence on the PIU's part but rather of the wide array of up-front conditions
attached to Bank financing for these activities, as described earlier. The PIU's involvement in policy
dialogue was limited--a function perhaps of its extensive supervisory responsibilities for investment


                                                   - 12 -

activities--but not inappropriately so, given the implementation focus of the PIU and the involvement of
multiple other agencies in health policy dialogue.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

Performance of the Government of Tajikistan as a whole is rated as Satisfactory. MOF took an active
interest in not only Project implementation but also the reform process as a whole, and it was an active
member of the Health Finance Working Group that developed the Health Finance Strategy. The President's
Administration also took a keen interest in reform issues, including a number of them in Presidential
Addresses as a way of underscoring their importance.

8. Lessons Learned

Choice of instrument. This was, for all intents and purposes, a Learning and Innovation Loan and should
have been recorded as such. The distinction may not have been of much operational significance vis-à-vis
Project content and processing but could have substantially conditioned the Bank's and the government's
attitudes to the Project, both in terms of a "learning by doing" approach and, more importantly, in
allocating additional resources for--and giving greater emphasis to--Project evaluation.

Institutional reform in countries like Tajikistan is not easy. This seems self-evident but seems to have
been underestimated in Project design and not adjusted at mid-term. Tajikistan in 1999 had several
characteristics that should have signaled the difficulty of supporting complex institutional reforms. It was,
and is, a fragile LICUS country, had recently emerged from a prolonged period of civil conflict, had
inherited the Soviet Union's complex regulatory and budget system and possessed insufficient
administrative capacity, having been a producer state of the former Soviet Union. In this context the
Project's expectations in terms of regulatory and institutional reform were excessive; it is, for example,
difficult to move to a new health financing model in any country--especially a move from input- to
output-based budgeting--but far more so in a country with inherited budget systems, administrative
cultures and social expectations firmly entrenched in the status quo and where other sectors of the
government and the economy have yet to begin the process of reform.

Extensive supervision by the Bank should be anticipated and planned for countries with weak
institutional capacity. Aside from the need to be modest about expectations vis-à-vis institutional reform,
and in this case perhaps to have limited the number of front-loaded institutional reform requirements in the
Project, it is also necessary to plan for extensive hand-holding whenever institutional and policy reform are
anticipated. International technical assistance by itself is no solution; consultants come and go, are of
variable quality and are often faced by a MOH that lacks the ability to properly appraise the quality of
their services or their work. The Bank's role in this process is critical. While Bank teams can't--and
shouldn't--replace the Ministry's oversight function, they can play a major part in providing detailed
advice as the process unfolds: something that takes time, resources and sufficient expertise on the Bank
team in question. This was generally done well, though the rationalization plan is an exception and could
perhaps have benefited from more up-front attention from the Bank team in reviewing TORs and
scrutinizing the selection process with greater stringency.       The government's failed first attempt at
developing a rationalization plan--which had important learning dimensions and does not deserve excessive
criticism--might have been avoided if this kind of relationship had been anticipated and planned for in
advance.

Partnerships on substance can be risky. The Project benefited from a number of close partnerships



                                                     - 13 -

during implementation, including with SDC-funded Project Sino and USAID-funded ZdravPlus. Toward
the end of the Project, a core group of donors including SDC, USAID, UNICEF and WHO agreed
informally to work together in policy dialogue on health reform issues: a positive development welcomed by
MOH as an opportunity to bring consistency and coherence to donor coordination. Donor coordination
under other parts of the Project were not, however, always so smooth. While informal collaborations
worked uniformly well, formal collaborations--in this case with SDC-funded Project Sino--were not
always effective. The SDC's willingness to fill the gap when Project funds ran short, and their agreement
to finance US$200,000 worth of medical equipment to make Project-constructed facilities in Dangara and
Varzob operational, was very much appreciated by the Bank and GOT. Similarly, SDC's collaboaration
on financing work under component 3 was successfully carried out. A subsequent agreement, however, to
have Project Sino carry out monitoring and evaluation (M&E) for the Project was not as well executed.
References to the agreement appear in several aide mémoires and seem to have been a matter of common
understanding on the part of the Bank, the PIU and some on-the-ground implementers of Project Sino; but
this view was not shared by the Swiss implementing agency responsible for Project Sino, the Swiss
Tropical Institute in Berne, which felt that it was never specifically detailed what M&E activities were to
be carried out by Project Sino, there was never a joint working session on how the two projects could
jointly move forward on M&E, and there was never a "bi-lateral and joint agreement on the respective roles
and responsibilities in the area of M&E." Based on these perceptions, a few months prior to Project
closure, STI declared that the agreement on M&E activities was never formally concluded and would not
be carried out. This compromised the Bank's ability to evaluate Project activities in time for incorporating
lessons into the successor Project. An agreement was later reached--informally--whereby Project Sino
would help the PIU complete monitoring and evaluation requirements for closure of the Project, though this
appears to have been a matter of goodwill on the part of Project Sino's Dushanbe-based staff rather than a
reversal of STI's original statement in November 2003. What can be learned from this? Two lessons
stand out. The first is that informal collaborations seem to work better than formal ones, at least in places
like Tajikistan where many partners have in-country teams providing day-to-day support to the line
Ministry. These collaborations, including with USAID and UNICEF, were uniformly effective and positive
throughout the Project. The second lesson is that if formal collaborations are to be embarked on, a high
level of clarity and explicitness is required. This approach is not without problems either, especially given
the dynamic context of post-conflict, poor-governance, low-income countries like Tajikistan where policy
reforms seldom progress in a linear way and mid-course adjustments are required more frequently than in
more settled economies, and where up-front agreements, however explicit, will need to be adjusted
frequently during implementation.        Nevertheless, formalizing relationships--i.e. strong, documented
agreements and understandings on who will do what, by when, and under what conditions--would at least
avoid the kind of divisive misunderstandings that arose with regard to M&E in the present Project.

Sharing facilities and staff across multiple Projects is not easy in practice. It was agreed with SDC that
its "Project Sino" and the PHCP PIU would be located in a common facility to promote
information-sharing, collaboration and sharing of overhead costs. This seemed like a good idea in principle
but was not always successful in practice. The reasons are not hard to understand. With two Project
Directors, each accountable to a different institution for different Project objectives and working under
different rules, conflict and disagreement might have been predicted at the outset. Had the two Projects
been properly harmonized and practical issues such as subordination, work-programs, staff pay and staff
sharing arrangements etc. been jointly agreed up-front, this might not have been a problem; but this was not
the case, and in spite of the very best efforts of both Project Directors, structural problems with the
relationship--staff getting paid different amounts for the same responsibilities, ambiguities on roles and
responsibilities, and so on--undermined the arrangement and ended up consuming a great deal of effort on
both sides, including by the two Project financiers, with significant inefficiency. The Projects eventually
found separate accommodations: a move that almost immediately improved their working relationship.


                                                     - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Activities of the World Bank

The observations of Project progress from the World Bank were conducted at the high professional level.
The World Bank team headed by the Task Managers provided invaluable assistance in the process of the
Project implementation though frequent replacement of the Task Managers resulted in the temporary delays
caused by the necessary adaptation of Task Managers to the objectives and problems of the Project. The
activities of the World Bank on the whole are evaluated by the Borrower as satisfactory.

Activities of the Borrower

Preparation. The Project preparation was conducted by the leading specialists of the Central Apparatus of
the Ministry of Health together with local and international consultants hired at the expense of the Japanese
PHRD Grant for the Project preparation as well as under the close collaboration with the Rectors and
Directors of High and Secondary Medical Education Institutions, local Khukumats, and the administration
of the medical facilities in pilot regions.

Within the framework of the Japanese PHRD Grant the following consulting tasks were completed:
1.    Households and Medical Facilities Surveys in pilot districts;
2.    Analysis of the architecture infrastructure of the medical facilities buildings;
3.    PHC medical services delivery study including the level of qualification of the medical personnel;
4.    Analysis of existing Information health system;
5.    Detailed study of the rationalization of each PHC medical facility in pilot districts;
6.    Analysis of functioning of existing cold chain;
7.    Analysis of existing funds allocation in the health sector.

The Activity of the Government on the implementation. The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
committed to the reforms proposed by the Project. The Ministry of Health and the Government of
Tajikistan adopted the larger parts of the proposed normative and legal acts, decrees, instructions and
guidelines for the successful reform introduction. In spite of some delays, in the course of the adoption and
implementation of normative and legal acts which were caused by the big public resonance to the
innovations, all necessary conditions were undertaken both by PCU and ministries and agencies concerned
for the implementation of the Credit Agreement.

Organization responsible for implementation. The Project Coordination Unit on health issues was
established by the Decree issue by the Government No. 99 on March 11, 2000. The PCU put a lot of
efforts to implementation successfully the objectives and tasks, which were assigned to the Project. Thanks
to the close coordination with the Ministry of Health, Government, ministries and agencies involved, all the
tasks were implemented. The activity of the PCU on health issues on the whole is evaluated as satisfactory.

The activity of the Borrower is evaluated as satisfactory.

Lessons Learned




                                                     - 15 -

Factors contributing to Project success. The commitment of the Government to reforms in the sphere of
health and Project goals was high; the institutional capacity of PCU and strong technical capacity of the
Ministry of Health; the succession and coordination of efforts on the technical assistance; prompt
intervention from of the World Bank; attention concentrated at the institutional development within the
context of the health reforms.

Disadvantages/Problems. Limitations of the credit funds affected the Project coverage. Weak coordination
between Donors results in overlapping of the activity and progress changes. Project preparation should be
done in a more thorough and fundamental way, in particular, while setting up the Project objectives.

Project Evaluation. The project is evaluated as satisfactory.

Comments of Partners. The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Tajikistan highly esteems the role of the
World Bank in the health sector reform of the Republic of Tajikistan. Only due to the close cooperation
between the World Bank, Ministry of Health and Project Coordination Unit this Project completely
implemented all the aims and tasks and moreover this project became the model for the other projects.

The Ministry of Health expresses its gratitude to the World Bank for the efforts provided to improve the
health sector status and looks forward to the future fruitful collaboration in this sphere.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information

NA




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
90% of the population in the pilot regions with 90%                                               90%
access to improved quality
primary care services (Data to be updated
following survey to be undertaken in 2004)
60% of the population in the pilot regions        60%                                             59.30%
reporting preventive visits with
health professionals by end of project. [Data
to be updated following survey to be
undertaken at end 2004.]

75% of physicians and primary care nurses         75%                                             91%
using acceptable primary care
approaches and practice guidelines in the
pilot regions by end of project. [Data to be
updated following survey to be undertaken at
end 2004.]

45% of total funding within pilot regions spent 50%                                               29%
on primary care services by end
of project

Ratio of per capita funding between highest       1.5 : 1                                         Note: Gov't Decree on Strategy adopted on
and lowest funding regions to reach                                                               May 10, 2005
1.5:1 by end of project


Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Family Health retraining curricula developed; Physician curricula developed; standards of         6 Family Medicine centers upgraded and
standards of oper. of family HC, essential        oper. of family HC, essential drugs, staffing   functioning as training facilities; 54
drugs, staffing norms developed & adopted;        norms developed & adopted; 5 Family             physicians trained in Family Medicine
5 Family medicine centers upgraded and            Medicine centers upgraded and functioning
functioning as training facilities; 45            as training facilities; 45 physicians trained in
physicians trained in family medicine.            Family Medicine.
Rayon facilities network and standards plan       RP completed in Jan 03 and implementation All activities completed as planned.
developed; 26 rural family health centers         of 26 Rural Health Centers on track;
constructed, furnished, equipped; essential       equipment to be procured by Swiss; medical
drugs distributed to all facilities on per capita furniture, radiocommunication equip.;
basis.                                            generators; all under preparation.
Health financing managers trained in              Strategy adoptionp projected for 3/05           Strategy adopted and currently under
financing strat. & mgmt. skills. Pop.-based                                                       implementation.
funding strat. for pilot regions & method.
developed & implemented in 2 pilot regions
by end of project.
IMPROVED INFORMATION                              Completed.                                      Completed.
SYSTEMS-New health mgmt. info. software
& hardware operational with 100% of MOH
managers trained. Pilot regions successfully
process monthly reports electronically by end
of project [to be evaluated during final survey]
MOH officials are trained to apply new mgmt.                                                      HMIS trng. provided to all family medicine
skills in 2 pilot regions (& elsewhere)                                                           physicians in two raions. Final trng. module
90% of head doctors in 2 pilot raions are                                                         completed in March 2003.
applying effective mngt. skills by end of
project [to be evaluated during final survey]

1 End of project




                                                                       - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                          US$ million   US$ million
I. PrimaryHealth Care Development and Training                 0.93             0.74         79.57
II. Health Facilities Rationalization and Development          3.42             3.57        104.39
III.Health Care Financing System - Population-Based            0.39             0.32         82.05
Funding:
IV.Capacity Building and Project Management                    1.18             1.45        122.88
V. Exchange Rate Losses                                                         0.01

Total Baseline Cost                                            5.92             6.09
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.07             0.01         14.29
 Price Contingencies                                           0.25
                           Total Project Costs                 6.24             6.10
                    Total Financing Required                   6.24             6.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                               0.00          2.38          0.12          0.01        2.51
                                      (0.00)         (2.14)      (0.11)          (0.00)     (2.25)
2. Goods                               0.90          0.00          0.64          0.01        1.55
                                      (0.85)         (0.00)      (0.14)          (0.00)     (0.99)
3. Services                            0.00          0.00          1.19          0.30        1.49
                                      (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.19)          (0.00)     (1.19)
4. Pharmaceuticals and                 0.00          0.00          0.22          0.27        0.49
Medical Supplies
                                      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.22)          (0.00)     (0.22)
5. Operating Costs                     0.00          0.00          0.49          0.06        0.55
                                      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.48)          (0.00)     (0.48)
    Total                              0.90          2.38          2.66          0.65        6.59
                                      (0.85)         (2.14)      (2.14)          (0.00)     (5.13)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                               0.00          2.01         0.11           0.22       2.34
                                      (0.00)        (0.55)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.55)
2. Goods                               0.88          0.00         0.64           0.01       1.53
                                      (0.83)        (0.00)       (0.14)         (0.00)     (0.97)
3. Services                            0.00          0.00         1.18           0.30       1.48



                                                  - 18 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.42)            (0.40)           (0.83)
    4. Pharmaceuticals and                  0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
    Medical Supplies
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.32             0.08              0.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.88               2.01              2.25             0.61              5.75
                                           (0.83)             (0.55)            (0.56)            (0.40)           (2.35)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
I. Primary Health Care          0.96         0.03         0.00        0.72         0.02       0.00       75.0      66.7      0.0
Development and Training
II. Health Facilities           3.19         0.45         0.00        3.35         0.23       0.00       105.0     51.1      0.0
Rationalization and
Development
III. Health Care Financing      0.09         0.00         0.30        0.04                    0.29       44.4      0.0      96.7
System -- Population-Based
Funding
IV. Capacity Building and       1.16         0.06         0.00        1.35         0.10       0.00       116.4    166.7      0.0
Project Management




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              11/02/1998

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              09/13/1999

 Supervision

              09/28/1999                4    TASK LEADER/PROJ.MANAG           S               S
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEM.SPEC
                                             (1); COUNTRY
                                             OFFICE/COORDIN (1)
              03/30/2001                3    TASK LEADER (1); PUBLIC          S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALI (1);
                                             PROJECT COORDINATOR (1)
              06/15/2002                5    TASK LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
                                             PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/15/2002                8    TASK LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             JPA (1); WBI TRAINING (1);
                                             HEALTH PLANNER (1);
                                             IMMUNIZATION SPEC. (1)
              07/19/2003               10    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); JPA (1); HEALTH
                                             PLANNER (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH (1); HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST (1); NUTRITION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COMMUNITY HEALTH (1);
                                             HIV/AIDS (1)
              07/19/2003               11    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             PAS (1); FMS (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH (1); HEALTH
                                             PLANNER (1); COMMUNITY
                                             HEALTH (1); HEALTH



                                              - 21 -

                                             ECONOMIST (1); HEALTH
                                             JPA (1); NUTRITION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
               09/15/2004              5     TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH             S    S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             JPA (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation     Not available

  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                  256
                                                             This includes all
                                                                    upstream
  Supervision                                                            454
  ICR                                                                      15
  Total                                                                  725




                                             - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Republic of Tajikistan: Health Sector Note. Report No: 29858-TJ, World Bank, June 30, 2005.
2. Illness Reporting and Access to Health Care Among the Poor in Tajikistan. Prepared for the World
Bank by Cheryl Cashin, Boston University School of Public Health, April 2004.
3. The Nutrition Situation in Tajikistan. Rae Galloway, World Bank. June 2004.
4. Project Appraisal Document, Tajikistan Primary Health Care. Report No: 19654-TJ, World bank,
February 15, 2000.
5. Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire, June 2002.
6. Bank mission Back-to-office reports and Aide Memoires, 1998-2005
7. Project Status Reports, 2000-2004
8. Project Implementation Plan
9. Project Audit Reports




                                                  - 25 -

- 26 -

