Page  1
June 29, 1999
His Excellency
Anvarsho Muzafarov
Minister of Finance
Dushanbe
Republic of Tajikistan
Re:
Swiss Grant Agreement for the Health Project
Grant No. TF 021818                                     
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate the Association’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by 
Switzerland, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one hundred fifty thousand 
Swiss Francs (CHF 150,0000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Tajikistan (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the 
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ishrat Husain
Country Director, Tajikistan
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Anvasrsho Muzafarov
Minister of Finance
Date:
7/13/99
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant to assist in the preparation of a proposed health 
project, which aims at the rehabilitation and strengthening of primary health care in 
Tajikistan (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(i)
household survey of pilot Raions;
(ii)
survey of health service providers and facilities in the pilot 
Raions;
(iii)
institutional preparation and capacity building within the 
Page  2
Ministry of Health of the Recipient;
(iv)
development of a management information system plan; and
(v)
development of a training plan.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the 
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the 
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999.  
After that date, the Association may, at any time, cancel the remaining balance of the 
Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Association and shall be done according to the Association’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Republic of Tajikistan on the Consultants or any of the 
Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in 
connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association 
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right 
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have 
been suspended.  The Association may also terminate the right of the Recipient to 
receive Grant funds if: (a) the Association has decided, at any time after 
consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Association’s assistance in the financing 
of the Project. 
8.
The Association is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right 
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this 
Agreement.
