Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11967
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2224-BR)
JUNE 11, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Currency Equivalents
1982       US$1         =       CRUZEIRO          Cr$ 179.50
1983       US$1         =       CRUZEIRO          Cr$ 577.00
1984       US$1         =       CRUZEIRO          Cr$1,848.00
1985       US$1         =       CRUZEIRO          Cr$6,200.00
1986       US$1         =       CRUZADO           Cz$  13.66
1987       US$1         =       CRUZADO           Cz$  39.23
1988       US$1         =       CRUZADO           Cz$ 262.01
1989       US$1         =       NEW CRUZADO  NCz$  2.83
Weights and Measures
meter (m)               =       3.28 feet
kilometer (km)          =       0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km) =      0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)            =       10,000 sq meters
or 2.47 acres
Abbreviations
BCB               Banco Central do Brazil (Brazil's Central Bank)
BNDES             Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social (National Economic and
Social Development Bank)
DER               Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem (State Roads Department)
DNER              Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (National Roads Department of the
Federal Government)
GEIPOT            Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes (Brazilian Transport Planning
Agency of the Federal Government)
GOB               Government of Brazil
IBGE              Instituto Brasileiro de Geograffa e Estatfstica (GOB's Census Bureau)
NFRP              National Feeder Roads Program
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PCR               Project Completion Report
PPAR              Project Performance Audit Report
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Brazil
Third Feeder Roads Prolect (Loan 2224-BR)
Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Brazil
- Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR)", prepared by the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office.   The report includes a contribution by the
borrower. The overall quality of the report is adequate, except for the economic
justification.
This was the third Bank loan to Brazil focussed on feeder road
development. Its emphasis was on road improvement and institution building in
the sector. The project, which covered almost all states, was well implemented
under difficult macro-economic conditions. Physical construction targets were
exceeded.   Reporting on project results was deficient and, as a result, no
economic rates of return could be calculated ex-post.
PCR information suggests that project outcome was satisfactory
overall and that institutional development was partial. Project sustainability
is rated as uncertain because road maintenance arrangements remain problematic
in some states, though in others, they are adequate.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2224-BR
Table of Contents
PREFACE  .......................................................    i
EVALUATION SUMIMARY . ........................................... i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..................  1
A.       Project Identity .        ..............................................                                       1
B.    Background .................................................   1
Sector Development Objectives ................................                                        1
Institutional Context  ......................................                                        2
C.       Project Objectives and Description   ...................................   3
D.       Project Components .             ............................................   3
E.       Project Design and Organization  .....................................   4
F.       Project Implementation .              ..........................................   5
G.  Project Results ................................................. 6
H.   Project Sustainability . ............................................ 7
1.   Bank Performance ............................................... 8
J.       Borrower Performance  .               ..........................................   8
K.       Project Relationship .           ............................................   8
L.       Consulting Services ..............................................   8
M.       Project Documentation and Data  .....................................   8
N.  Lessons Learned . .............................................. 9
PART H - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                 ......... 11
A.       Introduction .................................................   11
B.       Project Objectives and Results  .....................................   13
C.   Project Implementation .                 ..........................................  15
D.       Difficulties and Experiences .......................................   16
E.       Comparison with Previous Programs  .................................   17
F.       Performance Evaluation of Co-Financing Institutions  .......................   18
G.       DNER Technical and Financial Support  ...............................   18
H.       Role and Performance of IBRD    ....................................    19
I.       Organization and Performance of Sub-Borrowers ..........................   19
H.    Conclusions ................................................. 21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion



PART m  - STATISnCAL ENFORMATION  ................................                       23
1. Related Bank Loans .23
2. Project Timetable .28
3. Project Implementation .29
4. Loan Disbursements .30
5.  Project Costs and Financing .31
6. Project Results .32
7. Status of Covenants .33
8. Use of Bank Resources .34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2224-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This Project Completion Report (PCR) pertains to the Third Feeder Roads Project in Brazil, for
which a loan in the amount of US$154.0 million equivalent was approved in June 1982. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1989, as planned. The last disbursement was on December 31, 1989. Total
disbursements were US$138.3 million and US$15.7 million was canceled.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division in Country Department
i of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III), and the Borrower, (Part II).
3.    This PCR draws from the following documentation inter-alia: the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
38896-BR); the President's Report (No. P-3418-BR); the Loan Agreement (Ln. 2224-BR); Bank
supervision reports; Borrower's Project Completion Report; progress reports produced by the Borrower
and its consultants, audit reports and Bank project files. The report also reflects discussions with BNDES
staff in Rio de Janeiro and with Bank staff involved in the project in Washington and Mexico City.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2224-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Road transport in Brazil carries 60% of freight and 94% of all passenger traffic. An efficient
road network is therefore essential for Brazil's economy to function. Almost 90% of the 1.4 million
km highway network consists of unpaved feeder roads which give access to state or federal highways.
Considerable economic and social costs can be incurred if the upgrading and maintenance of the
feeder road system is neglected.
2.    The rapid expansion of the primary road network, involving the construction and
improvement of almost 10,000 km of priority highways sustained Bank's active participation in the
Brazilian highway sector between 1964 and 1974. The focus of Bank projects then shifted to highway
maintenance or rehabilitation as well as supporting the construction or improvement of feeder roads,
with a view to promote agricultural and rural development.
3.    Apart from the physical achievements,the Bank's lending objectives in these projects were to
support institutional and policy development as well as to upgrade the planning, design and
implementation of feeder road programs on a decentralized basis. To that effect, procedures were
established in the First and Second Feeder Roads Projects to promote appropriate methodologies for
the preparation of feeder roads projects focussing on the selection of economically justified
investments and the use of design standards adapted to actual traffic needs. Detailed guidelines for
sub-project preparation, evaluation and implementation were laid out in an Operational Manual which
constituted the most important management instrument for these projects.
Project Objectives
4.    Although significant progress, both in physical and institutional terms, was achieved during
the implementation of the First and the Second Feeder Roads Projects, further improvements were
deemed necessary and desirable on a number of issues such as:
*     increasing the pace of physical implementation,
*     consolidating the trend towards appropriate technology for low-volume roads,
*     refining the methodology for sub-project economic evaluation, and
*     strengthening the administration of the feeder road program.
5.    Besides its main objective to support rural development, the Third Feeder Roads Project
aimed at addressing the aforementioned issues and the institutional development of state and municipal
road agencies through: (i) building up a pipeline of feeder road investments commensurate with state
and municipal requirements and implementation capacity; (ii) promoting a multisectoral approach to
feeder road planning and supporting the preparation and implementation of feeder road projects; (iii)
further strengthening the management of the National Feeder Roads Program; and (iv) preparing for a



iii
nation-wide upgrading of the state and municipal maintenance capabilities through setting up adequate
funding mechanisms and disseminating appropriate technologies.
6.    In physical terms, the Third Feeder Roads Project, at appraisal, contemplated the construction
or upgrading of about 8,000 km of roads and 6,712 m of bridges for a total cost of about US$ 500
million over the period 1983 to 1989. Related final engineering, consultant supervision, technical
assistance for advisory services and training of staff to improve the maintenance capability of sub-
borrowers amounted to 8% of total project cost. Institution building measures aimed at improving
procedures for feeder road planning, preparation, and implementation at state and municipal levels
were also included in the project.
Implementation Ex2erience
7.    The project was implemented within the original timeframe, at less than estimated cost, and
with physical results exceeding original targets by more than 20%. Despite Brazil's economic woes
and changes in state governments and staff, the project was implemented expeditiously, due to strong
support at the state and municipal levels. The pace of execution almost tripled the rate achieved in
the two previous projects, reaching approximately 1,500 km per year over an implementation period
of 6.5 years. Significantly higher direct contributions to subproject costs were made by the sub-
borrowers, as compared to initial expectations: total counterpart funds at project completion amounted
to approximately 40% of total project cost while appraisal estimates ranged between 22% and 25%.
Results
8.    Overall, about 9,950 km of roads were built or improved, 70% in the low income states of
the North, Northwest, and Centerwest regions of Brazil. This is 24% more than the appraisal
estimate of about 8,000 km In addition, some 7,391 m of bridges were constructed in the low-
income States of Goias and Mato Groso, compared to an appraisal estimate of 6,712 m. Most of the
roads and bridges constructed under the National Feeder Road Program now form the skeleton of the
decentralized state highway systems. Many of these roads have been subsequently improved to higher
standards because of rapid traffic growth.
9.    Altogether, some 40,000 km of feeder roads and 27,400 m of bridges have been constructed
under the various projects financed by the Bank to support rural development. While these
investments have met only a small proportion of Brazil's sector-wide needs, the National Feeder Road
Program supported by these Bank-funded projects: (i) helped to achieve what is now the backbone of
the State Highway System; (ii) had a positive impact on local or regional development; and (iii)
enhanced the road capacity of states and municipalities to plan and implement road projects.
10.   At closing date, the total cost of the project amounted to US$ 491.2 million, close to the
US$502.3 million appraisal estimate, thereby suggesting good planning, engineering and supervision
performance. At project completion, US$15.7 million was canceled from the loan. This amount
resulted from the lag in monetary correction with respect to local currency devaluation due to
inflation. In terms of geographic distribution, the program served all five major regions of Brazil.
Each region had between 1,500 and 2,500 km built or improved.
11.   As with the First and Second Feeder Roads Projects, ex-post economic analyses for the third
project have not been performed because the necessary data were not furnished by the states. While



iv
the assessment of the economic rate of return was used in the Operational Manual as an important
criterion for the selection and prioritization of subprojects, the agencies and monitoring units failed to
recognize the importance of this criterion for estimating the performance of the completed works.
Nevertheless, ex-post analyses would very likely indicate economic rates of return upwards of the
12% minimum required for subprojects eligibility, for the following reasons:
*     actual unitary construction costs (approximately US$ 50,000 per kIm) were lower than
the average appraisal estimate of US$60,000 per km; and
*     a sample of project roads observed by recent Bank missions showed reasonably good
surface condition after 5 to 7 years of service, and volumes of traffic consistent with
original estimates.
12.   All DERs and municipalities participating in the project have benefitted from the sound road
engineering principles spelled out in the Operational Manual. They acquired improved knowledge and
techniques in identifying, preparing, evaluating and implementing feeder roads projects. The
procedures and systems developed under the prograrn are now being used for the new generation of
State Highway Projects.
Sustainability 
13.   Several factors contributed to the termination of the National Feeder Roads Program at the
end of this project, notably: (i) the 1988 Constitution (with its emphasis on decentralization of
Government revenues and responsibilities) which effectively transferred the responsibility for feeder
roads to state/municipal levels; (ii) the continuing macroeconomic difficulties including the insolvency
of several participating states; and (iii) the change in BNDES' mandate from development assistance
to privatization. The project however, had a positive impact in at least two areas:
*     institutional capacities developed in the states for preparing, evaluating and
implementing feeder road programs, on the basis of appropriate norms, standards and
techniques, remain important assets for the country; and
*     many of the 10,000 km of roads built under the project (particularly the paved roads)
now constitute the core of the state highway systems, which are directly managed and
funded by the states.
14.   The unpaved portion of the program (about 5,800 km) is possibly the area where
sustainability may be at risk. The recent Bank assisted state highway management projects, whose
main objective is to ensure adequate maintenance of the state road networks by further strengthening
state and municipal maintenance capacities will contribute to ensure the sustainability of the
improvements made under the three Bank-supported feeder roads projects.
Bank and Borrower Performance
15.   Bank supervision missions were fielded regularly and a Bank resident engineer was assigned
to the BNDES office in Rio de Janeiro for the first half of project execution. The presence of the
Bank resident engineer helped to provide on-the-spot response to implementation problems as they
arose. BNDES management of the project was generally effective but deteriorated as the country's



v
economic, financial and political difficulties increased. DNER provided the necessary technical
advice to BNDES. State DER performance varied but was generally weaker in the poorer states.
Findings and Lessons
16.   With effective project selection, design, and supervision procedures, a feeder road program
can be successfully implemented with no time and cost overruns. In this respect the Operational
Manual proved to be one of the most important management tools for this project and should become
a standard feature of Bank-funded road projects. Similarly, better technical preparation of sub-
projects, less cumbersome sub-project appraisal and review process by the Bank, as well as improved
management of sub-loans by BNDES resulted in a satisfactory pace of implementation. These
arrangements will be relevant to future Bank-financed road projects.
17.   Greater emphasis needs to be put, in the future, on adequately monitoring project performance
and results, thus enabling ex-post analyses to be carried out to indicate the extent to which the
economic and social objectives were met. Future feeder road programs, in particular, must place
stronger emphasis on maintenance activities and be designed to achieve a suitable balance between the
construction, upgrading and maintenance components.
18.   Although the experience in using a domestic financial intermediary (BNDES), by and large,
proved successful, national level intermediary organizations may not always be the unique and
optimum solution for developing appropriate feeder roads institutions at local level, nor are they able
to provide sustainable maintenance of such investments in view of their almost exclusive commitment
to investment lending. Feeder road planning, subproject selection and prioritization of investments
can be successfully accomplished, on a decentralized basis, by local authorities, and the 1988
Brazilian Constitution with its emphasis on decentralization opens the way for direct collaboration
between the Bank and State road authorities.
19.   Although Municipal Road Consortia were slated to act as key players in the project, they did
not become active in most states, for lack of political support. Difficulties could therefore be
anticipated in lending directly to municipalities and in achieving effective cooperation at local level.
20.   The assignment, during project implementation, of a Bank resident engineer to BNDES
headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, in order to help strengthen management and operational procedures,
proved successful. For complex or innovative projects such assignments may be effective and
justified. Consideration should also be given to transfer project supervision responsibilities to Bank's
field offices for sector or program type operations involving several states or institutions.
21.   In Brazil, it will take several decades to meet the challenge of upgrading the vast tertiary road
network to support rural development. The upgrading and maintenance of the rural road system,
particularly in the northern half of the country, deserves special attention. The State Highway
Management Projects supported by the Bank provide for balanced road investment programs directed
at state roads (the secondary system) as well as betterment and maintenance of rural roads (the tertiary
system). These rural road components constitute a logical extension of the earlier federally-managed
rural road projects (through BNDES) and will go a long way to help meet Brazil's rural road needs.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 2224B&R
PART I - PROJECT REVIEEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name                :      Third Feeder Roads Project
Loan Number                2224-BR
RVP Unit            :      LAC
Country                    Brazil
Sector              :      Transport
Subsector                  Highways
B.  Background
1.1    Brazil's continental dimensions, the country's vast mineral resources and extensive
agricultural hinterland make an efficient transport network a necessary condition for the economy to
function. The highway network comprises about 1.4 million Km of roads, 86% of which consist of
seasonal feeder roads and tracks, mostly unpaved. The feeder roads are under the responsibility of
state and municipal governments, and although they essentially fulfill a local distribution function they
also sometimes give access to state arterial roads and to the main federal highways. Considerable
economic and social costs can be incurred if the upgrading and maintenance of the feeder road system
are neglected.
Sector Development Objectives
1.2    GOB's transport policy has focussed upon roads, which carry 60% of freight and 94% of
passenger traffic. Within the highway sector, the primary federal highway network (of 90,000 kms)
was given priority since the National Highways Department (DNER) was established in 1937. A
National Feeder Roads Program (NFRP) began in 1967. Several regional development programs
have included feeder roads as key components.' Bank financing for Brazil's highway sector has been
substantial, supporting GOB's initial priority for federal highways but also, from the early 70's, the
construction and improvement of state and municipal feeder roads with the objective of promoting
rural development and agricultural production in areas of high economic potential. Of thirteen loans
approved since 1968 for a value of US$1.8 billion, three have been exclusively to support feeder
roads, for a total of US$ 319 million (Table 1). The increasing attention given to feeder roads was
part of a wider recognition, during the 1970s, of the importance of rural development in Brazil.
More recently, Bank-financed state road projects have focussed on the rehabilitation and the
improvement of the maintenance and management of the state road network.
They included: POLONORDESTE, POLOCENTRO, POLAMAZONIA and POLONOROESTE,
as well as an 'Agrovias" program (1981) for expanding agricultural frontiers.



2
Table 1.1: Brazil - Bank Financed Feeder Road Projects
Year                           Project                    (USS millions)  Kilometers
Approved                                                   Loan Amount   Built/improved
1976      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Ln 1207-BR)         55.0             5,371
1979      Second Feeder Roads Project (Ln 1730-BR)               110.0             4,802
1982      Third Feeder Roads Project (Ln 2224-BR)                154.0             9,950
Total                                                 319.0             20,123
1.3    All three feeder roads projects (Table 1) involved financing the construction and improvement
of feeder roads throughout Brazil. Although over 20,000 km of feeder roads were improved under
the three projects, these improvements account for just 1.5 percent of Brazil's state and municipal
road systems, and the needs for rural road improvements are considerable.
1.4    At the time of the appraisal of this Project (1982), Bank objectives for the highway sub-sector
in Brazil were to support institutional and policy development aimed at ensuring adequate maintenance
of the federal, state and municipal road network together with the necessary development of state and
municipal feeder road systems. For feeder roads specifically the basic objectives of the Bank support
were to provide improved road access as a means to increase agriculture productivity, promote better
land use and improve isolated rural areas' access to health, education and social services. The
program also focussed on improving the planning, design and implementation of feeder road
programs.
Institutional Context
1.5    Direct responsibility for feeder roads in Brazil is shared by states and municipalities. In
theory, State Highway Departments (DERs) and Municipal Road Consortia2 plan, build and maintain
their respective components of state and municipal road systems. In practice, DER capability to
undertake these tasks varies considerably between states, being stronger in richer ones in southern
Brazil. Also, for lack of political support from state governors and mayors, Municipal Road
Consortia rarely got off the ground in most states. Where a municipality is unable to maintain key
segments of its network, it can reach an understanding with the state DER to undertake maintenance
on its behalf. The 1988 Constitution reduced federal government responsibilities for roads, paving
the way for greater state and municipal responsibilities in the future. Although not formally
responsible for feeder roads, DNER, through its vast experience and technical know-how, has been a
key participant in rural road operations.
2     Municipal road consortia, incorporated as companies under state law, have evolved as a means
for municipalities to join forces for effective use of their scarce resources and to have appropriate
institutional and technical capability that most of them could not have individually. Shares are
held by States, State DERS or municipalities. A consortium is governed by a General Assembly
of share holders representatives, administered by a Board of Directors and controlled financially
by a Fiscal Council.



3
1.6   The National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES), created in 1952, is GOB's
principal development agency and financial intermediary. At the time of project appraisal, it was the
centerpiece of an enormous financial system with total assets of US$17.7 billion, disbursing some
US$1.5 billion annually. It makes loans to industrial firms to acquire capital equipment, underwrites
stock and debenture issues, finances shareholders equity and also lends to state and municipal
governments for investment in infrastructure and equipment. The latter activity accounted for about
25% of total BNDES lending in the 1980's, giving the agency the experience necessary to manage the
successive feeder roads projects.
C. Project Objectives and Description
1.7    As spelled out in the Staff Appraisal Report, this project was designed in line with the
preceding two feeder road operations to support the continuation of the National Feeder Roads
Program (NFRP) administered by BNDES, as well as significant policy development and institution-
building efforts. Besides the primary objective of improving the performance of the agricultural and
rural sectors through upgrading the feeder road network, four other institutional objectives were to:
a.    ensure the continuity of the efforts made by the states and municipalities to build up a
pipe-line of feeder roads investments in line with their requirements and
implementation capabilities;
b.    promote a multi-sectoral approach to feeder roads planning and programming which
would integrate the various sectors involved in the development of state economies (in
particular, agricultural and rural development); and to improve and accelerate the
preparation and implementation of feeder roads projects on a decentralized basis;
c.    further strengthen the administration of NFRP.
d.    rationalize federal feeder road programs through ensuring adequate funding
mechanisms and the dissemination of appropriate technologies; as well as prepare for
the nation-wide upgrading of states' and municipalities maintenance capacities.
D. Project Components
To achieve the proposed objectives, the project included the following components:
a.    the provision of sub-loans for the construction, improvement or rehabilitation of
approximately 8,000 kms. of roads for a total cost of about US$500 million over the
period 1983-mid 1989, including consulting services for related engineering design
(5% of total project cost), supervision (2% of total project cost), and training of staff
to improve the maintenance capability of sub-borrowers (up to 5% of total project
cost);
b.    institution building measures aimed at improving procedures for feeder roads
planning, programming and implementation at state or municipal levels, and also at
strengthening BNDES' and DNER's management system and administration of the
program;



4
c.    building up policies and programs to harmonize federal feeder roads programs and to
upgrade the maintenance capacity at the state and municipal levels.
1.8   No cost was included in the project for the latter two components, since they would be carried
out by BNDES and the Ministry of Transport respectively with DNER's assistance, as part of their
ongoing responsibilities.
E. Project Design and Organization
1.9   The concept of the Project was similar to the previous operations (Ln 1730-BRa and Ln.
1207-BR), which cast BNDES in the role of a 'retailer" of the Bank Loan. Thus BNDES would on-
lend the Loan proceeds, together with GOB and BNDES counterpart funds, to state DERs and
Municipal Road Consortia to finance feeder road improvements throughout Brazil.
1.10  Prior to appraisal, some eligible sub-projects for a total cost of US$48 million were identified
as the Project's investment program for the first year, to ensure an expeditious start-up. This
approach took into account an important lesson of the previous project which suffered delays for not
having a portfolio of sub-projects ready for financing as soon as the Bank loan was approved (n
1730-BR. PCR report No. 8160 para. 14).
1.11   Conditions of lending and eligibility of sub-projects and sub-borrowers were laid out in a
project Operational Manual ("Manual de Rodovias Vicinais"), carefully elaborated prior to appraisal
with the assistance of Bank preparation missions (SAR para. 3.05). The Operational Manual became
the Project's key management instrument, explaining to sub-borrowers: (i) conditions and terms of
BNDES loans; (ii) appropriate engineering design standards and specifications; (iii) procurement
procedures; and (iv) methods for the economic evaluation of sub-projects. Through easing the terms
of lending to poorer states, particularly in Brazil's North-East region, the Project introduced a
regional development aspect to the operation.
1.12  The regional development objective of NFRP was actually met as shown in the following table
giving the geographic distribution of sub-projects carried out and implemented under the program;
about 70 percent of the roads improved under the Third Feeder Roads Project were located in the
poorer regions of the country (North, Northeast and Centerwest).
Table 1.2: Regional Distribution of Sub-Projects
Region                 Third Feeder Road Project            All 3 Feeder Road Projects
No. of subprojects  Km implemented   %      Km implemented       %
North               6                 1,896       19.0        2,493          12.4
Northeast           12                2,376      23.9         6,334          31.4
Southeast           4                 1,595       16.0        3,570          17.7
South               2                 1,417       14.3        3,623          18.0
Centerwest          6                2  66                    A 4 
TOTAL               30            9,950 km      100.0 %     20,152 km      100.0 %



5
1.13   The Project specified two methods of cost/benefit analysis for sub-borrowers to evaluate
feeder roads sub-projects. The first treated vehicle operating costs savings as benefits, following the
standard approach agreed with GEIPOT, GOB's planning agency for transport. This method was
used to evaluate the improvement of existing links where traffic flows were already significant. The
second, described as the 'value-added method", measured sub-project benefits as the agricultural
"producer surplus in the area of the road link considered" (SAR Annex 2 paras. 1-2). This method
was to be used in cases of new links that opened up areas for agricultural production for the first
time.
1.14   Project organization relied upon BNDES as the key executing agency. The choice of BNDES
was appropriate, given the agency's importance in the context of Brazil's development, its long
experience in financing local government programs and, more particularly, its previous experience
with two feeder road projects supported by the Bank. The Bank relied upon BNDES to retail the
Project to the final sub-borrowers (mostly state DERs). For this reason, the Bank delegated project
supervision and management functions to BNDES. At the same time, the Bank assigned a resident
engineer to BNDES headquarters in Rio de Janeiro in order to help strengthen management and
Operational Procedures whose weakness had come to light during the implementation of the second
project (Ln 1730. PCR report No. 8160 para. 11).
1.15  DNER, through its feeder roads Working Group and because of its valuable technical
experience in this area was assigned to provide assistance to BNDES, particularly in appraising
proposed sub-projects and reviewing engineering design and bidding documents. Responsibility for
the design and execution of individual sub-projects rested largely with state DERs, some better able
than others to fulfil this function. Although Municipal Road Consortia were slated to become key
players in the Project (SAR 2.11-2.12), in most states they did not become active for lack of local
political support.
F. Proiect ImUlementatiox
1.16  After initial delays in Loan Effectiveness, due to final revision of the Operational Manual,
implementation proceeded at a faster pace than the two preceding feeder roads projects. The first two
years of implementation had to be dedicated to smoothing management procedures, firming up the
pipeline of acceptable sub-projects and completing activities pertaining to the Second Feeder Roads
Program. The rhythm of loan disbursements picked up in 1985, the third year of implementation.
1.17   Project implementation (1983-89) itself coincided with a very unstable period in Brazil's
recent economic history. Inflation was rampant and unpredictable, being interrupted twice by macro-
economic shock treatments. Consumer price indices, construction costs, monetary correction factors
and devaluations of the local currency vis a vis the US dollar, all evolved at different rates, creating
havoc with project financing and sub-project cost estimation. The lag in monetary correction factors
with respect to local currency devaluations led to surplus US dollars in the Loan Account. At
completion, US$15.7 million was canceled from the Loan.
1.18   Construction costs per kilometer of feeder road under the Project were US$49,200, only 9%
higher than under the previous project (Loan 1730-BR). Assuming that the mix of investments in
both projects was similar, such a small increase at a time of generally rising unit construction costs
(in US dollar equivalent), would suggest that the trend towards over-design had been arrested under
this project (see para. 1.21).



6
1.19 The 1986 elections for state governors were reported by the Borrower's PCR (para. 2.18) to
have somewhat delayed project implementation, as incoming officials wished to review feeder road
priorities of their predecessors. However, these attempts were by and large, unsuccessful as very few
cancellations of sub-projects occurred during implementation (see para. 2.26) and the project was
completed with very little time overrun (6 1/2 years compared to 6 years as planned).
G. Project Results
1.20   The Project succeeded in meeting its physical targets. At completion date, Dec. 31, 1989,
9,950 kms of feeder roads and 7,391 m of bridges in 24 states of Brazil were built and/or improved.
Compared to an appraisal estimate of about 8,000 kms, the physical results can be considered as an
important achievement in itself, as they were 24 percent above appraisal estimate.
1.21   The general tendency for overdesign which the Project had sought to contain, had been halted
as shown in Table 8. The respective proportions of low standard feeder roads 3 implemented under
the First, the Second and the Third project are as follows:
First Feeder Roads Project: 2%
Second Feeder Roads Project: 68%
Third Feeder Roads Project: 77%
1.22   The pace of implementation was also substantially improved, increasing from between 500
and 600 km per annum for the first and second projects, to nearly 1,500 km per annum for this
project; the main factors explaining this improvement being: (a) better preparation of portfolio of
subprojects; (b) less cumbersome subproject appraisal process and review by the Bank; (c) improved
subloan preparation by BNDES; and, (d) better acceptance by DER and municipalities of more
appropriate engineering designs and standards.
1.23   Since the Project was first assigned to the Agriculture Department of BNDES, the expected
impact upon farm output was highlighted in BNDES' project documentation (see borrower's PCR,
para. 2.09). During 1983-89, the area harvested for grain production in Brazil (which the Project
explicitly tried to expand) increased substantially by 30.6%. Grain production itself rose even more
rapidly by 55.2%. Such favorable results are consistent with the aims of the Project although there
are other explanatory factors, such as local demand for farm products, commodity prices, farmers'
access to credit, and so on.
1.24 At appraisal, no internal rate of return was calculated for the Project as most of the
subprojects to be included in the Program had not yet been identified, but experience with the First
and Second projects had shown that rates of return would most likely range between 12 percent and
up to 40 percent. The Operational Manual made the very specific requirement that investments to be
financed under the project would have to yield a minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent.
Accordingly and as part of their appraisal of sub-projects, BNDES, throughout the implementation
period, assessed economic rates of return for sub-projects and presented the results to the Bank for its
A standard road being defined, here, as a 7 m wide paved road. Low-standard roads are defined
as having a maximum width of 6 m, either paved or unpaved, with generally lower design speeds
resulting in reduced geometrical standards.



7
approval. These assessments indicated that the sub-projects ERRs ranged between 13 and 30 percent.
No reevaluation after completion date was possible as regretfully data on increased traffic flows and
agricultural outputs in the micro-regions influenced by the roads had not been collected, because of
the demise of NFRP.
1.25   However, it can reasonably be argued that the Project had a positive economic impact:
*     by improving access between rural areas/communities and the rest of the country it
contributed to agricultural development through (i) reducing operating costs and
achieving economies of scale resulting from the use of heavier vehicles, with the cost
savings accruing principally to producers and consumers; and (ii) reducing risk and
uncertainty to farmers by providing more reliable all-weather access to markets,
storage and processing facilities;
*     by improving existing road conditions it produced significant benefits to road users in
terms of vehicle operating costs, as well as to isolated communities in terms of
reliable access to social, health and education facilities;
*     by focusing on the design procedures and methodologies for the preparation, appraisal
and implementation of the feeder roads subprojects, it improved the technological
environment in the states. Considerable on-the-job learning occurred and although
dissipated, these skills are still available to the highway sector in Brazil.
H. Proiect Sustainability
1.26   The sustainability of the physical achievements of the project depends strongly on the
maintenance of roads following construction. Almost 40 percent of the roads built under the three
projects were paved. Deterioration of paved roads is generally slow during the first five to ten years
of their service life. For these roads, it is reasonable to assume that at least, in the short to medium
term, paving provided some protection against possibly insufficient maintenance. The reasonableness
of this assumption has been recently confirmed by observations made by Bank missions on a sample
of these roads which presented a fairly good surface condition after 5 to 7 years of service.
1.27   For the proportion of unpaved roads built under this program, the need for initiating, almost
immediately after construction, a reliable pfocess of maintenance is imperative for project
sustainability. In that respect, it is not known whether any substantial efforts have consistently been
made, so far, by States or Municipalities. Assuming the worst, i.e., inadequate maintenance,
sustainability is probably at risk insofar as road surface performance is concerned. It is therefore
important that any new road programs, at state or municipal level, be designed to include measures
aimed at enhancing maintenance activities particularly on the portion of the network where traffic
intensity is significant and where surface condition warrants. In this respect, the Bank's current series
of State Highway projects are primarily directed at improving road maintenance capabilities at the
state and municipal level.
1.28   Regarding institutional achievements, the project has strengthened the local agencies in the
areas of feeder road programs design, preparation, economic evaluation and implementation. The
knowledge acquired is still available and is being profitably used in the preparation and
implementation of state-level projects supported by the Bank and IDB.



8
I. Bank Performance
1.29   BNDES' management of the Project, reduced the need for Bank field supervision, although
Bank missions were deployed regularly throughout implementation. The presence of a Bank resident
engineer in BNDES' offices in Rio de Janeiro during the first half of implementation helped to get the
Project on track. The engineer's efforts kept Bank management well informed about progress made
and provided on-the-spot Bank reaction to problems as they arose. In BNDES itself and in the DERs,
the efforts of the resident engineer were well appreciated. The advantages of the presence of a
resident engineer to help supervise this kind of project were also recognized in the PCR of the
Northwest Region Development Program Highway Project (Ln 2062-BR, PCR, para. 19).
J. Borrower Performane
1.30   BNDES performance was satisfactory and the presence of a Bank resident engineer reinforced
its technical and operational performance. Following the abolition of the NFRP, senior BNDES
management's interest in the operation declined and BNDES shifted its priorities from public sector
lending to private sector operations.
1.31  In spite of severe budgetary constraints DNER provided the necessary technical support to
BNDES, through its Feeder Roads Working Group. Performance among state DERs themselves
varied considerably, however. Those in Sao Paulo, Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, Goias, and
Pernambuco made most progress in improving their project appraisal and supervision procedures.
Those in poorer states, generally speaking, made the least progress. As already mentioned,
Municipal Road Consortia generally did not get off the ground due to lack of local political support.
K. Project Relationship
1.32   Between BNDES and the Bank, the relationship was productive, and reinforced by the
presence of a Bank resident engineer. Relations between BNDES and some DERs were difficult at
first owing to the latters' reluctance to accept the lower design standards advocated by the project.
Later, there was an improvement as BNDES explained the rationale for reduced standards.
L. Consulting Services
1.33   Consultants were retained under the Project principally by sub-borrowers to help them prepare
both feasibility studies and final engineering designs for feeder roads. Supervision activities were
generally carried out by the sub-borrowers own personnel and only occasionally with the assistance of
consulting firms. For the most part, local consultants carried out these tasks efficiently.
M. Project Documentation and Data
1.34   Reports and files pertaining to the sub-projects financed under the Loan are complete.
Progress reporting by DERs to BNDES and by BNDES to the Bank, irregular at the beginning,
improved later and provided an adequate account of project implementation. Essential parts of a
project completion report prepared by BNDES have been translated and incorporated as Part U of this
report.



9
N. Lessons Learned
1.35 However large in a project whose investments meet a small proportion of total sector needs,
required, in the words of the SAR: "a multi-sectoral and decentralized approach to feeder road
planning' (SAR para. 4.01). As the management of the program within BNDES was transferred
from the infrastructure department to the agricultural department, NFRP's emphasis on support to
agricultural development and, as a result agricultural production and/or development potential,
became an important criteria in the selection of the roads to be improved. There is a need to further
strengthen this effort and to establish a fully comprehensive multi-sectoral approach to feeder road
planning at state and local levels.
1.36   Not recognizing the importance of ex-post economic evaluation of the sub-projects was a
serious omission in the project. There is a need to encourage executing agencies to perform these
analyses so that all parties involved in the Project are aware of the investments' performance.
Without such an evaluation, executing agencies themselves are deprived of an important management
instrument for monitoring and evaluation. As an incentive to implement ex-post economic evaluation
of projects, loan agreements should systematically include this as an essential loan condition.
1.37   The Project proved to be a potentially important instrument for regional development by
adopting differential lending terms and recognizing the wide variation of physical and institutions
conditions between regions.
1.38   The Operational Manual served as an important management tool for the project. It was an
essential instrument in an arrangement whereby BNDES retailed the Loan on Bank's behalf. The
considerable BNDES and Bank effort on elaborating it prior to appraisal was a good investment, as
the Operational Manual helped guide the project throughout its implementation, and is now being used
in the preparation and implementation of a new generation of State Highway Projects.
1.39   Better preparation of a portfolio of subprojects, less cumbersome subproject appraisal
procedures and review by the Bank, as well as improved subloan preparation resulted in a satisfactory
pace of implementation. These arrangements should become standard features of Bank-financed road
projects.
1.40   Although the use of an intermediary like BNDES helped to achieve a regionally balanced
program for feeder roads, this may not be effective in achieving sustainability of institutions and
maintenance of assets created.
1.41   While Municipal Road Consortia were slated to become key actors in the Project, they
remained inactive in most States, for lack of political support.
1.42   The assignment, during project implementation, of a Bank resident engineer to BNDES, in
Rio de Janeiro, proved successful in strengthening management and operational procedures.
1.43 If the previous two projects revealed Brazil's executing agencies' intrinsic preference for high
standard construction, the third project, arrested a trend towards over-design. Previously, key factors
in encouraging high standards were found to be: (i) the desire to ensure that the investment would
last, given the likelihood of its not being properly maintained; (ii) pressure from contractors' and
professional lobbies in favor of high standards which mean contracts of larger value; and, (iii) local



10
professional pride in a high quality product. The evolution of the programn towards more appropriate
and lower standards reflects the greater concern of the agencies involved to provide rural roads at
least cost.
1.44   Considerable on-the-job learning went on at all levels of the project and within all
participating agencies. Subsequent reorganizations and re-assignment of project staff, however, make
it difficult to ascertain exactly where the results of this learning were eventually deployed. Much of it
is still likely to be available in Brazil's highway sector, through either government or private
consulting firms.



11
PART H - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
2.1   The Third Feeder Roads Project, (Loan 2224-BR), with a total project cost of US$ 502.3
million equivalent, was financed through the following sources of funds:
IBRD         = US$ 154,000,000
BNDES        = US$ 178,800,000
MT/DNER    = US$ 46,000,000
Sub-borrowers = US$ 123,500,000
2.2   The funds were allocated to beneficiaries in different States, grouped in three distinct income
groups, namely:
Region A: Low-income states:     Acre, Alagoas, Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara, Espiritu Santo,
Goias, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Para, Paraiba,
Pernanbuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Rondonia,
Sergipe, Amapa, Roraima.
Region B: Medium-income states:   Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro,
the Federal District.
Region C: High-income states:    Sao Paulo
Taking into account the sub-projects implementation schedule and the financial capacity of the
Sub-borrowers, the sources of funds were initially distributed as follows. This distribution had
proved satisfactory under the First and Second projects.
Table 2.1: Distribution of Funds According to Income Groups
% Participation                    Amount
Sources of Fund        Group A      Group B      Group C      (US$ millions)
IBRD                           32.8         32.2         32.5               154.0
BNDES                          37.0         29.7         21.6               178.8
MT/DNER                        10.2          8.1          5.9                46.0
Sub-borrowers                  20.0         30.0         40.0               123.5
Total                     100.0         100.0        100.0              502.3



12
2.3    The corresponding legal agreement between BNDES and DNER was signed on April 28,
1983, and the date of Effectiveness of the contract was June 6, 1983.
2.4    The Third Feeder Roads Project came into force on June 21, 1983 and was concluded on
December 31, 1989. It remained effective for 6.5 years, after the original term of 6 years was
extended for six months.
2.5    On September 30, 1983, and pursuant to the agreement among cofinanciers, an amendment
was signed, called "Programa de Assistencia Especial - PAE", increasing the World Bank share in the
financing plan during the period October 1, 1983 to June 30, 1985. The original distribution of sub-
loans per group, became as follows:
Table 2.2: Distribution of PAE Funds According to Income Groups
% Participation
Sources of Funds          Group A       Group B       Group C
IBRD                             60.7           58.8          56.2
BNDES                             30.0          21.7          14.1
DNER                               6.0           4.4           2.7
Sub-borrowers                      3.3          15.1          27.0
Total                        100.0         100.0         100.0
The PAE program was extended and remained effective up to May 30, 1986. The corresponding
disbursements amounts are shown in the table below:
Table 2.3: Distribution of PAE Funds in the Third Feeder Road Project
(US$ 1000)
Moto     Mato     Mato   Rondonia  Penanbuco   Goias    Rio    TOTAL
Groo do  Groso (3)  Groso (4)   RO-2   E-2     GO-2   Gnnde do
SUL-3                                                  Norte
RN-3
For DNBR            411       198      410      293       249      242      44       1,S4S
For Sub-Borrowers   1,636     788     1,606     1,106    1,004     938     173       7,250
IBRD IN US S        2,047     986     2,016     1,399    1,253    1,180     217      9,098



13
B. Project Objectives and Results
2.6   In line with the previous two feeder road projects, the third national feeder roads project
aimed at promoting agricultural activities by providing permanent road transport facilities both to
potentially productive or expanding agricultural areas as well as to communities lacking proper road
access. To achieve these objectives, the program contemplated the upgrading of approximately 400
sections of rural roads of different classes, totalling 10,580 Km and the construction of 6,712 m of
bridges. A state by state brakedown is shown in Table 7.
2.7    These works were procured in 30 contracts, executed in all units of the federation (except for
the states of Santa Catarina and Maranhao) a cost of about US$597.9 million equivalent.
2.8    At completion date, on December 31, 1989, 405 sections had been fully implemented,
totalling 9,950 Km of rural roads, including the length of black spots corrected, and 7,391 m of
bridges, at a total cost of US$491.2 million equivalent. However, at that point, some states either
had not completed all contracted sections or not yet started construction on other contracts. These
were canceled, reducing consequently the physical target of the program, by approximately 350 Km
(Decision of the BNDES Board of Directors: DEC. DIR 39/9 1). The sections under construction but
not yet completed,totaling 863 km, in which a reasonable share of the estimated investment had
already been disbursed remained and were implemented with funds from the respective sub-
Borrowers. Taking these sections into account and estimating their final cost on the basis of what had
been already implemented the physical target accomplished in the Third project amounts to 428
sections, comprising 10,813 km of feeder roads at a total cost of US$497.3 million equivalent.
2.9    According to available data, the production of agricultural grains increased by up to 14%,
particularly in the 1986/87 crop. However, no economic evaluations have been conducted by the sub-
Borrowers in the areas of influence of the sections and bridges built under the project, as most states
at completion date, submitted reports covering only the financial and physical achievements of their
sub-projects, with no indication on the actual condition of the roads, traffic volumes, statistics on
agricultural production or land use along the sections served by the Program.
2.10   In addition to the physical, financial and economic goals, objectives of a social nature were
also contemplated and achieved: the provision of permanent road access to isolated poor
communities.
2.11   It should also be mentioned that all the three rural feeder projects, were designed in line with
the contemporary Brazilian Transportation model, in which the road system predominates.
Accordingly, and given the size of the country and the scarcity of funds, the network of main and
secondary arterial roads, under the responsibility of DNER and the State roads departments (DER)
respectively, still faces unaddressed needs considered to be more important than those of the feeder
roads network. This apparently led the sub-borrowers to over-design the feeder roads, particularly in
the previous two programs.



14
Table 2.4: State by State Breakdown of Program Objectives and Results
hwm* now  BM                &kxoiw caugoA           Obj.nh  t k.ff.L           A.W.             AWdw   A.         Teal NM.d .aND         P"... (1)
_______                                                                           -     Jaw    o        6.                 -            __.__
A (U.)              ACRE                     DERAC-L                             74                   79                                      7                     105.7
A                   ALAGOAS                  DER/AL                             IS2                                      9                   94                     61.U
A                   AIAA                     DER1AP                             201                  103                                    m03                    tC00
A                   AM4AZONAS                DEftAM                             1I4 107                                                      3                      5.2
A                   WAIlA                    CRIA-M                             I30J                   33                is                  la4                   113
A                   CLARA                    DAERICS&E                          36                    114                                    14                     5031
a (Aedk.4         DOlfIFO  FEDERAL         DEIUDF-I                           256                   290                                    210                    109.4
A                   E5RTrO SAWTO             DERS-13                            146                   130                                    130                    89.1
A                   GOIAS                    DERIGOOM  (2)                   531/03 3.0 7 m                                     _W___7 a                         7YI31
A                   MATO GROSS0              DERMATM (1)                       442*                 4454 a               112             132434 a                    W9.J
A                   MATO GROSSO              DELMAT.IV                          1033                 1033               338                  1271                  123
A                   IMATO 0ROSSO DO SUL    DERSULMI                             I9                    217                                    217                   109
A                   WATO GROSSO DO SUL    DERSUL-lV                             715                   746                                    746                   IC4
a                 1410AS GERAS             DERUMO.U                           795                   du                                                             NJ
A                   lANA                     DER/PA-H                           an                    69                 113                 713                    103.1
A                   PAIAMA                   DER/P-M                            290                   293                7t                  372                   125.9
R                 PARA?NA                  Df3t/P2V                           *06                                                          no                     103
A                   PW4ANIUUCO               DER/PE-L                           317                  317                                     317                   300
A                   P7QAKBUCO                DERME-01                           I"                    123                                    125                    n7.2
A                   PIAUI                    CODERPI-                           1394
US                 7835                                      101.3
A                   MAUI                    ~DER/PI-]                          1in
O                 RIO DE JANEIRO           DER/IU                             2C1                   217                                    217                     77.2
A                   103 GRANDM   DO          DERIN-                             M2                    224                                    224                    10.9
A                   RID GRANDE DO            DERIRN.V                           233                   138                137                                       10.7
NORTH                                                                                          
0                 RIO GlANDS DO SUL        DAE/RRS-3                          607                   57                 Is                  dJ2                     9.2
A                   UINDONIA                 DEJUR/D0                           404                   630                                    dlO                   153.9
A                   RORADAA                  DERI                               29                    279 2                                  in27                  101
C *kw           SAO PAULO               DELUSP-IV                           SW                   5m0                                    so           9     9    9
A                   SuEIGI?                  DEN/SE-M                         232 O)                  252                31                  20                    104_4
A                   SE0G1                    D     VR/SE-                       381                   14t                U _                                       1303
SUN TOTAL               ROADS a-)                        10S10  |a   9m9  in                      so I               1111131a ()               1L2
SUN TOTAL               BRIDGES (                         d712 *                7391 a                                 739.                    3 30.3
GROUP A ()          SUW TOTAL                ROADS 0*7319 ki                                        c7 17              is in               9953 ha                 I04.
G0OUP E 04.8k..    SUN TOTAL                 ROADS  )                         29 iam 21                 t km               102                                      NJlL
OUP C OIV           SUS TOTAL                ROADS (km)                       5so km                 so km                                 30 k                     3.9
(I) DM. * 4 wik h _o
(2J RomJahaW1rm   in =mm
0) T.W r.imo  i nk d bhck pi .1
(4) C.Wim   4 d.: D.31 It9. Allw mhpha 4_ .W 6 sog , IM1
(1) FPl 16 .d1  - 102.2% I  kik. to obj. wd 18 t 



15
C. Project Implementation
2.12   The rate of progress observed in the second feeder roads project was considered very low: an
implementation rate of about 624 Km/year of rural roads.
2.13   The third project aimed at improving the pace of construction to about 2 000 Km/year. In
order to achieve that objective, changes were introduced in some of the procedures adopted for the
second feeder road program, with the hope that this would help overcoming the bottlenecks that
impeded proper implementation of previous projects, namely:
* lack of adequate identification of sub-project scope and objectives;
* the practice of excessive series of studies, analysis, and re-evaluations between project
initiation and decision stages.
2.14   The following modifications were brought to the third feeder roads Operational Manual, and
duly notified in advance to the sub-borrowers:
* Feasibility studies were to be based on adequate engineering designs of sub-projects.
* All programs submitted for approval would include a basic set of roads to be ,.nanced and a
"stock" kept available either for the purpose of replacing sections from the basic set or for the
use of remaining funds.
2.15   These new requirements made it possible:
f to reduce the time spent, between the signature of the various subcontracts and the beginning
of the construction, in elaborating the engineering projects and subsequent joint analysis and
approval by BNDES and DNER;
 to eliminate delays resulting from slow decision making regarding the replacement of certain
sections to be financed. In addition, this gave more time for the elaboration of an engineering
design for the new sections and for the subsequent joint analysis by BNDES and DNER; and
* to restrict the margin of freedom of new State governments in changing sections while
speeding up and officializing agreed changes, through letters, generally within two or three
months.
2.16    The availability of BNDES technicians during the second program was profitably used in
this regard with positive results in many instances. However, some sub-borrowers, particularly the
new ones carried out the engineering designs during the period allocated to feasibility studies, thereby
extending this period beyond the initial estimate.
2.17   Other shortcomings which had occurred during implementation of the Second feeder roads
project, such as:
l lack of specific organization;



16
* reluctance to accept lower technical standards for low traffic volume roads, had already been
overcome at the initiation stage of the third project, thereby strengthening expectations.
2.18   However, other problems accounting for the low rate of progress in the implementation of the
second project still prevailed, particularly:
* the absence of a feeder rural roads master plan at states and/or municipal levels;
* the periodic political changes occurring in the state governments;
* the scarcity of financial resources to provide the state counterpart funds.
2.19   Taking into account the total project implementation period of 6.5 years, the rate of
implementation reached 1,530/km/year, thus slightly below targeted objective but still representing an
improvement of 138% in relation to the pace of construction achieved during the Second feeder roads
project.
D. Difficulties and Experiences
2.20   The main difficulties encountered during the implementation of the Third Feeder Roads
Project were the following:
a) institutional changes;
b) absence of a master plan for feeder rural roads, at states or municipal levels;
c) low investment capacity for infrastructure works;
d) general limitations on the part of the states regarding public debt;
2.21   The changes introduced by the new Brazilian Constitution, in October 1988, have had an
impact on the financial flow of the Program, due to provisions for decentralizing tax revenue
distribution, which would be complemented by the corresponding redefinition of the tax liability of
the Union, states, and municipalities. Such changes in the tax system have altered the financing
interaction among the Union, the States and the Municipalities, changing the financial behavior on
which the program was based, at least, partially. Yet, on account of such changes, States, while
waiting for a redefinition of their tax liability and for a reprogramming of their fiscal, financial and
investment policies, (infrastructure investment policies in particular) have also adopted a position of
financial retrenchment.
2.22   Political changes in state governments have always had a negative impact on the development
programs of the states. The above mentioned constitutional changes exacerbated this effect, and had
these not occurred, the efficiency improvements made under the program would have been enhanced.
2.23   As far as the lack of master plans for feeder roads is concerned, it should be stressed that
most of these roads are under municipal jurisdiction. The network of main and secondary arterial
roads under the jurisdiction of the DNER and state roads departments (DER), form a vast network yet
in need of further expansion and for which available resources are insufficient. Given the predomi-



17
nant position of the road system and the above-mentioned deficiencies, the actual transportation
system is left with very little technical and financial resources to upgrade rural roads to the status of
an organized network, at the level of a master plan. As the majority of state and federal roads are
not used to their full traffic volume capacity the extension of the tertiary road network may help to
improve that situation. This idea apparently gained general support only towards the end of the Third
Feeder Roads Project. In some agricultural states however, this was already a very important trend
and investments were systematically being made in rural roads.
2.24   The difficulties mentioned in para 2.20(c) and (d) above usually occur simultaneously
reflecting the economic situation of the states, although the more developed states faced such
difficulties to a lesser extent.
2.25   The most interesting lessons learned during the implementation of the third project were:
a) the increased interest on part of the States in improving their feeder roads network; their
financial participation finally reached about 40% while original estimates ranged between 20
and 25%;
b) the good technical acceptance for lower standard roads; and
c) the adequate managerial quality of sub-programs.
2.26   There were indeed few cancellations of sections or substitution of sections as a result of poor
management. Cancellations, when occurred, resulted either from the low capacity to invest in
infrastructure, or from restrictions related to their public debt and also from changes occurring in
state governments.
2.27   In respect to the managerial quality level, some DERs are already implementing computerized
pavement management, road maintenance and planning systems, and are giving due attention to
prioritization of investments and cost control, etc.
E. Comparison with Previous Programs
2.28   Table 8 provides a comparative summary of the main items between the three projects. The
followings points are noteworthy:
a) the amount of funds invested in the third project exceeds the sum of the two previous
projects, by nearly US$72 million equivalent;
b) the third project had the lowest IBRD share, approximately 28.4%, as compared to 37.2%
and 41.9% obtained for the first and second projects, respectively.
c) the third project implemented the largest length of roads (as a consequence of the larger
amount of funds) although at a slightly higher average unit price: overall average unit cost of
road construction per kIn: first project, US$39,800, second project, US$45,000, and third
project, US$49,200. If adjustment for inflation is taken into account the price increase is
negligible.



18
d) the third project included: 0.8% of experimental pavement with 0.2% trial sections using
irregular polyhedrical stones; 5.8% of class D road paved with single surface dressing.
40.2% of the total road's length were paved under the third program, while the corresponding
figures for the second and first projects were 39.9% and 28.1%, respectively;
e) the physical and financial composition of the Project, by income group, confirmed that Group
A states are most dependent on financial support for investment in tertiary roads. Group C
states (Sao Paulo) tend to be the most independent and rely mostly on their own sources.
f) total outlays reached 115% of the initial estimated amount, indicating that, for some states,
the project worked as a lever for disbursement from their own resources;
g) average unit costs for road construction, although within the standard limits, increased
slightly, if at all. The wide variation in average costs resulted from the difference in the
classes and types of pavements, among the different sub-projects or even within one sub-
project. The initial condition of the road section before construction was an important factor.
Cases occurred where only reshaping the sub-grade and restoring the pavement were
necessary; in others, resetting up of the alignment and complete reconstruction of the
pavement were needed. The wide range of situations between these two extremes accounted
for the variations observed in the unit costs.
F. Performance Evaluation of Co-Financing Institutions
2.29   The Operating Manual for the third Feeder Roads Project was designed and updated to
regulate the different actions and specifications applicable to the third project. Based on the two
previous manuals it drew from the lessons learned during the implementation of the previous projects.
No major changes were introduced regarding the distribution of respective responsibilities among
BNDES, DNER and Sub-Borrowers and the basic regulations designed for the second project
remained effective. One of the novelties was the new forms designed to store data on studies,
projects and section constructions records with the objective of creating a BNDES rural roads data
base. This data base was used to monitor cost and quantity estimates for rural roads contracts and
also to control these variables for future sections financed through the project; it provided access to
reliable data for the final evaluation of subcontracts within the project.
G. DNER Technical and Financial Suport
2.30   When the Third project started DNER had intensified its activities, and strengthened its
technical backup team for feeder roads. Taking support from the Road Districts, the technical teams
responded more promptly to the needs in fulfilling the missions assigned to DNER in the project.
Later, when the institution was reorganized and its headquarters transferred to Brasilia, these activities
lost in intensity, yet without much technical prejudice to the project. However, on the financial side,
DNER was still lagging behind IBRD and BNDES in its disbursements and, ended with an
undisbursed amount of US$13.4 million equivalent.



19
H. Role and Performance of IBRD
2.31   Apart from providing valuable financial contribution and ensuring that allocated funds were
effectively made available by co-financiers, the involvement of the World Bank in the Feeder Roads
Project also enabled its staff to become fully aware of the Brazilian road system and, consequently, to
play an active role in promoting the modernization of roads agencies as well as in implementing road
maintenance programs, jointly with DNER and other States.
2.32   From September 1981 to October 1985, IBRD held a field office within the BNDES facilities
and this enabled the Bank to participate more actively in the Feeder Roads Projects.
2.33  IBRD participation through the Special Assistance Program - Programa de Assistencia
Especial (PAE) was particularly important. This Project provided DNER and seven sub-Borrowers
with financial resources amounting to US$9,040 million equivalent.
I. Organization and Performance of Sub-Borrowers
2.34   The State Roads departments, acting as executive agencies for the Sub-Borrowers, performed
their responsibilities with due recognition of the fact that rural roads function as roads of a tertiary
nature, complementing the primary and secondary road network. With that in view, their administra-
tive and managerial systems were changed and modernized through computerization and information
exchange with similar agencies in the US. The departments (DER) that have progressed the most are
the ones from Sao Paulo, Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, followed by those from Pernambuco
and Rio Grande do Sul. Departments in low-income States have not fully adopted such procedures,
but, a number of them have computerized systems, at least for administrative purposes, and are in
contact with departments which are at a more advanced stage in implementing computerized road
management systems, in order to exchange information, technology and training. In Sao Paulo and
Parana, roads of the tertiary network are benefiting from new management techniques and the
performance of their sub-projects has been fully satisfactory.
2.35   For the evaluation of the overall Program, all Sub-Borrowers were asked to present a final
report on their sub-projects, addressing, among other aspects, economic impact evaluations in the
areas of influence of the sections implemented (including traffic counts).



20
Table 2.5: Comparisons with Previous Programs
hem                              Description                                Unit        First      Seond         Third
Program     Program       Program
I     Total cost of tho progrm                                          10' USS       214,0      216,6         502,3
2      Etimted v     lueof the loan                                      10' USS       55,0      90,5"         154,0
3      Anount disbuo d                                                   10' USS      69,0       90,5          138,3
4     Tota length of roada implemented at compltion date                km             5,371,0   4,802,4       9,950
5     Total length of bridges built at completion date                  m             3,610,0   16,406,0       7,391
6      Km construted/x 100 Km planned                                    %            27.6       90.4          94.0
7      Numnber of aectiona irnplemented                                 section        182       255           405,0
S      Percent of ections implemented/planned                            %            na"        -9,3          +3,3
9     Total duration of Program                                         year          9,5        7,7           6,5
10    Percent increae in implementationperiod in reltion to planned     %             +72,7      +9,4          +8,3
11    Average tire priod between invitation letter and signture of contrct  year      2,08       1,91          2,4
12    Aveorge tise period between signature of contract and end of construction   year  4,42     4,13          na
13    On date scheduled in original tin-tble                            %             12,0       S5,5          an
14    Averge constructed length per year                                kmn           567,7      623,7         1,530
15     Pereentage of paved roada                                        %             30,2       47,0          42,3
16    Avepge unit coot per clas or roads:
-  A/PAV 7 m wide paved road                                      10' USS/km    64,5      69,2          82,1
-  B/PAV 6 m wide paved road                                     10' USS/km    83,9       65,6          73,8
-  C/PAV 5.5 m wide paved road                                    10' USS/km    na        61,1          72,9
-  B/Gravel 6 m wide gavel-surfaced road                         10' USS/km    70,3       34,4          40,4
-  C/Gorvel 5.5 m wide grvel-surfaced road                        10' USS/km    25,0      40,0          40,3
-  D/Gravel I5 m wide grvel-surfaced road                        10' USS/km    33,2       32,7          30,S
-  E'Grvel 4 m wide gravel-surfaced road                         10' USS/km    IS,5      22,8          25,2
17    Aveage unit cost for al cluas                                     10' USS/km    39,8       45,1          49,2
1s    Average unit cost of bridges                                        USS/m       na         1,102         2,600
19    Physical composition of progrm by road category:
-  A/PAV                                                          % - Km       nas        10,6 - 511    S,l - S06
BIPAV                                                         % -Km         na        21,4 - 1030    14,9 - 1483
-  C/PAV                                                         % - Km        VA         7,9 - 378     10,4 - 1035
-  B/Gravel                                                      % - Km        na         4,1 - 198     12,2 - 1213
C/Gravel                                                      % - Km        na         1,1 - 53      2,4 - 239
D/Grovel                                                      S - Km        an         15,2 - 729    22,6 - 2249
8/Gravel                                                      % - Km         a        29,7 - 1424    20,5 - 2040
Others (A/gr + D/PAV + E/PAV)                                     % - Km       na         10,0 - 480    S,9 - 885
20    Physical composition of progrm per region:
- Group A'                                                        % - Km       no         71,e - 3448    68,2 - 6781
- Group B                                                         % - Km       na         13,7 - 658    25,2 - 2502
- Group C                                                         % - KM       na         14,5 - 596    5,6 - 550
21     Finacial program composition by regione5
- Group A                                                         %            52,4       53,7          58,9
- Group B                                                         %            39,4       33,9          35,6
- Group C                                                         %            8,2        12,4          5,5
22     Progrec of Disbursement:
-  1/4 period                                                     %             13        11            3,1
-  1/2 period                                                     %            33         34            42,2
-  3/4 period                                                     %            74         61            79,2
-  1/1 period                                                     5             100       100           100,0
"I  estimeted (110 - suplem. lt Prognm (19.3) -90.5
*2  amount dibursed till lww 30, 1986
*3  nv (na) - not verified (not available)
*4  durtion from the date of effectiveneu to date of conclusion
*5   ee list of States in Table 7
*6   ame as in pa. 2.02



21
2.36   On December 27, 1991, most states had submitted reports covering only the physical and
financial achievements of their sub-projects.
2.37   As mentioned above, the sub-borrowers generally showed a better performance in this project
than in the previous one: the construction pace improved to 1,530 km/year against 624 km/year
achieved in the Second project.
H. Conclusions
2.38   The main lessons and experiences gained from the implementation of the third project and
which could be useful for future programs have been addressed throughout this report.
2.39   However, the following other aspects that may be relevant to future feeder road programs
and, by and large, to transportation programs, are also noteworthy:
a) all three feeder roads projects were designed in line with the current transportation model,
which places great emphasis on road transport (except for railways which carry most of the
ores, coal and steel products). This model is now being discussed and questioned, with a
view to increase the level of efficiency of the transport system.
Indeed, the distribution of domestic markets, production and consumption areas, origin and
destination of products present certain geographical characteristics which suggest that an
intensive use of water and rail transport complemented by the road system, including feeder
roads, (in a multimodal combination) would improve the system's level of efficiency.
However, the existing railway and waterway systems do not presently satisfy the demands
thus impeding intermodality and transferring the bulk of the freight on the road system.
It is therefore important that investment programs in the transport sector systematically take
this view into consideration in the attribution of priorities among all transportation modes, so
that each mode can be applied within the most appropriate operational range. Planning for
rural roads network, yet best achieved by local authorities, should follow these principles and
priority should be given to the segments feeding main trunk systems;
b) the political trend towards privatization of public services, including those in the area of
transportation and infrastructure, should be pursued as being consistent with the above-
mentioned sector strategy.
Brazil has already had some experience with private sector participation in transport
infrastructure. The presence of the private sector is an important factor when considering the
issue of raising funds for investments in transportation. In addition, concession of public
services to private firms is now being discussed in Congress with a view to enacting
legislation;
c) in view of these considerations and taking into account the function the road system will play
in a new transport development model, the role given to feeder roads will contribute to a
better definition of priorities and to the institutionalization of the agencies under which the
network of the tertiary roads will be placed. These two aspects are at the core of the
problems identified in the Projects, together with two other difficulties mentioned earlier: the



22
failure of Sub-Borrowers to provide their share of funds and the political changes which occur
when a new Governor is elected and takes office; and
d) finally, future feeder road programs should be more concentrated, with well defined priorities
and placed under the responsibility of road agencies that are responsible not only for planning
and implementation but also for maintenance.



PART Im - STATISTlCAL INFORMATION
Table 3.1: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Number   Title             Purpowe                                    Approval   Status            Comments
567-BR         Furst Hi2hwav    To finance construction and paving supervision  1968  Closed            $26.0 miUlion loan for detailed engineering and
Construction     of seven major roads in the country.                                    construction supervision for 424km. of highways.
Proiet                                                                                   Satisfactory completion one year prior to
schedule, with a final cost overrun of 10%.
676-BR         Second Hifhwav  Included construction, improvement and paving  1970    Closed            $100.0 milion loan intended help finance works
Construction     of 2,136km. of major roads.                                             which were satisfactorily completed with a cost
Proiect                                                                                  overrun of only 6%.
756-BR         Santos Port      First Bank Loan for the port sub-sector in  1971      Closed            $45.0 miUion loan for project that experienced   ,
Proiec           Brazil, aimed at supporting parts of Santos                             considerable cost overruns and delays. Lcss than
Port's five year development plan (1971-75),                            50% was completed by planned closing date, due
including the construction of a container                              to revisions and protracted discussions over
terminal and ancillary raliway facilities.                              revision of priorities.
786-BR         Railway Proiect   First Bank financed project for Brazil's  1971       Closed            $46.0 million loan. A lower economic rate of
railways (after a of nearly 20 years) supported                         return than expected at appraisal resulted from
a program for upgrading the system. It was a                           the difficuties of completing a project with a
component of a larger operation for iron ore                           large institutional component within a ambitiously
mining and exporting.                                                   tight time frame.
813854-BR      Third and Fourth  Included construction and paving of 2,530km.   1972  Closed            $140.0 milion (two loans) for a project
Hifhwav Proiects  of highways and consultants' servic  for                               completed satisfactorily with a higher economic
supervision and engineering studies for an                             rate of return than expected.
additional 4,210km.
1074-BR        Second Railwav   Responding to the grater emphasis placed by   1975    Closed            $175.0 million loan fully dispered as part of the
Proiect          GOB on the railway sub-sector, the project's                           investment programs of the federal railways.
objective was to help the consolidation rail                            Their policy impact upon the much larger
tranport through key export corridors to major                          programs was, however, ess than hoped for at
ports.                                                                  appaisal.



Year of
Loan Number   Title             Purpose                                    Approval   Status             Comments
1075-BR         iftih Hizhwav    The first Bank finance highway project in  1975      Closed            S1 10.0 million loan effective 1975. Early delays
Proiect          Brazil aimed primarily at supporting road                               through lack of counterpart funding set back
maintenance and rehabilitation, instead of new                         initial progress, and also led to cut backs in the
road construction,                                                      construction and operation of the key component
of weighing stations aimed at reducing axle
weights.
1171-BR        Third Raihwai    To finance investments to improve the suburban 1975   Closed            $75.0 million loan effective March 1976.
Proiect          rail service of the Sio Paulo railway company                           FEPASA was able to reduce operating costs of
(FEPASA)         (FEPASA).                                                              the suburban services as a result of staff
deployment and operational improvements
introduced through the project.
1207-BR        Secondary and    To improve and construct 5,210 km of state    1976    Closed            $55.0 miUion loan effective July 1976. Physical ~
Feeder Roads     and municipal roads and 62 bridges, throughout                          implementation progressed well, but because of
Pro ect          the country, with significant investments in the                        constant devaluation of ORTN (monetary unit
poorer North-East region.                                               used to denominate sub-loans) a major ro-
formulation of project had to be undertaken in
1981.
1557-BR        Sixth Hi,hway    To finance rehabilitation works on federal  1978      Closed            $114.0 million loan effective October 1978.
Proict           highways.                                                               Works proceoded well until mid-1980, when
federal government financial constraints led to
them being suspended. Program resumed in mid-
1981, but at a slower pace, kading to two year
overrun by compktion. Maintenance program of
State of ParanL went partcularly well.
1563-BR        Urban TransPort  To finance investments to improve public   1978       Closed            $88.0 milion loan effective October 1978.
Proiect          transport services, especially to the poor,                             Project helped strengthen the Brzilian Urban
support formulation of appropriate tnsport                              Transport Company (EBTU - newly created in
policies and strengthen municipal, state and                            1976, but later abolished in 1989) and improve
federal capacity to prepar, appaie and                                  public transport in the five selected cities as well
execute sound urban transport project.                                  as providing institutional support at the municipal
kvel. Project experienced delays due to
protracted prepartion of final engineering
designs and tendering.



Year of
Loan Number   Title             Purpose                                    Approval   Status            Comments
1730-BR        Second Feeder    To provide continuity to program begun under  1979    Closed            S110.0 million loan effective January 1980.
Roads Proiect    Ln 1207-BR, with investments in 15 States                               Physical implementation of improvement or
throughout Brazil.                                                     construction to 4,790 kam of roads and 239
bridges proceeded on schedule.
1839-BR        Second Urban     To help finance the construction of surface  1980     Closed            $159.0 million loan effective December 1980.
Transport (Porto  suburban rail mass transit in Porto Alegre, with                       Major physical components of the project were
Aleare) Proiect   ancillary aimns of more efficient urban land use                      successfully compkted within one year of project
zoning along the city's fastest growing transport                      completion date at costs 20% below appraisal
corridor and reducing fuel consumption and                              estimation. Trains became operational in 1985,
traffic congestion.                                                    although with trip demand lower than forecast.
1965-BR        Third Urban      To finance investments in ten urban centers  1981     Closed            $90.0 million loan effective October 1981.
Transport Proiect  throughout Brazil. Overall objective was to                           Project was completed in five years instead of the
improve transport conditions in urban areas as                         three years estimated at appraisal. Delays caused  UL
set out in HI National Development Plan. Key                           by absenee of detailed designs and EBTU's
PROPAV component aimed at low cost paving                               failure to appraise and process sub-project
of bus routes in urban areas. Reorganization of                        proposals in accordance with agrced schedule.
the Brazilian Urban Transport Company
(EBTU) improve its operating efficiency was
included as a project component.
2062-BR        Northwest Region  To construct a major highway in the region, as  1981  Closed           $240.0 million loan effective April 1982.
Intezated        well as the institutional strengthening of the                          Construction of the Campinas-Ariquimes (Cuiabf-
Develovment      Rond6nia State Highway Department.                                      Porto Velho) highway, the main project
Proeram: First                                                                           component proceeded well. Start-up difficulties
Phase: Hinhway                                                                           experienoed with strengthening program of
Proiect                                                                                  Rond6nia Highway Department. Technical
assistance provided under the project helped
improve performance.
2446-BR        VII Federal      A soctoral loan to help rehabilitate the federal   1984  Closed         $210.0 million loan effective November 1984.
Highwavs Proiect highway system with support for safety and                              Satisfactory progress made towards fulfillment of
highway research programs.                                             project objectives.
2563-BR        Federal Railwav   To provide assistance to RFFSA in the     1985       On-going          $200.0 million loan effective October 1985,
Export Corridor  impkmentation of a set of action plans and                              currently 53% disbursed. Projet has experienced
programs aimed at its financial rehabilitation                          delays caused by financial and instiutional
and improved commercial performance                                     problems.



Ycar of
Loan Number   Title             Purpose                                  Approval   Status            Comments
2822-BR        Fourth Urban     Aimed at improving urban transport systems in  1987  On-going         S100.0 million loan effective July 1987.
Tr nswrt Proiect the nine metropolitan areas of Brazil, as wel as                     Although scheduled for completion Decembcr
conserving energy consumption. Institutional                          1992, loan was closed prematurely folowing the
strengthening and introduction of better                             extinction of the principal executing agency,
financial management were among other key                             EBTU in 1989.
objectives.
2830-BR        Sao Paulo       For the construction, rehabilitation and periodic  1987  On-going     $174.0 million loan effective December 1987,
Hiehwav         maintenance of about 5,100 km of state                                69% disbursed to date.
Manaeement      highways in Sio Paulo. The first Bank
Proiect         financed project to concentrate exclusively upon
a state highway network.
2857-BR        FEPASA Railway Policy and institutional development action  1987     On-going          $100.0 million loan effective July 1987, with
Rehabilitation  programs and an investment component for the                          79% disbursed to date.                          0
Proiect         Sio Paulo State Railway.
2941-BR        Ports Technical   Aimed to help reform Brazil's port system  1988    Closed            $20.0 million loan effective
Assistance Proiect through technical assistance to the National                       October 1988. Premature closing in December
Ports Holding Company (PORTOBRAS) and                                 1990 folowing the extinction of the borrower
technology tranfer to the Hydraulic Research                          PORTOBRAS. 81.5% of the loan was canceled.
Instkut (INPH)
3169-BR        Highw-as        To modermize the sub-sector through helping to  1991  On-going         $310.0 milion loan effective July 1991. Project
Manaeement and  re-define the federal highway network,                                still in early stage of implementation with 20% of
Rehabilitation  strengthen the coordinating and policy role of                        the loan disbursed.
zoXict          the National Highway Department (DNER),
improve complance with environmental
sandards and finance maintenance,
rehabiffitation and improvement of roads in
major tansport corridors.



Year of
Loan Number   Title             Purpose                                  Approval  Status            Comments
3547-BR3548-  State Hiehwav    To check the deterioration of the state road  1992   On-going         $88.0 miUion loan, approved in December 1992.
BR             Manaeement      networks of Santa Catarina and Alagoas and                            Project in early stage of implementation.
proieot         improve their condition by (a) ensuring
adequate priority and funding for rehabilitation
and maintenance; (b) designing and
implementing appropriate strategies and
programs; (c) strengthening the DER
maintenance capabilities; and (d) developing
and improving compliance with environmental
standards for state roads.
3557-BR        Sao Paulo       To implement the rehabilitation of stations and   1992  On-going       $125.0 million loan, effective April 1992.
Metrorolitan    the construction of transfer points; to establish                     Project in early stage of implementation.
Transport       organizational reforms for improved cost
Decentralization   recovery; to operationalize multi-modal and
Proicot         tariff integration; to identify an investment
program to consolidate the rehabilitation and
decentralization of Sao Paulo, and to study
different management alternatives for
improving the operating efficiency of FEPASA
Metropolitan Train and the municipal owned
bus systems.






28
Table 3.2: Project Timetabl
Item               Date Planned    Date Revised       Actual Date
- Identification      05/81              -               05/81
- Preparation         05/81              -                05/81
- Appraisal Mission   02/82              -               02/82
- Loan Negotiations   05/82              -               05/82
- Board Approval      06/82              -               06/82
- Loan Signature      12/82              -                12/82
- Loan Effectiveness  06/83              -                06/83
- Loan Closing        06/89              -                12/89
- Loan Completion     12/89              -                12/89



29
Table 3.3: Proiect Implementation
Indicator               Appraisal Estimate                      Actual Estimate
Proiect PEMaration
1. Identification of              3 months                     6.5 months 4
Sub-Projects. Presentation
and Review of Applications.
2. Feasibility Studies.           4 months                      7 months '
3. Appraisal, Review and          5 months                      5 months
Approval of Studies and
Sub-projects.
4. Sub-loan Preparation.          3 months                      2.5 months
5. Sub-loan approval by           3 months                      8 months6
Brazil's Central Bank
Sub-Total    1.25 years                    2.4 years
Proiecta Imlementation
6. Detailed Engineering           1.75 years                    n.a. 7
7. Execution of Works             3 years                       n.a. I
TOTAL        6 years                       6.5 years
Difference resulting from the fact that some States were inclined to use the resources for higher
classes of roads thereby inducing lengthy discussions and delaying the process of priorities selection.
Difference resulting from the fact that some sub-borrowers tended to expand the scope of feasibility
studies, actually carrying out too detailed engineering designs, at this stage.
a Delay arising from difficulties incurred by some States in obtaining final approvals from BNDES and
the Brazil's Central Bank because of either their insufficient financial capacities or current running
debts.
7 Not assessed numerically but believed to be in line with Appraisal estimate and standard practice in
Brazil (approximately one year).
In view of delays occurred in Project Preparation and yet little overrun on total implementation
period, the pace of construction was satisfactory, ranging probably between 3 and 3.5 years.



30
Table 3.4: Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of US dollars)
Bank Fiscal Year:             19m   12L  im     198  .12i  I28    199
Appraisal:                    16.3  19.1  41.4  88.1  134.5  150.7  154.0
Actual:                       16.3  16.3  28.3  57.8  96.3  130.6  138.3
Actual as % of
Appraisal                    100%   85%   68%   66%   72%   87%   90%
Note:
Date of Final Disbursement: December 31, 1989
Disbursement Profles
D I SBURSEMENT PROF I LES
WA ActLaI
ISOO  O-II |   ^
150 
140-
130 
120 
110 
i   '00
so 
so 
o     ~~~40-
20-
20-
1U.3   1364   153    Ion.  19es   1se   lsow
llIuca I Yea
a Appr-alal  0. Actual



31
Table 3.5: Project Costs and Financing
3.5A: Proiect Costs
(US$ million)
Local  Appraisl  TOTAL    Local   Revised    TOTAL      Local    Actual   TOTAL
Foreign                    Foreign                      Foreign
Construction, Improvement
and rehabilitation of roads    334.0   163.2    497.2  -      -         -       330.0    161.2    491.2
and malntenance up-grading
TOTAL                   337.4   164.9    502.3       -        -         -       330.0    161.2    491.2
3.5B: Proiec Financiny
(USS million)
Soure                        Appraisal           (%)        Revised    1%1         Acnjal        %)
IBRD                            154.0         30.6%             -       -           139.6        28.4%
BNDES                           178.8         35.6%             -       -           140.5        28.6%
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT              46.0           9.2%             -       -            24.6        5.0%
STATES AND MUNICIPAUTIES    123.5             24.6%             -       -           186.5       38.0%
TOTAL:                         501          100.0%                                 491.2        100.0%



32
Table 3.6: Project Results
3.6A: Direct Benefits
Estimate at
Appraisal Estimate                   Completion Date
Indicators                 February/i 98                         Dec/31/89
Feeder Road Improved       8,000 km                                 9,950 Km
Construction of Bridges    6,712 m                                  7,391 m
3.6B: Economic ImDact
Economic rates of return were not calculated at the completion of the Program (ack of data on traffic
and agricultural growth). However, for Sub-projects to be eligible or acceptable under the Program,
the required minimum economic rate of return was set at 12% and those which were actually
implemented have been shown prior to approval to yield rates of return which have generally ranged
between 13% and 30% confirming previous assessments made during the First and Second Projects.
As no overrun on investments costs occurred in this Program and as it is probable that the
improvements carried out had a positive impact on both agricultural production and traffic volumes, it
is assumed that the ex-post economic rate of return of the Program is higher than 12%.



33
Table 3.7: Status of Covenant
Loan A-t
Section            Subject                               Comments
2.01(b)            BNDES to open Special Account in      compliance
Central Bank.
3.02(b)            BNDES and MT to enter into Subsidiary  compliance
Agreement.
3.02(b)(iii)       DNER to Maintain existing Feeder      compliance
Roads Working Group.
3.03               MT, DNER, BNDES to operate joint      compliance
Steering Committee.
3.04               Above plan of action to be put into
effect by March 31, 1984.
3.4                MT to furnish by December 31, 1983 a   compliance with delay. Towards the end
statement of policy and plan of action  of the Program, in 1988, a number of
for the execution of maintenance     reports and actions plans (PNMRE)
programs.                            pertaining to States road maintenance have
been prepared by MT and are now being
3.4                 Above plan of action to be put into  implemented with Bank's support (State
effect by March 31, 1984.            Highway Projects)
3.05               MT to fwunish by December 31, 1983 a   non-compliance, but although a formal
statement of policy with respect to  statment of Policy was not provided,
feeder road investments and a plan of  GOB did actually harmoaiz the feeder
action for harmonizing feeder road   road program by tuminatg AGROVIAS
programs.                            Progam which was essentially grants
transferred to the States.
Proioct A=omen
2.07               BNDES to furnish by March 31, 1983 a   compliance
draft of the design of a management
information system to be established by
June 30, 1983 and to be put into
operation by September 30, 1983.
2.08               BNDES to furnish by March 31, 1983 a   compliance
revised draft of the Operational Manual
and by June 30, 1983 the Operational
Manual.
2.09               BNDES to furnish quarterly reports    compliance
including schedule of project
commitments and disbursements.
3.02               BNDES to furnish six months after the    compliance
end of each fiscal year, audited financial
statements of project accounts and
auditor's report.



34
Table 3.8: Use of Bank Resources
Table 8A. Staf fInuts
Bank Fiscal Year:
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Stage of Project
Cycle
Through Appraisal    33.5
Appraisal through  41.9
Board Approval
Board Approval to   7.4    16.2
Loan Effectiveness
Supervision                 25.0   11.6   12.3    8.5    11.9    6.5    3.1    3.1    0.4
Completion                                                                                        6.2    3.2
TOTAL               82.8    41.2    11.6   12.3    8.5    11.9    6.5    3.1    3.1    0.4    6.2    3.2






35
Table 8B. Missions
Stage of Project  Month/ No. of Days in   Specialization    Performance  Types of      Comments
Cycle             Year Persona   field  Representedl/  rating statusa/    Problems2/
Through Appraisal (-02/82)
05/81      3      4       HE; TEc                                  Identification
02/82      5     21   HE; TEc; Ec                                     Appraisal
Appraisal through Board Preentation (02/82-12/82)
06/82      1     10            HE                                 Post-Appraisal
11/82     2      10       HE; TEc               1                   Suprvision
Board Approval through Loan Effectiveness (12/82-06/83)
01/83      3      5       HE; TEc                                    Supervision
Supervision (06/83-)
10/83      1      7            HE               2 M,F,P             Supervision
04/83      2     14       HE; TEc               2 M,F,P              Suprvsion
03/85      1      2            HE               2 F,P,M              Supervision
02/86      3      3       HE; TEc               3     M              Supervision
06/87      1      5           TEc
10/87      4      3   HE; TEc; FA               3     M             Supervision
06/88      3      5       HE; TEc
02/89      4      7   HE; TEc; FA
1/ TEc = Transport Economist; Ec = Economist; HE = Highway Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst;
Z/ 1 = minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems
2/ (Type of Problem) F - financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P - political.



