Document of
The World Bank                           FILE Cop
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3418-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$154.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
November 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of October 31, 1982
Cr$ 1   =   US$.004594
US$ 1   =   Cr$217.63
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AM           Addendum to the Manual de Rodovias Vicinais
(Addendum to the Feeder Roads Manual)
BNDES        Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Economic and Social Development Bank)
DER          Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Highway Department)
DNER         Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(Federal Highway Department)
GEIPOT       Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
(Federal Transport Planning Agency)
ORTN         Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
Adjustable National Treasury Bonds (used as basis for
monetary correction)
SEPLAN       Secretaria de Planejamento
(Federal Planning Secretariat)
POLONORDESTE Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
POLONOROESTE Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Brazil's Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:               US$154.0 million equivalent, including front-end fee
of US$2,275,862.
Terms:                Repayment in 13 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries and
Relending Terms:   The Borrower would make available the proceeds of the
loan to Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e
Social (BNDES) on the same terms as those of the
loan. BNDES would make sub-loans in cruzeiros to the
States, the Federal Territories, the Federal District,
State Highway Departments, municipal road consortia
and, possibly, municipalities for 8 to 13 years,
including 1 to 4 years of grace. A portion of each
sub-loan would consist of the proceeds of the Bank's
loan and its principal amount would be adjusted for
the value of the US dollar, so that the foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the beneficiaries; the
other portion, consisting of BNDES' own resources,
would be adjusted on the basis of ORTN. The interest
rate on the Bank-financed portion would be uniform for
all beneficiaries and the same as that on the Bank's
loan, so that the interest risk would rest with the
beneficiaries; the BNDES-financed portion would bear
different sets of interest rates for low-income States
and Territories, for middle-income States and the
Federal District, and for the State of Sao Paulo.
Project Description: The proposed project consists of:  (a) the provision
of subloans for the construction, improvement and
rehabilitation of about 8,000 Km of feeder roads,
included in the National Feeder Roads Program
administered by BNDES; (b) the up-grading of road
maintenance capacity of the States and municipalities;
and (c) the strengthening of planning and management
functions of institutions involved in carrying out the
Program.
The project would contribute to agricultural
development through easier and cheaper access to
markets for both inputs and farm products. It would
also enhance better balanced economic progress in
frontier areas by providing transport links between
the new settlements and the trunk road network.



- ii -
Risks:                Delays in the execution of the project arising from
the large number of participating agencies and from
possible changes in State and municipal administration
following the November 1982 elections. Proposed
institutional and policy measures should reduce these
risks considerably.
Estimated Cost:                                    -       US$ million-----
Local   Foreign   Total
Construction, improvement
and rehabilitation of roads 1/   263.2    126.8    390.0
Maintenance up-grading 2/               2.7       1.3      4.0
Base Cost 3/                 265.9    128.1    394.0
Contingencies 4/                       71.5     34.5    106.0
Front-end fee 5/                       -         2.3       2.3
Total Cost 6/                337.4    164.9    502.3
1/   Includes related final engineering and consultant
supervision.
2/   Studies and training of staff.
3/   At November 1982 prices.
4/   Price contingencies only, based on Bank forecast of
international inflation.
5/   Amount rounded off.
6/   Includes about 15% in local taxes.
Financing Plan:                      --------US$ million------
Local     Foreign   Total        %
Federal Government               46.0         -        46.0      9
States and municipalities       123.5         -       123.5     25
BNDES                           167.9        10.9    178.8      35
IBRD                              -         154.0    154.0      31
TOTAL                       337.4       164.9    502.3    100
Estimated
Disbursements:
-US$ million----------------------
Bank FY          83       84      85       86      87       88      89
Annual         16.3       2.8    22.3      46.7   46.4      16.2   3.3
Cumulative    16.3      19.1    41.4       88.1  134.5    150.7 154.0



- iii -
Rate of
Return:    A minimum expected economic rate of return of 12% is required
for investment in feeder roads under the project; experience
with the first two feeder roads projects shows that estimated
rates of return range between 12% and 30%.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:    Report No. 3889b-BR, dated November22 , 1982.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRIUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$154.0
million to help finance a third feeder roads project. The loan would have
a term of 13 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a country
economic up-date was in Brazil in May-June 1982; its report is expected to
be available in late 1982. Part I of this report as well as the country
data sheets attached as Annex I reflect the findings and projections of
that mission.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has
had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-
payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, con-
tinued expansion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings.
Success on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and
balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of
living standards and better income distribution. In mid-November of this
year, Brazil held its first major elections since the mid-1960s.
Opposition candidates have captured the governorships of several key
states, but no immediate impact is expected on national economic policies.
Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted
to cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and



tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7
billion in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal
increase in exports and of a reduction in imports. Over the entire 1974-80
period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase of
imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumulation
of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the compression of real
imports, and the intensification of inflationary pressures increased the
economy's vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum prices
and the rise in interest rates which occurred in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over
those two years, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach
US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation
and domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth
to stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which
had lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage capital
inflow. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates charged on
official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated tax incen-
tive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial transactions
tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was raised from 15%
to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo particularly hard hit by
high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer durables
purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8 billion
in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current account
deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2 billion) in
net interest payments abroad.  Contributing to the trade surplus was a 33%
increase in manufactured exports and the further contraction of petroleum
imports. International reserves rose US$600 million, to the equivalent of
4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6 months coverage at the end of
1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The policy measures introduced and
the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement served to sustain the
confidence of the international bankers, and no problems were experienced
in raising the US$10 billion in required net borrowing during 1981.



- 3-
1982 and Prospects for the Future
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the heretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by more than 10% through the first eight months of
the year. Although imports are also down, the earlier expected trade
surplus has evaporated, and an approximately balanced trade account now
appears likely. Some relief will come from the recent decline of LIBOR
rates, but the current account deficit for 1982 will total about US$14
billion. Meanwhile, inflation will probably remain at just below 100% for
the year. Some signs of an incipient, yet fragile, economic recovery had
become apparent by mid-year, but GDP growth for the year as a whole will
most likely be nil.
9.        The outlook for 1983 is for continued recession.  The Government
has indicated its intention to continue its pursuit of restrictive economic
measures in order to meet its debt servicing obligations. A major policy
objective for 1983 is to generate an increased trade surplus (with the
indicated target set at US$6 billion), thereby reducing its current account
balance of payments deficit and its external borrowing requirements.
Measures have been announced to reduce the consolidated federal public
deficit, restrain monetary and credit expansion, and temporarily impose
stricter, emergency-oriented, import restrictions.
10.       Since 1973 Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports.  Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to explore Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation, particularly through pricing policies.1/ As a
result of these, and other, policies, domestic gasoline consumption was
reduced by 20% between 1979 and 1981. By the same token, domestic
petroleum production increased by 41% from March 1980 to March 1982.
Despite these encouraging results, dependence on imported energy remains
formidable. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports totaled US$11.3
billion (51% of total imports) in 1981. Comparable oil imports are
expected to be around US$10.5 billion in 1982.
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and more
realistic prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years. The
development of domestic energy sources, export promotion, agriculture, and
the stimulation of domestic savings will continue to require priority
attention.
1/ Retail prices for most petroleum derivatives are well above
international levels. Thus, gasoline (premium) is 364% above the
international price; diesel oil 280% and fuel oil prices 149% above the
international level (CIF Santos).



- 4 -
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.       With reasonably satisfactory access to external capital, Brazil
may aim for an average growth rate of about 3% per annum in 1982-87, with a
further GDP decrease in 1983 followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually
increasing growth through 1986. Such a growth rate should be compatible
with a falling current account deficit through 1986. However, a key
question relates to the continued availability of international commercial
bank lending. The combination of high debt service and a high share of
petroleum in total imports leaves the economy vulnerable, and this may be
expected to persist for the immediate future.
13.       Gross M&LT borrowing requirements for 1982 are estimated to total
about US$17.5 billion (about US$10.5 billion net), and through the first
eight months of the year Brazil had little difficulty in meeting its
borrowing targets. In September, with the events accompanying the Mexican
debt crisis, resistance on the part of the international commercial banks
was encountered in meeting such targets.  A reduction in Brazil's
international reserves resulted, followed by successful efforts to increase
short-term borrowing. By mid-November M&LT international commercial bank
lending had resumed although at reduced levels. In response to the
expectations of reduced international lending, the Government has announced
measures consistent with gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings of US$10.6
billion for 1983 (a reduction of 40% relative to 1982). Such borrowings
imply projected net M&LT borrowings of only US$5.4 billion, constituting an
8.9% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the event of
greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve levels
and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. Beyond 1983
projected net M&LT borrowings fall through 1986. Consequently, the net
debt service ratio is expected to decline from 63% in 1982 to approximately
48% in 1986.
14.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error.
Also, the present scenario depends on Brazil's ability to reduce the
consolidated public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports, and
attain continued access to international commercial bank lending. Despite
difficulties, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and
relatively resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy,
but policy-makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing
circumstances in the past. The recent announcement of the intended
painful, yet necessary, economic policy measures for 1983 is a further
indication of the Government's resolve and capability in coping with its
economic difficulties under adverse international circumstances. Thus,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
amounts indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
15.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security



- 5 -
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much government attention. Increased government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services.2/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are some indications, based upon
preliminary estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial
living standard and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable
absolute real income gains were realized by all income decile groups.
Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seem to have been left behind by the
rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By September 30, 1982 the Bank had made 116 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,998.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 62 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, and US$471.5 million in
FY82. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1982 was US$3,401.9
million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, seven loans totaling
US$722.1 million have been approved. So far in FY83 two loans totaling
US$313.4 million have been approved, US$304.5 million for an iron ore
mining project in the Sera dos Carajas and US$8.9 million for a project
to help finance the preparation of future investment projects in the
metropolitan regions of Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil. Work
is advanced on a second development banking project, on a forestry project
in the state of Minas Gerais, on the third phase project of the Northwest
region development program, and on a sector loan for water and sewerage.
18.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and
disbursed is estimated to have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. The
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated at 4.2% while its share
in total debt service has remained constant at 2%. These percentages are
not expected to rise significantly in the next five years.
19.       As of September 30, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil
totalled US$851.0 million, of which US$572.5 million had been sold, repaid
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$278.5 million, US$211.5 million
represent loans and US$67.0 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments
as of September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



-6-
Lending Strategy
20.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are inter-dependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Loans for water supply and sewerage
projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in the northeast and in the south,
loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and
services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in
medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Previous loans
for nutrition research and development, primary education, vocational
training, agricultural research and extension, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the Northeast.
21.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project, which seeks to strengthen the planning and management
functions of federal and state agencies in charge of feeder road
construction and maintenance. Loans for urban development, electric power,
railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and
extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage, and for alcohol
and biomass energy development also have important institution-building
objectives.
22.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and
petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale
efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-
payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project
addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
23.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows needed to sustain growth and achieve employment creation
and regional development objectives. Continued lending by the Bank in
Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as a sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to contribute to the country's
development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions



than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations, for about US$560 million, have been arranged
and signed with private financial institutions and several further
operations are in preparation.
PART III - THE FEEDER ROADS SUBSECTOR
Brazil's Road Network
24.       The large area of Brazil, combined with an abundance of agricul-
tural land and mineral resources, has made transportation a crucial element
in the development of the economy. Road transport is the dominant mode,
carrying 70% of freight and 97% of passenger traffic. Brazil has about 1.4
million km of roads; of these 6% are federal highways, 9% are state roads,
and 85% are municipal roads. The federal highways, which form the backbone
of the interstate network, extend all over the country and more than half
of their total length is paved. State trunk and collector roads complement
the federal system. The 1.2 million km of municipal roads are mostly low
standard seasonal feeder roads and tracks. They are better developed and
maintained in the southern and southeastern regions than in the sparsely
populated North and Center-West. The Northeastern region takes an inter-
mediate position and has a road density close to the country's average of
about 150km per 1,000km2.
25.       The federal and state road network has been mostly built since
1946, when the National Highway Fund was created, and it has long been
growing at an annual rate of 4%. During the early 1970's, road investment
represented about 15% of the country's fixed capital formation and was
concentrated on federal highways and state trunk roads. It is only
recently that construction of feeder roads has assumed significant propor-
tions.
26.       Since 1975, the Federal Government's transport policy has been
influenced by its desire to reduce dependence on imported oil. Investments
in river transport have been made in the southern States, and electric-
powered passenger rail systems have been expanded. In road transport,
emphasis has shifted from construction to rehabilitation and maintenance of
the existing network, and to the building of feeder roads.
Investment in Feeder Roads
27.       The Federal Government uses three separate approaches to feeder
road construction. The National Feeder Roads Program, launched in 1967, is
administered by the National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES)
with the technical assistance of the Federal Highway Department (DNER).
BNDES serves as a conduit for federal grants and lends funds for feeder
roads projects to the States, the Federal Territories, the Federal
District,. State Highway Departments (DERs) and municipal road consortia,
which are supposed to prepare and execute them following selection criteria
and technical norms laid down in the Manual de Rodovias Vicinais,drawn up
by BNDES and DNER in 1979 and endorsed by the Bank. Feeder roads are
further included in Special Programs for regional and local rural



-8-
development, such as POLONORDESTE, POLONOROESTE, and others. Several
Federal Ministries, and a number of federal and regional agencies, are
involved in the administration of these programs. The third approach is
the Agrovias Program, a feeder roads program created at the end of 1981,
with a Cr$25 billion budget for 1982. This program provides contributions
in grant form for the construction or improvement of federal, state or
municipal roads.
28.       The federal programs largely complement one another.  The
National Feeder Roads Program is mainly oriented toward low standard state
and municipal roads supporting agricultural and rural development. Special
Programs generally include minimum standard farm-to-market roads. The
Agrovias Program would be essentially directed to higher standard roads
linked to the federal highway network. Because of the number of agencies
involved, selection criteria, preparation requirements and financing
arrangements vary widely. The Ministry of Transport is aware of the fact
that this complicates planning at the state level and proposes to take
steps to harmonize its feeder roads activities (para. 60).
29.       Road maintenance is a major issue in Brazil.  Only a small
portion of the municipal network is actually being maintained. The esti-
mated annual cost of adequately maintaining the huge 1.2 million km network
would be in excess of US$1 billion equivalent. While it would be justified
on economic grounds to rehabilitate 1/3 of the municipal network, the
expense would reach about US$6 billion equivalent on the basis of a
conservatively estimated average cost of US$15,000 per km. The municipal
institutions have limited financial and administrative capacity to deal
with a task of such dimensions. Most of them rely on DERs to handle the
maintenance of the important rural roads through contracts; but many DERs,
particularly in the poorer States, also need to upgrade their maintenance
standards. Some municipalities have, with the assistance of the States,
established municipal road consortia which, however, were until recently
more concerned with building roads than maintaining them.   It is a
situation which can only be solved over a long period; the proposed project
will endeavor to deal with it (para. 59, 63 and 64).
30.       Efficient road maintenance systems for the whole state and muni-
cipal network could not be established in less than 15 or 20 years and
would require Federal Government assistance to ensure adequate financing
and the dissemination of appropriate technology. As its responsibility for
the feeder roads sub-sector expanded, the Ministry of Transport has come to
recognize the need for federal assistance to the States and municipali-
ties. To begin with, the Ministry has committed itself to prepare a state-
ment of policy and a plan of action for carrying out state maintenance
programs, and to put the plan of action into effect by March 31, 1984
(para. 63).
Planning and Financing
31.       In 1974, the DERs made a first attempt toward feeder road plan-
ning by preparing state and municipal road master plans under DNER coordin-
ation, but without sufficient regard to development needs and prospects of
other sectors. Since 1976, BNDES and DNER have introduced selection
criteria and evaluation methods, which have led to the execution of better
justified projects. However, there is still room for improving the
coordination of feeder roads programs with development plans for
agriculture.



32.       Road expenditures in Brazil are supported by road user charges,
general revenue appropriations, and domestic and foreign borrowing. The
road user charges are a fuel tax, a road transport tax levied on inter-
state and inter-municipality freight and passenger movements, a motor
vehicle tax and road tolls. The allocation of the fuel tax among the
Federation, the States and the municipalities is based on a system of
quotas which differentiates between the size and population of the admin-
istrative entity, its fuel consumption and its oil production. The bulk of
the road transport tax goes to the federal budget. The proceeds of the
motor vehicle tax are distributed among the Federal Government (55%) and
the States (45%). In the past, the proceeds of road user charges had been
earmarked for road construction, improvement and maintenance, and other
related expenditures. While the funds allocated to the States and munici-
palities continue to be earmarked, the earmarking of the federal share was
eliminated recently.
33.       States and municipalities finance road expenditures with revenue
shares in road user charges, their own resources, federal contributions to
Special Programs, and domestic and external borrowing. The States' own
resources originate mainly from the value added tax, while those of the
municipalities are derived from a share in that tax and from a tax levied
on services. The DERs receive funds from DNER for maintaining sections of
the federal highway network and from the municipalities for maintaining
municipal roads; they also borrow from BNDES and the regional development
banks, and from the international lending institutions. Although there
were shifts among the sources of funds, DERs' revenues remained constant in
real terms in the period 1976-79, enabling them to sustain their total
expenditure at an annual level of about US$1.5 billion equivalent, of which
more than US$1 billion equivalent for capital expenditure and about US$450
million equivalent for recurrent expenditures.
The Institutions
34.       Until 1982, the role of the Ministry of Transport in feeder roads
development was limited to the administration of feeder road components of
the Special Programs. The Ministry reviewed the investment programs of the
States, recommended them to SEPLAN for allocation of federal funds,
followed up on project execution, and authorized payments to state execut-
ing agencies. The elimination of the earmarking of the federal share of
road user charges and the stricter Federal Government control over public
expenditure have recently enhanced the role of the Ministry. In early
1982, it assumed the responsibility for allocating federal grants to BNDES
for the National Feeder Roads Program and for promoting the activities of
the Agrovias Program. The administrative tasks related to the Special
Programs are being performed by a Special Programs Unit, recently
transferred to the Transport Coordination Secretariat subordinated directly
to the Secretary General of the Ministry. The deepening involvement of the
Ministry in feeder roads development will necessitate the strengthening of
the competent, and hitherto sufficient, staff of the Unit.
35.       First established in 1952, the BNDES is at present an autonomous
public company, which falls under the jurisdiction of SEPLAN but has its
own juridical personality. The Federal Government uses the BNDES as one of
the principal instruments of public investment policy. At the end of 1981,



- 10 -
BNDES total assets exceeded the equivalent of US$16 billion. The most
important source of funds accruing to BNDES are contributions to the
Government and private sector employees' benefit fund. The BNDES board is
composed of the President and ten members, all appointed by the President
of the Republic. The President also heads the Management, consisting of
five Directors appointed by the responsible Minister. The Directors are in
charge of nine Directorates, each headed by a Superintendent. The staff of
BNDES numbers about 1,500.
36.       The administration of the National Feeder Roads Program has
recently been transferred from the Infrastructure Department to the
Agriculture Department of the Projects II Directorate. This reflects the
evolution of the Program toward low-standard rural roads and the policy of
BNDES to foster an integrated approach to rural development. A specialized
Feeder Roads Working Group, staffed with twenty well-qualified profes-
sionals, operates within the Department. It constitutes an important and
effective instrument for appraising and supervising feeder roads projects.
37.       The DNER, headed by a Director General appointed by the President
of the Republic, is primarily responsible for administering the federal
highway network, but has been involved in the execution of the National
Feeder Roads Program since 1970. DNER operations are country-wide; it is
represented in each State by a Federal Highway District. The Districts are
structured into local residences, which are in charge of construction and
maintenance. In the context of the National Feeder Roads Program, DNER is
now responsible, together with BNDES, for the review of the technical and
economic merit of the sub-projects submitted to the latter, for the assess-
ment of State and municipal capabilities, and for monitoring project execu-
tion. It also reviews bidding procedures and contract awards. A Feeder
Roads Working Group, reporting to the Executive Director, is entrusted with
these duties. Because of the additional workload arising from the creation
of the Agrovias Program, DNER has strengthened the Working Group to further
improve its capacity to appraise sub-projects, and intends to decentralize
the project supervision by delegating it to the residences.
38.       The beneficiaries of BNDES loans made under the National Feeder
Roads Program are the States, the Territories, the Federal District, the
DERs and the municipal road consortia. The municipalities are recognized
as qualified borrowers by BNDES, but so far none of them has applied
because of limited financial and institutional capacity. Each State has a
DER responsible for the construction and maintenance of its road network.
The DERs are generally subordinated to the State Secretary for Public Works
or Transport and organized on the pattern of DNER. They cooperate with the
Secretariats for Transport and Planning in the preparation of road master
plans for the State, and have more recently joined with state agricultural
agencies in preparing and carrying out integrated rural development
projects. Currently, the National Feeder Roads Program aims at a multi-
sectoral approach to feeder road planning and, in particular, at associat-
ing state agricultural agencies with the definition of feeder roads
projects. As a rule, contracts are let by the DERs for construction,
improvement and rehabilitation works, while maintenance is done by force
account.



- 11 -
39.       Municipal road consortia, incorporated as joint stock companies
under State law, have evolved as a means for municipalities to pool their
resources and technical skills for the purpose of building integrated muni-
cipal road systems. In general, their shares are held by the State, or the
DER, and the municipalities, and their finances are under the control of a
fiscal council set up according to specific State laws on corporations.
The technical competence in planning, design and supervision of projects
varies from one consortium to another. In most cases, the consortia are
not capable of executing significant works and have to contract them out.
However, they are acquiring the ability to maintain municipal roads and
they procure maintenance equipment in bulk for the participating munici-
palities.
Past Bank Loans for Feeder Roads
40.       The Bank started lending for roads in Brazil fifteen years ago.
The first four loans, US$266 million in the aggregate, helped finance the
construction, improvement and rehabilitation of federal highways and some
state roads. Performance Audit Reports on the four projects have been
distributed to the Executive Directors. The most recent report relative to
the third and fourth loans (SecM 79-495 of January 29, 1979), concluded
that the objectives of the projects were substantially achieved, although
the fourth project showed a significant cost overrun. The projects
contributed to the successful development of the transport system.
Further, the DNER's capability for supervising construction was improved
considerably. Since 1974, Bank support shifted to the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing roads; two loans, totalling US$224 million were
made for these purposes. The first loan for secondary and feeder roads was
made in 1976, in the amount of US$55 million; the Second Feeder Roads
Project was assisted in 1979 with a loan of US$110 million. Most recently,
as part of its support for the Northwest Region Development Program, the
Bank lent US$240 million for the Northwest Highway Project, consisting of
the reconstruction of 1,084 km of a federal highway and the construction of
about 1,000 km of feeder roads. In addition, in the past ten years, the
Bank has allocated US$98 million to the construction and maintenance of
about 18,000 km of feeder roads, in the context of 15 loans made for rural
development projects.
41.       The experience with the two on-going feeder roads projects
reveals both achievements and shortcomings. Most clearly visible is the
progress in the preparation and the technical and economic appraisal of
feeder road projects by the States and the municipal consortia.   Guide-
lines for the preparation and execution of projects have been laid down in
the Manual de Rodovias Vicinais. The methodology for sub-project
appraisal, defined in the Manual and consistently used in the feasibility
studies, has led to the selection of sub-projects with estimated economic
rates of return ranging between 12% and 30%. Very beneficial as well was
the adoption of more appropriate norms for the design and construction of
feeder roads. While the first loan supported mainly the construction and
improvement of secondary roads of high standards connecting to the federal
highway network, the second was deliberately oriented toward low-cost rural
roads of simplified design. This trend was consistent with the increasing
concern within BNDES for ensuring that the roads selected for financing are
of direct benefit to the rural communities. Another achievement in the
context of past projects has been to marry the development banking
experience of BNDES with the technical expertise of DNER. The cooperation
of these two organizations in administering the National Feeder Roads
Program is being consistently strengthened.



- 12 -
42.        Inevitably, there have been some flaws in the performance.  It
took four years to commit the first loan for 16 sub-projects in 12 States;
the second loan was committed much faster, being applied to 16 sub-projects
in 15 States. Disbursements on the first loan have lagged, however. The
purchasing power of the ORTN, to which the subloans were indexed, was
shrinking throughout 1980, with the result that the States and municipal
consortia were faced with the need to contribute an increasing share of the
project cost from their often very limited resources.  In these
circumstances, the first project ground to a halt. A reformulation was
carried out in mid-1981, reducing the scope of the works. Influencing the
performance under the first two loans were also inadequately prepared
applications being presented to BNDES, insufficient contingency provisions
in BNDES sub-loans, cumbersome procurement procedures, and limited capacity
of some States and municipal consortia to diligently execute the
sub-projects. Since the reformulation of the first project, however, the
execution of both projects has progressed smoothly; and while about 45% of
the first loan remains undisbursed, the pace of disbursement of the second
loan has been fairly close to the original estimate.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was prepared by BNDES with the assistance of the
Ministry of Transport and DNER. It was appraised in January-February
1982. The proposed loan was negotiated in October 1982. The Brazilian
negotiating team was led by Dr. Carlos Roberto Cristalli of the Federal
Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN), and comprised representatives of the
Ministries of Finance and Transport, of the Secretariat for Control of
State Enterprises, of BNDES and of DNER. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Third Feeder Roads Project" (No. 3889b-BR) is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Supplementary Project Data are given in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
44.       The objectives of the proposed project are as follows:
(a) To carry out in 1983-89 construction, improvement and
rehabilitation of about 8,000 km of State and municipal roads
included in the National Feeder Roads Program;
(b) To upgrade the maintenance capacity of the States and
municipalities, and elaborate at the federal level a plan of
action to ensure the proper maintenance of feeder roads;
(c) To harmonize federal feeder roads programs; and
(d) To strengthen the planning and management functions of the
institutions involved in the execution of the National Feeder
Roads Program.



- 13 -
Execution of the Project
45.       The proposed project would include about 30 sub-projects distrib-
uted among 25 States and Territories, and the Federal District, as compared
with 16 sub-projects in 15 States being carried out under the Second Feeder
Roads Project financed by the Bank. Thus, the geographic distribution
would be much wider and would include road works in the States of Mato
Grosso and Rondonia, additional to those financed under the recent
Northwest Highway loan. The expected cost of individual sub-projects would
range from US$5 million to US$50 million equivalent.  In order to ensure
efficient execution and avoid unwarranted delays, BNDES would only consider
subloan applications for civil works scheduled to be completed within three
years (Section 2.02(a)(iv) of the draft Project Agreement). The completion
date of the project would be June 30, 1989.
46.       The sub-projects may comprise:  (i) construction of feeder roads
to the standards laid down in the Manual de Rodovias Vicinais (para. 41
above); (ii) upgrading of existing tracks or roads to specified standards,
including paving if necessary; (iii) reconditioning of deteriorated road-
ways; (iv) construction or reconstruction of bridges, drainage structures
and side ditches; (v) final engineering by consultants or beneficiaries and
construction supervision by consultants; and (vi) studies on road mainte-
nance and training in maintenance techniques.
47.       In line with the orientation of the National Feeder Roads
Program, the sub-projects would mainly include low-standard roads (i) chan-
neling agricultural products to the trunk road network, to marketing or
consumption centers, and to processing, storage and export facilities; and
(ii) providing access to commercial outlets for farm inputs and to urban
educational, health and other services. As stipulated in the Manual de
Rodovias Vicinais, the economic evaluation of the sub-projects would be
based on the vehicle operating cost savings methodology in areas where
traffic exceeds 200 vehicles/day, and on the value-added methodology in
less developed areas. To be financed by BNDES, sub-projects would have to
have an estimated economic rate of return of not less than 12%; experience
with the previous two feeder roads projects shows that rates of return are
likely to range between 12% and 30%, reaching 40% in some cases.
48.       The prospective beneficiaries would be responsible for sub-
project identification, with BNDES exercising increased influence to bring
about adequate coordination between agencies concerned with agricultural
and rural development and those in charge of road transport. Feasibility
studies would also be carried out by the beneficiaries, who would follow
criteria and norms set forth in the Manual de Rodovias Vicinais. The
Feeder Roads Working Groups at BNDES and DNER (para. 36 and 37 above) are
responsible for reviewing and analyzing proposed sub-projects on the basis
of the feasibility studies, with special attention to economic justifica-
tion, technical specifications and cost estimates, compatibility with the
objectives of the National Feeder Roads Program, and the capacity of the
prospective beneficiary to provide for proper maintenance. The Bank was
informed during loan negotiations that feasibility studies for seven
sub-projects, to be financed under the proposed loan, had been completed.



- 14 -
Three of those sub-projects will have been reviewed and analyzed by BNDES
and DNER by mid-December, and sub-loan agreements related to them would be
signed once the proposed loan has been approved. Three additional sub-loan
agreements would be signed before June 30, 1983.
49.       Prior approval by the Bank would be required for all sub-loans
to: (i) a State, a Territory, the Federal District, a State Highway
Department or a municipal road consortium and covering a sub-project
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of one million ORTN (about US$11
million); and (ii) a municipality and covering a sub-project estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of 150,000 ORTN (about US$1.7 million)
(Section 2.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
50.       Final engineering would mainly be carried out by consultants;
some designs, however, would be executed by the beneficiaries, in order to
train their staff in simplified design techniques. Contracts would be let
by the beneficiaries, but bidding procedures and contract awards would be
reviewed by DNER. Construction supervision would rest with the benefi-
ciaries, who might retain consultants; however, all civil works by force
account would be supervised by consultants. The progress of the execution
of the project would be closely monitored by BNDES and DNER.
Cost and Financing
51.       At November 1982 prices, the estimated cost of the project is
$502.3 million, including the capitalized front-end fee. Net of the
front-end fee, this corresponds to the January 1983-July 1985 tranche of
the National Feeder Roads Program. The local cost is estimated at US$337.4
million equivalent and the foreign exchange component at US$164.9 million.
The financing plan for the project includes (i) a federal grant, equivalent
to US$46 million, to be channeled to BNDES through the Transport Ministry
and to be supplemented, as needed, to maintain the federal participation in
the cost of the project at the level of about 9%; (ii) contributions by the
beneficiaries, equivalent to US$123.5 million, or 25% of the project cost;
and (iii) sub-loans, equivalent in the aggregate to US$330.5 million, to be
provided by BNDES. The sub-loans would consist of the proceeds of the
Bank's loan and BNDES' own resources. The Bank's loan would finance about
US$151.7 million (about 31%) of the project cost, or a little less than its
foreign exchange component. BNDES' own resources, to be spent on the
project, would total the equivalent of US$178.8 million (about 35% of the
project cost), of which US$167.9 million would cover local expenditure and
US$10.9 million foreign exchange expenditure.
52.       Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, expenditure on sub-projects in
any one State, Territory or the Federal District would be limited to US$50
million equivalent, with the exception of the State of Sao Paulo where not
more than US$40 million equivalent would be spent (Section 2.06 of the
draft Project Agreement). As provided in Schedule 4 to the draft Loan
Agreement, the total cost of sub-projects in any low-income State or
Federal Territory would be met to the extent of 69.8% by the funds lent by
BNDES, to the extent of 10.2% by the federal grant, and to the extent of
20% by the contributions of the State of the municipalities. In the case
of a middle-income State or the Federal District, the proportions would be



- 15 -
61.9%, 8.1% and 30%, respectively, and in the case of the State of Sao
Paulo, 54.1%, 5.9% and 40%. Thus, as has been the case under the two
previous loans for feeder roads, the low-income States would be called upon
to make a smaller contribution from their own resources and would benefit
from a larger share in the federal grant.
53.       A new feature in the financing plan would be to provide in the
amount of each sub-loan for a price contingency of not less than 20% to
cover possible overruns (Section 2.02(a)(v) of the draft Project Agreement)
and for the use -- wherever this is warranted -- of not more than 5% of a
sub-loan amount to finance studies on maintenance and training in mainte-
nance techniques (Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms
54.       The proceeds of the proposed loan, after the payment of the
front-end fee, would be made available by the Federal Government to the
BNDES on the same terms as those of the loan. BNDES would make sub-loans
in cruzeiros to the States, the Federal Territories, the Federal District,
State Highway Departments, municipal road consortia and -- possibly --
municipalities, for 8 to 13 years, including 1 to 4 years of grace. No
sub-loan would have a final maturity falling due after the last principal
payment on the Bank's loan (Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
55.       A portion of each cruzeiro sub-loan would consist of the proceeds
of the Bank's loan and the principal amount of this portion would be
adjusted periodically for the value of the US dollar, so that the foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the beneficiaries. The interest rate on
the Bank-financed portion would be uniform for all beneficiaries and the
same as that on the Bank's loan, being adjusted in line with the standard
variable interest rate of the Bank (Schedule to the draft Project
Agreement).
56.       The other portion of each sub-loan, representing BNDES' own
resources, would be periodically adjusted on the basis of ORTN. However,
this portion would bear different sets of interest rates, determined by the
income level of the borrowing States. Seventeen low income States and the
two Territories (and the DERs and municipal consortia located within their
boundaries) would pay interest at the rate of 5% to 7%; five middle-income
States and the Federal District would be charged 6% to 8% by BNDES; and the
interest rate of 8% to 10% would apply in the State of Sao Paulo (Schedule
to the draft Project Agreement). It is the intention of the BNDES staff to
charge interest closer to the lower limit of the range, but the rate
proposed by the staff is always subject to review, and possible increase,
by the BNDES Board. The cost of a blend of funds bearing interest at the
rate charged, respectively, by the Bank and the BNDES, with the federal
funds in grant form, corresponds to the cost of loans being currently made
by BNDES in some other lines of activity.
Disbursement and Procurement
57.       While the commitment of funds for the project is expected to last
about two and a half years, beginning in early 1983, the disbursement of
the loan proceeds would take about six years, ending in mid-1989.
Disbursements would start slowly because of the time required to prepare



- 16 -
sub-projects.  Taking into account a one-year time lag, the estimated
disbursement schedule is broadly in line with a disbursement profile for
Bank-financed highway projects in Latin America. The proceeds of the
Bank's loan would be disbursed in respect of civil works (and of final
engineering carried out directly by beneficiaries, in instances where it
would significantly improve their technical qualifications) against
certified statements of expenditure. Disbursements by the Bank would cover
about one-third of project expenditures eligible for reimbursement
(Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement). In order to shorten the interval
during which BNDES would finance with its own resources the Bank's portion
of the sub-loans, the Bank would -- once the proposed loan has been made
effective and at the request of the Borrower -- deposit up to US$14 million
in a Special Account at the Central Bank of Brazil and subsequently
replenish it with amounts equal to expenditures incurred by BNDES and
eligible for reimbursement by the Bank (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       Procurement of civil works contracts would follow local competi-
tive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank and have been
used under the two previous loans for feeder roads. Foreign contractors
are permitted to bid under these procedures. However, foreign construction
firms are unlikely to be interested in relatively small, low-standard road
works dispersed throughout the country. In instances where competitive
bidding has proved unsuccessful, the Bank would finance civil works carried
out by force account if their cost were estimated at not more than
US$250,000 equivalent; procurement by force account for any single
sub-project would not exceed the aggregate amount of US$1 million
equivalent (Section 2.02(a)(iii) of the draft Project Agreement).
Institutional and Policy Features
59.       The Ministry of Transport recognizes (i) the need to define
federal investment policy for the feeder roads sub-sector and (ii) the need
to improve the maintenance of feeder roads and make expenditure on it
consistent with the investment in road building and with the available
resources.  The institutional and policy features of the proposed project
reflect this.
60.       The existence of three types of federal programs for feeder roads
construction, administered by a number of agencies at the federal, regional
and state levels, calls for coordination and adequate control (paras. 27
and 28 above). Consequently, the Federal Government has decided to prepare
a statement of policy with respect to investment in feeder roads and to
elaborate a plan of action for harmonizing the federal feeder roads
programs and the procedures for funding them; these documents would be
presented to the Bank by the end of 1983 for review and comment (Section
3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the Ministry of Transport
would develop and introduce an information system for federal feeder roads
programs to enable its General Secretariat to exercise central control over
their execution.



- 1 7 -
61.       With regard to the National Feeder Roads Program and, in particu-
lar, to the proposed project, a Subsidiary Agreement, to be concluded by
the Ministry of Transport, BNDES and DNER, would determine the respective
responsibilities of the three parties (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The execution of the Subsidiary Agreement would be a condition
of the effectiveness of the proposed loan. The Joint Steering Committee,
originally established by BNDES and DNER under the Second Feeder Roads
Project, would from now on include a representative of the Ministry of
Transport (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The participation of
the Ministry of Transport would ensure better coordination in monitoring
and evaluating the progress of the National Feeder Roads Program.
62.       Another significant institutional improvement would be the adop-
tion by BNDES of an Operational Manual, formalizing internal procedures and
organization of work related to the National Feeder Roads Program which
were gradually elaborated under the two previous loans. After the review
of the draft by the Bank, the Operational Manual would be presented to it
by the middle of 1983 (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). In
addition, BNDES would design, by March 31, 1983, its own computerized
management information system for the Program and -- after discussing it
with the Bank -- put it into operation six months later (Section 2.07 of
the draft Project Agreement). BNDES would further, together with DNER,
prepare and issue to the States and the municipalities an Addendum to the
Manual de Rodovias Vicinais of 1979 (para. 41 above). The Addendum would
update and expand the requirements for the participation in the Program,
and for the preparation and execution of sub-projects, which sub-loan
recipients have been applying to ongoing works included in the two previous
feeder roads projects. The issuance of the Addendum would be an additional
condition for the proposed loan to become effective (Section 6.01(d) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
63.       The attention now given to road maintenance by the Government
underlines its importance (para. 29 and 30). The justification for
building, improving and rehabilitating State and municipal feeder road
networks hinges to the largest extent on the financial, technical and
administrative capacity to properly maintain them in the future. It is a
foremost purpose of the proposed loan to upgrade maintenance capacity of
the States and municipalities, and to ensure proper maintenance of the
feeder roads included in the proposed project. The Federal Government has
agreed with the Bank that the Ministry of Transport would furnish to the
Bank, by the end of 1983, a proposed statement of policy and a plan of
action for the execution of maintenance programs by the States and munici-
palities, and that the plan of action, agreed with the Bank, would be put
into effect by March 31, 1984. To establish adequate financial mechanisms,
to disseminate appropriate maintenance techniques, to strengthen the
agencies in charge of maintenance, and to train maintenance personnel would
be among the specific tasks set in the plan of action (Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
64.       To ensure proper maintenance of the civil works to be financed
under the proposed loan, BNDES -- in reviewing sub-loan applications --
would together with DNER assess the prospective beneficiaries' capacity to
maintain the roads to be built. All sub-loan agreements concluded by BNDES
with the beneficiaries would require them to maintain, in accordance with



- 18 -
appropriate engineering practices, the feeder roads to be built, improved
or rehabilitated under the proposed project. Where the beneficiaries are
not able to do so, they would be required to take steps to improve their
maintenance capability, possibly by employing qualified and experienced
consultants; another possible solution open to municipal consortia or
municipalities would be to enter into agreements with the States or Federal
Territories, which would undertake properly to maintain municipal roads
(Section 2.02(a)(viii) of the draft Project Agreement). In the event of
maintenance consultants being employed by a beneficiary, DNER would review
their terms of reference in conjunction with BNDES and would, subsequently,
supervise their work. As indicated in para. 53 above, some sub-loans would
include provision for maintenance studies and training in maintenance
techniques.
Environmental Aspects
65.       As in the case of the second loan for feeder roads, most of the
sub-projects would involve improvements on existing roads, rather than
construction, and would not affect the environment. In the States of Mato
Grosso and Rondonia, where new roads would be built within the framework of
the Northwest Region Development Program (POLONOROESTE), orderly settlement
and the protection of the lands and well-being of the indigenous population
would be ensured by the National Indian Foundation and the Superintendency
for the Development of Amazonia. BNDES, which is currently acquiring
environmental capacity, would assign a competent official to participate in
the evaluation of the sub-projects and to follow-up on compliance with
environmental measures.
Benefits and Risks
66.       The proposed project should help expand and diversify agricul-
tural production by providing rural communities with all-weather access to
storage, marketing and processing facilities; putting Government credit and
extension service within reach of farm settlements; facilitating the
purchase of essential farm inputs, such as seeds, fertilizer, and imple-
ments; reducing transport operating costs, and achieving economies of scale
through the use of heavier vehicles, with cost savings accruing primarily
to food producers and consumers; and improving access to educational and
health services. In western frontier areas, construction of feeder roads
would link rural communities to the trunk roads, thus permitting better
exploitation of newly cultivated lands. The institutional and policy
features of the project (paras. 59 to 64 above) should help to resolve
problems of coordination, accelerate the processing of the sub-projects and
ensure effective control over their execution. In the longer run, institu-
tional and policy measures should make a significant contribution to the
further development of the transport sector.
67.       Lessons derived from the first and second projects, and the
institutional and policy measures to be taken in the context of the
proposed loan, should considerably reduce the risks involved in the
project. Nevertheless, delays and, possibly, difficulties are bound to
arise from the participation of a large number of government departments
and autonomous agencies at the federal and state levels. Moreover, certain



- 19 -
decisions, and their implementation, may have to be postponed because of
possible changes in State and municipal administration, following the
elections of November 1982. In addition, the preparation of sub-projects
and the processing of sub-loan applications still tend to fall behind.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be the
execution of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower, through its
Ministry of Transport, BNDES and DNER, and the issuance by BNDES and DNER
of an Addendum, satisfactory to the Bank, to the Manual de Rodovias
Vicinais.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE-GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            8512.0                                 MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    2195.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GN? PER CAPITA (USS)                  320.0        570.0    2050.0                    1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      374.6        540.9    1018.3                   1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0       95322.0  118667.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1          55.9      67.6                      65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       176.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         8.4         11.2      13.7                     35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.1         48.2      53.1                     92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.6         42.7      39.2                     39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                          53.8         54.3      56.8                     56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          3.0       4.0                      4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.9       2.2                       2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               5.5          4.8       4.1                       3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.6         37.3      29.5                      31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.1         10.6       8.7                       8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.6       2.0                       2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        111.0     203.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0     124.0                    110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.3        104.3     110.6/d                  108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           64.8         62.0      64.4/i                   66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        35.7         34.4      35.9/d                   34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      19.4         12.5       7.2                       5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          58.9      62.8                     64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           118.2         98.6      77.4                     64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                '          55.0      77.1/e                   65.6
URBAN                                ..         78.0      87.0/i                   78.9
RURAL                                ..         28.0      56.8/;e                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         58.0      64.8/e                   59.3
URBAN                                ..         85.0      83.7/i/                  75.3
RURAL                                ..         24.0      31.7/e                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2561.2      2123.8    1700.0/f                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2772.1       1112.3     822.0/i                 1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             307.0       269.0      247.7/e                  477.4                      286.8
URBAN                             325.6       322.6         ..                    679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0         ..                     27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1          4.8       4.9/e
URBAN                                ..          4.6       4.7/p.
RURAL                                .           5.2       5.3/i 
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.1
URBAN                                ..          1.0
RURAL                                ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.7         47.6      63.0/e
URBAN                                ..         75.6      84.9/e
RURAL                                 ..         8.4      19.2/i.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                  Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 95.0       125.0      89.0/d,g                104.3                    102.9
MALE                 97.0       125.0      90. 0Z>                 106.4                    107.1
FEMALE               93.0       125.0      87.O/d,{                103.3                     99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        26.0      32.0/d                   41.3                     60.2
MALE                 11.0        26.0      30. 07d4                 40.4                     66.4
FEMALE               10.0        26.0      35.O7                    41.8                     54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY) 18.6         16.7      58.O/d,g                 33.7                     31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.1        28.0      22.9/d                   29.9                     25.8
SECONDARY                         12.5        13.2      14.57d                   16.7                     22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        66.2      76.4/e                   79.1                     75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.7        24.4      53.6/e                   42.8                     51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                        66.4       123.8    300.3                     270.5                    157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        16.8        64.0     128.7                    107.7                    123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 53.7        35.8      44.5                     63.7                    112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         2.0       1.8                      2.7                      4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22978.5      29557.2  43796.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.2        20.1      27.5                     24.4                     36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9        45.6      29.9                     31.3                     38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8        18.3      24.4                     23.9                     25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.1        31.0      36.9                     33.6                     44.5
MALE                                52.7        49.3      53.1                     50.4                     56.3
FEMALE                              11.2        12.6      20.5                     16.8                     32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.4       1.2                      1.3                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5      62.0/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8         3.2       2.8/i.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0       9.4/..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..    150.0/d                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     465.0/d                  518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     332.0/i                  371.1                    406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /I 1976; /f 1974.
/g   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
In earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not cemparable with earlier data.
May, 1982



- 22 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINTION   OF SCIALINDICTOISPage    3   of   5
Nt. Alchoogh Sh. utta aa draWn brano-.c. generally 1udged the stuhrial.ndetbt,it sO-ld atau be bac that they maynohein-
naiooly   op.be.btahtu.    ofteldo   tedi.rdil.d d.finibiob.b  n   otpeutdb   ifr                        curiest   Olatfa ch. dot.  rhno Ut.                   eon
thai...,onetul  tosettil   obdgraof sagntuda. inicate tend., en  chacacariee crbain eenr diffteocen htdato cudbria.
an   actcifn.cuin  itb   eriaa   ntlbagneaecfho    oto Illo on-he    T ,he  aenaga   hire ony..aa.. to .o rigbh   ai.o
AilS  (Oboneonsoqie.)                                                                populaion oar dataptal det - -obL, ora..4  rura -  Ppla1e(ttl
for crop.. cacuree. marbab ae iltohen  gardn, or as lie  alloet 1979 daa.  hobillbatlo   annisra.  deniddll  are..-ta-ihftAfti  parmdantly nta-fa
-18P PYig IATIh(0)-  O e  capita. datte   atIull             e t  abttpic.  cl                      daditca    vnlolded.  hea] heh,la  hae.aer Iienh                   shelt
I.I.tis..... ..  f i.d-- t.       hat-     n   rvd      tla    ag  o    eia   eiiis    o    tt
IlEgyi-IJSJPrTfd  POE     cCiPyT    ... tanly cdt.aOO o.f ......      neg   (olaI)payee  re  hositl.  ntuL  900 c                                   ltaipal.          het*a
'REA  )otb.pco e.   aoalgshd-dr-                         ia  cddohra.  ent-                        and rurl   taptae  toa  o   ar]  hsitl  admaia]  edstan
tfllty  an cP ogrna -o cooloqialentpa  capita] 19C.0. f19. and 1979                             center.i.  Spel   iedH-apitala           anue  daly ahdt    r total.
dreheptl ividd A te naa of11 hledI.;Y.-.icd,.
PERCPITITrA3)  (TTS4l  NIT-1ItSITITCN                                                                                                                          I
Toto.crpltin    id-Lt  touaa                I d  fL  (yIc 990  1970.Lano 1980               .dOtORPlEbofd                                                   hy     tb b
a9e0g conre;16.190 n.9gdta                                                                       h   eebi  for80abi- tba  pnofonts. )h.     f,L-.i
tuba  pop .laton-    ag   n    ead theirmabale  adIIeilt  rg.                                  de hlag . epmevly. dt..IIiage             .it eeld    e-derdoane e-rat--s  00
level  ond(nea. lia enetboay nbhiliaog  n 775 yea..  TeIpoe-           httoeioel. dlieide  byith. sietriit if liigd            or.e .eont
T- ber P..ori. feridtY- rahge  dlon  have Ythe. i          9vsl   a 1e97a dei. In              of  Ustotl   ra,adntldulIg   spat
fertIlity ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~         f H--     I acItngL   nc    hevlad-otfaiyIdaIg efreee
dtolf.ar onula Ion-lnbaglteyponainthr   so  dot   ic                                           Prld     ethool- -Ito..  Ail  an1d.  female   -YO nec toal  eal  and femaldeI
br19rh    60.a qalt  the0 death bet.c odas     eaeernuea                                tvl.n   falae   ttapiay   ela   ecnan   fcaebn
mal.  oenon.  Tinan  cheve  oly  ftr (etIlc   rteedelin   t   prmey .hnl-as                         -.I.eon.  r bmalyin -ode c-ldre  aed  -l
th   eLacst   aa  of o0nib na.,  cprpndnsbloe rate..I   b. Ihe  eah gtnebif puera hat  odj -eLad  fa                    Uifenn   len.d  of- r.ap  edaa ie fo
P.P"ebed  o P.. th  b has. ofth  prfrnd   charontercebice .  of-ilthepplto                    a-lnc gmap i  nra"ly he Iineorshv  the. aff.-P.-'ha  aga
met  ool.etaotnnn,areatIee  furyne  o  apvrd  rtat eL..tin
Tear  tatieery  orolttnle neahei  -  fo  yeAr:ic    efian'  ..oiott. opL-a.E.tinpade    iatra,oatoa.o   ece   rfoo   snetesfrppl
PobLab Ion lenaccy     I                                                                         *t ci did.
I    Ia re;  90.190anf        17  dote.                                                      te T.  .-C-aebcnn].fdnve.o   berPoem    bc    prt   nesd
only; 19t80, 1-70.and 1979.data.                                                       Ptai-tareertI   res-. and sagneder   - lgleedeaadeldI
Po -ioc ltonin  obrannore (neeeI t- I. idr -e (0-14  pear.l mrcina-og  (IS-                     piayad.eeay  eesdvddb   .aeeo  eaei  h
94yaeh -I.1   1 n  h..rnir i ( _S an   and hunable.p  -bieeto .aof  en-yearpope            DCTConeandn Ine.
lata     it90.190  dod 180daa                                                            Adeig tibana..  rage leret)ti        treaann.(6,    ne    deie
Peitian 'Iroah ..ea. q.ercet)  tI tald    Annaat   grcth rtso   OO ld                           oapretg  ofl  tuga.  I am  papeien aged 15 yma- aS  0-b .-                   i
repppltonir:5-0  1960-Iy ad 190-hi
otto . fo ....-.., 1960-70._, and197-T0 "" L.nrnaar Car.(per --tI                                              thotso d-.ovLa..c        .. t - - Paaener  drsomen   en-or
ird   tb  ate (h. bhooei   d  - ch. p l 10cr  drhed    e th: Lionefonh ofp eat-ec            0* -  peating  (n.       bfb 1- .98    eb.-  h.eli erleeeon e .&ha...  a
thpucci-; 290.090.   and  1980..   data.      ff-iltyellitary oSd                                       sh ltlee..   .-;  -.d  
YOpaIon   90  1970.I.ond 198  datha.                                                           biT.nodtoeteia...o pgenena-i"   public perd.a  -fb h-naaed  opeaL t...; entiad. I   P.00
tiityrilsa.  I.alyfle-er  vead .           edig  n  90.190.oa   98.2la  cntraehei.a   fliceat-eg
one   fcidhaig-t   i-dpae   icoehencvrl  devie79beIfewnpepe  C.irrnlatn   (n id                                           f".l,ae e-ntiatpno-   kiesthe overae d0
al  mrrc  w,ae to          :ld as  greaP                                                       cayeLeo  'diygeea  interes  ve-apape-.deidasaprdc
P005 hobo 9uTilTt0ba                                                             be ha  daily  if in appear. an lnoen four hiss a 5e m."ft.P'= '   T
loda o  Pod Poaobiocee (p aciba I Child-7ld(0-1  yen  of. peri csta  aon0ine  dea   -nedaa,e ca dCno e=                             fa  -        foa     the vi.   of.
proocinaofallfod             Y-soibe.    Prdatad    tldy    ed  n  fe fan bIfanta solp.did duingteyarInl.ngamai.at   rvef   i
is ondcalnder yearh.eit. ceptie..cotr primaryanode  da.. tagattaeI004  4ebda  -ii.)
it crad of nufor) o1iah are edible and contain antrie na  (..gT ooffdn.an
tea oc I anl Rad.    gngta  ndnteAtlahl                 otyi   eado                       ng   R
qaobtie  ae  i  fod  rnasie  ad  oee   i   lar.dtia   Rqur-                                      aecltt (IIIi)-  aorfer-h                 arin.fner.  eaig  n
c-nyan  health-.. ccnidrhg evbeeei.ieta he..bodyf algAe. Rg Idui t R                                     re-n- (-  fthen  art  i  a          AmLIg eeIvuca.f   faneda -tdi     .
1960el  lnd   1961-65.. 1970 sd.. 1977data                                                 186. 187  a   isa  dat .,  h-'                 P.           d;-.
Percopta  urlyll of  -rbi  (Aroma per.  da)-SProrst              ilele  o  per  icpr        yarbfclsado   gen  (eree)    cb.   fla. PD  tmee  A-             coafIedOr
net noppy of foo  per da.d9it ah.l  of Pon   La.defIne  be  bera.t  f.c-                ociiyrtes ar   d.~ted E-   netal  main, and f- al  l               fat.
aIllience   of 1h0  eaiat-ota  protei  per -doy and 190. gra0s of ab90l                       .16. 1970I. an .b19Lhdat.Te.aehsdo   1'   atntno    an
pulee, 1 prtin. of eit  10-gra   stheslndhe anma  ptotn. Thee -1t  I-                          refetn    TgVn tuaumo  h                       Iouain-,      long nime. tre.A
tinbI.oe:hnboa  f7   ba   fnaa   rti   n                            digad f                    e   eimneaeEr   aLno   nr
anialProeI  anobnobgefo  thec. Lrd nropan-   d by P60I  h    hr                        cnmCSvnan   ai      al   fppito   adrI   n   Sado
Per  anit reoela  urtl -fro    bImlbd  -.la  - ProteindeL.ly of bone de
OrLee dabs dnrined from  lifa topbil-o.; 1890.d1970viendt1980ddatoR. of1hItsino-da-
FIOM IM   UTITON                                                                               Pc b. TT       l TfOT if    i    pOP1S         -    il
Tn- of po1  (norl i.b c.rds bl.en   ua)ce   onnboacn  Co ea..`of fo.dabl,.
ogeepi   ltue   ratdecannnr   nutrnae iLn ancoa-nen Ated                                    teiane    ealePvry(eonlvl(S   o   ertf-ra   n   aa
watr  ac  a  catfie potttddarise9  eyaaa   n  ean0 try. Wel980             0 tdral  alat-             n   paneetyh inomalevl I  ns-nir  of-aerag Lerldaig
fOotl-  o -tl acrb   oae   o   aeta   O   eeefo      onemyi                                    aa    ihajaatfrhae   oto  hymn  in anion a                         ..as.
conIeLdertanaIce  tag  ittn    cancanle.  .-ceas  ofta  boue.nocl`            en              etiatdg Ps aI..   feo  Obsolob  Deidillltacos -inne    cdaneen)- orio
00 cot nav  to  ppeod      -p.boorinot  Pont1L                                                 -pof..rbloayIt0fetching the
danily' e ooPcni vdale."-t)-   -1   I l   ~ :f   ..   I.
nt    ri   ieca  pece   fnmaaln                     IIol     7db..: 00,4 canal -IL                                                                                   .
q-ne  o  7ept ibutal          ...a aid rurda - uovd~ di an i                                   kg,naol-p                                                                 d
tue  -o.eao   a di    artl al. both O   nitno  nineteset. otf-                                   -  tstent sanrIatta1I..f-
-        "uato  ntP"'icu   -  oioiu   lie   y  tsro  proc Liacag  phya__                                                           tonne-   na  So_ia _Ost_ lnina
'ia IbqfalniL.fd.fi-dacalech.-it-- ivtenty-ave.                                                                            (mad mi Id  aysl  _dPoltOobDpemn
"unlI  n   dir f.:dsc  Pena     Pyaoio  dnde  b   amebo  Oeci tg                                                                                  o  1-
nab -tn  f-vale  gradutei nose,lnietan byUSfAe pract fical coan  aidfI-' 1..4f-.pp.idfL   "                                                                          p     -y
Nursing anallIangan.   :j                                                                                      d



ANNEX I
-     23      -                                                                 Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population      :  119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Indicator                                    Amount                         Average Annual Increase (Z)                    Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)
(Million US$ Current)                   (at Constant 1970 Prices)                             (at current Prices)
l981                   1965-70    1970-75    1975-80    1981-86                  1970        1975       1981 bT
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                              284,003                   7.7        10.6         6.9          2.0             100.0       100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                           29,196                  1.9          5.7         4.7          4.5             10.2         10.9        12.0
Industry                                             77,115                   9.2         11.6         7.6           .08            35.8         37.2        31.9
Services                                            135,275                   8.0        10.7          6.8         4.1              54.0         51.9        55.9
Consumption                                            230,325                  7.7          9.8         5.7          3.3              77.8        76.6        81.1
Gross Investment                                        55,328                   9.4        14.6         5.2          3.6              22.7        21.3         19.5
Exports of Goods and NFS                                25,575                  8.2         11.2         7.3         6.5                6.7         7.5         9.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                                27,199                 14.5         17.2         2.8         4.4                7.2        11.4         9.6
Gross Domestic Savings                                53,677                  7.9         12.9         6.1          -               22.2         23.4        18.9
Auount                     Average Annual Increase (X)               Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(Million USS Current)               (at Constant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1981                  1970-75          1975-80      1981-86                   1970          1975        1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                    23,393                11.1               7.7             2.8                    100.0        100.0        100.0
Primary c/                                           8,954                  8.3              1.1               .8                    76.7          62.7        38.3
Manufactures d/                                      13,358.6              28.2             18.2             5.6                      22.5         34.8        57.1
Merchandise Import                                     22,080                14.8             -3.3              1.2                    100.0        100.0       100.0
Food (cereals)                                        1,077                -6.7             17.5             8.8                       4.5          3.0         4.8
Petroleum                                           11,333                  7.6              4.3           -11.0                     11.2          25.4        51.3
Machinery and Equipment e/                            4,020                15.2             -7.5             2.0                     36.2          32.2        18.2
Other                                                5,650                 28.4             -1.9             4.3                     48.1          39.4        25.7
1975           1976            1977            1978            1979           1980              1981
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 - 100)                                      305.1          444.3           632.7           892.5        1,399.4         2,724.6          5,696.8
Exchange Rate (Cr1/US$)                                         8.1            10.6            14.1            18.1           26.9            52.7             93.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)                               176.0           192.0           226.0          228.0           266.0           290.0            305
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)                               242.0           255.0           286.0           317.0          389.0           431.0            461
Terms of Trade Index (1970 - 100)                              72.0            75.0            79.0            72.0           68.0            67.0             66
As 2 of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975              1979            1980 8/        1981 g/
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                      16.6             19.8              20.8              19.7          18.0
Current Expenditure                                                                  14.4             15.8              17.6              17.8          17.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                            2.2              4.0               3.2               1.9            .5
Capital Expenditure                                                                   2.6              3.8               3.7               6.6           6.3
Financing (Net)                                                                      -0.4              0.2              -0.5               4.7            5.8
1965-70            1970-75            1975-79               1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (. )                                                                 7.7               10.7                5.8                    -.
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (I)                                                       4.6                7.7                3.0                   -0.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (Z)                                                   7.2                7.3                6.5
ICOR f/                                                                              2.9                3.0                3.9                    3.2
Marginal Savings Rate f/                                                            20.5               25.7               22.7                   24.0
Import Elasticity  f/                                                                2.2                1.6                0.3                  -0.6
a/   At rarket prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
c/   Includes:  coffee (beans and soluble), other agriculture and minerals
d/   includes:  manufactured and semi-processed
e/ Includes: transportation materials
f/ the 1981-86 projections are average arithmetic mean of the sim-year
g/   1980 and 1981 include governent expenditures effected through the monetary budget and some ninor governmentg funds.
August, 1982
Source: Conjunturs Economica (FGV), santo Central do Brazil, Brazil Standard Model (World bank)



SALANC  0? ?498.ETA .ALCt                MEAD DEBT
Ppato:   Li, nillion  (1980)
GN?Pe  Ca-Zp;ita:  USf2,D50 (1950)
1973        1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1881             Tm          1983        r1984         1983         1986
Wesp.rD  of goods and --I...n                                   4.,702       -6,019      -4,037       46.066      -10,D30      -12,566      -11,173         -13,064        64685       -7,009       -4,029         -635
toor.  f  oos                                                    9.70)    (ID,128)    (12,12D)    (12.659)    (15,244)    (20.132)    (23,293)               20,514       23,343       27,474       32,001       36,875
ZIsPrt  off Good.                                            (-12,210)   (-2,383    (-2 .023)   (-13,843)   (-18,084)   (-22,955)   (-22,060)               -20,000      -17,008      -21,114      -22,747     -24,250-
Net factor locoas                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~-1.732  -2,189  -2.536      -3,257      -4,821       -86:21       -9,5469         12,031)    -12,450       -13.250      -13,028      -12,925
(of obchnt       --oca  Pay-eno)k/                           (-.9)       (-  806-213                -.46)    (-4:,163)    (4,311          (-1 79)         (1.700)    (12,439)    (12.031>    (11,690)    (11.677)
Net 0cc-factor sec~~~~~~~tces   .              -1.4~~29     15 -        -1,97         -.03        -2,37        -3,120       -2,837          -2.4"9         -178         -200         -255         -336
Netoonfr                                                               2            1            -           71           is         168          197              197         197          197          107          197
Correct accoont holcfce                          4~~~~~~~~~~-.700  46,017  -4,037       46,013     -10,021      -12,394      -10,976          -13,789      46,28           4692      -3,832         -441-
Direct prIvate Ineonteant lb                        8~~    ~    ~~~~        ~~92  959  80 1:,01      1,4971       1,121.0      1,569           1.691        1,743        1,961       2,204        2.464
8L1  lon   r                                                       .30         3,542        5,60        10,018       5,297        3,475.0      9.371 1.       1042          5,808        7,307        4,126          785
TradItIonal noorce                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~(953)  (1,147)  (1,039)  (1,450)  (1,462)   (1,432.04)   (4314-          (5,22)       (4.15        393          391          534
Titor-la1 c-dits                                                (6,127)      (7,013)      (8,224)    (13,714)    (10,266)       (S6,33.3   (313)            (12,458)      (0,13'2     (22,710)    (1,500)        (9,262)
.....t1c                                                   (-2,15'2)    (-2.619)    (-3,633)    (-5.146))   (-6.431)        (6,61.0)(784                (-7,1903    (-7,449)    (-9,234)   (-10,369)   (-12.086)
ItanlIlac loans abroad (cat)                       -190~~~~~~_  -248         -267        -357         -610          161         -702          -1,045       -1.144       -1,490       -1,046       -2,298
Othe  capta  t..                                                     218          94        -,2            -55           628       4043         1,39.0          2,251         -137           71           -13
Cheoga In resr-.   9-nron)/                                             50       -1,192         4630       -4,262        5,215        5,321        -853              400         -         -1,138         -531         -313
Ioaotoa  Reseve  /d                                            4,041       6,344        7,256       11,895        9,499        6,913        7,503           7,015        7,105        8,243       8, 774       9,287
tee -cssoh, of lePor./e.                                           6            6.3          7.2        10.3           6.6         3.6          4.1             4.3          5.0          4.7          4,6          6.6
197         1076         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981
Tonal debt  1oatodc  nod diaboceed                                23.298       28,683      34,401       466,634      31,342       34,845    61,400 1!
P.b110 nod pblMcly  o-ccteo                                     13.706       17,340       11,505      30,164       i 35,78      26,260-
OffIcia1 s.arca                                                3,939        4,431       6:,717       3,401        5.889        6,16 
I81                                                        (1,093)      (1,217)      (1,63)       (1,602)      (1, 827)     (2,069)           -
Othe                                                        (2.866)     (3,214)      (3,306)      (3,793)      (4,082       (6,307)     
pc iccesoc                                                     9,747      12,918       16,.878      23.883       29,589       51,8464
Pricote coc-goaratteed                          9,59~~~~~~~~~3:12  11,133  13,003     14,152       1584        16,605-
ocdlsooc-d dolt (pobllc oc1y)                                      3,79         6,620       8,411       10.209       12,646       14,041-
lrosm Dtnh.-ne-tta
Toa .. ro~ .. disnresc-  of 841T Icaa                              698          8.160        9,282      15,164       l11.728      1D0,05 
PoblIc an  poblicIY S goarsted                                   3,4788       6,921       5,422       10,116        9,5          6.893 
OffIcIal cp`r  cre"t                                             428          45           149         49           4648         46
IBRD                                                            250         173          299          275          302          343-
Other slliia--la                                                119          113          92          134          286          19I
PrIvate soorce                                2,99~~~~~~~~~~~~11  6,233  4,842      9,214        8,17.         ,82 
l.tioc  oc-ortnd314                                                          3239        3,661        5,48         2,576        3,102
Totai doht sorvict payneote                       4~~~~~~~~1,1793  4,3~22)  3:,642      8:,232      131,147      13,148       15,554
loferrat loot)                               (1.677~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) (1,423)  (1,651)  (2,47      (,55)       (5,412)           -
Papaota -  1  f tE.rt  ad "S5                                        43.0         38.7         42.3         58.8        64.8         60.0         41.0
Pa ysect  saI  f Of?,                                                 2.9          2.6          3.0          3.7         4.3          4.8          -
Aocntgcto ictnt cai  ot th  poblic dobt (X) (                    67           7.6          6.3          8.0         11.2         12.3         -
offIial. Ioce                                                          .7          7.9          8.0          7.3          8.3         9.7          -
A.e.ge...   ttyo  ceo   --ret-d Icoo                                    9.0         (1.3         10.0         10.0         11.5        130.53
OfIcilsot                                                         1.4         16.3         16.1         14.3         14.          13.
Poicote soorc                                                         7.0          9.3          0.7         9.3         1'1.2         9.5          -
I18WG.  totI                                                          4.7          4.3          4,           5.4          3.          3.8          -
1830 dlab-oeestt/tota1 SODa  diebc.-e.ets (2)                         3.5          2.1          3.2          1.8         2.6          3.4 
2IUD debt se_i-e/tttol debt e..rtte (Z)                               2.3          3.2          3.7         2.7          2.2          2.1          -
I 2  f  tota  debt  atstandlng
on end of Dece-ber 1908    lb
-ao  ty  ttre of debt  --ttadlog
fetroo=o  nlthit 5 ysare                                                                67
Naoledoe nOthit 10 year                                                                 33
5 Onlodiog re-inctn  prfftte
ItDoldig dolla  raoto         djotot.ea and  -oot-Lnao   of d-.otto gold
1- bolding gOld ocd doIllar valotc  ndjoe--nt
/8  Dotails  novilebla
IjPblic deLbt only
I]:  itl .1oadard eadl (Wand Oa-k)
1:Si-  1983 on, it enfan onyto in-reat  on MIT lo-o
Moc -:Dao  Ca-rl do Onsol; ton-nl Debt Data  (EPD): 78-81 (World jan6
5er-b- 1902
DIsh  no204.Ttle. bol py.". Dic:-          cIabse  (Tnblos for Pt.e. Up.)



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-six loans fully disbursed                                 1,950.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0           3.2
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          14.3
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5           5.4
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads              110.0          12.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0           8.5
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          16.6
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0           1.0
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0           7.9
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            6.5
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads        55.0          25.6
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture         40.0           3.4
1300   1976  Eletrobras                        Power               50.0            .3
1302   1976  Brazil                            Nutrition           19.0            .6
1317   1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       83.0          47.9
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                         Power               82.0          14.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development  42.0            8.4
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer          52.0           3.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer          55.0           1.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                            Education           32.0          21.8
1488   1977  Brazil                            Rural Development  17.0           11.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage           110.0          66.4
1537   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  24.0           18.9
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power              130.0          49.5
1557   1978  Brazil                            Roads              114.0          84.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals      85.0           8.6
1563   1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport    88.0           28.7
1568   1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension  100.0           67.9
1589   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  37.0           27.0
1654   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sites & Services   93.0           50.8
1656   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water & Sewerage  100.0           73.1
1660   1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum            78.8           2.9



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            22.9
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            53.7
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          72.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            33.4
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          15.8
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads               110.0           87.3
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            57.9
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply        130.0         100.7
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power               114.0          111.1
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           154.6
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           139.0         104.7
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education            32.0          30.4
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            60.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power               125.0         123.6
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0           49.7
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                54.0           51.9
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport      90.0          88.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           180.0         153.2
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.       250.0         247.1
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture          29.0           25.5
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture          60.0           56.7
2060    1982  Brazil                           Agriculture          67.0           63.0
2061    1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          12.0
2062    1982  Brazil                           Highways            240.0         217.8
2116    1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           26.4          26.0
2138 /1 1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power               182.7          182.7
2163 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture          26.4          26.4
2170 /1 1982  Brazil                           Urban Development  123.9           123.9
2177 /1 1982  Brazil                           Rural Development   42.7           42.7
2193 /1 1982  Brazil                           Urban Development    8.9             8.9
2196 /1 1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore            304.5         304.5
Total                                              6,998.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  991.0
Total now outstanding                              6,007.9
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            45.5             0.3
Total now held by Bank                             6,007.6
Total undisbursed                                                3,401.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



-2 7-                                                                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                               Amount In USS million
Year                                                 Obligor                                          Type of Business             Loans    Equity   Total
1957                    Siemens do Brasil Cta. do Electricidade                               Electrical Equlpnment                  2.00       -        2.00
1958                   Ollnkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                                       Pulp and Paper                         1.70       -        1.20
1958                   D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                                       Automotive Parts                       0.45       -        0.45
1958                   Wlilys-Overiand do Brasi, S.A. - Industria e Comerclo                  Motor Vehicles                         2.45       -       2.45
1959                   Ccmpanhlia Minelra de Cimento Portland, S.A.                           Cemnt                                  1.20       -        1.00
1959                   Champion Celulose, S.A.                                                Pulp                                  4.00        -       4.00
1966/1968/1972          Acos Vilares, S.A.                                                    Steel                                 6.00      1.93      9.93
1966/1969              Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                                     Pulp and Paper                        3.76      3.41      7.19
1967/1972               Ultrafertil, S.A. - Indusirla e Comerclo de Fertilizantes             Fertilizers                           8.22      3.03     11.25
1969                    Petroquimica Unlao, S.A.                                              Petrochemicals                         5.50     2.88      8.39
1970                   PoliolefInas, S.A. Industrla e Comercio                                Petrochemicals                        5.50      2.89      8.35
1971                   Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Conmercio                                    Petrochemicals                        4.60      1.44      6.04
1971                   Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                             Pulp                                   4.90        -       4.90
1972/1975/1981         Companhia de C1mento Nacional de Mlnas                                Cement                               169.14      6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                           Steel                                76.97    11.22      88.19
1973                   Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                              Capital Market Development             5.00        -       5.00
1973/1978              Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais - COOEMIN, S.A.    N1ckei Mining and RefIning               85.00      8.34     93.34
1974                    Industrias Villares, S.A.                                             Eievators and Industrial Equlpnent   6.00         -       6.00
1974                   Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape, S.A.                                       Textiles                              31.00        -      31.00
1975/1979              Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                      Carbon Black                           6.13      1.10      7.37
1975                   Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                                 Petrochemicals                       10.00        -      10.00
1976                   Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                         Text lees                              6.45      1.00      7.45
1976/1980              Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarmnense do Nordeste                         Textiles                              16.20        -      16.20
1977                   FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                                        Iron and Aluminum Castings           20.00        -      20.00
1977                   Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                           Mining                                15.00        -      15.00
1978                   Clmetal Siderurgla S.A.                                                Iron and Steel                        7.00      3.00     10.00
1979                   Volvo do Brasil Motores e Velcules, S.A.                              Motor Vehicles                        60.00      5.27     65.27
1980                  Rering do Nordeste S.A. - Malhas                                    Ready-made Garments                       2.00        -       2.00
1980                  Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Industrla
e Comerclo de Oleaginsosas                                      Palm Oil                                 3.50      1.00      4.50
1980                   VII ares Industrias de Base S.A. - VI1ASA                            Iron and Steel                          5.00        -       5.00
1980                   PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                         Chemicals and Petrorhemicals            15.00      2.00     17.00
1980                   Destilarla Clanorte S.A.                                            Chemicals and Petrochemicals               -       0.25      0.25
1980                   Sotave Amazonla Qulmica e Mineral S/A                               Fertilizers                             16.00      4.00     20.00
1980                   Pollsul Petroquimica                                                Chemicals and Petrochemicals            43.00      5.00     48.00
1981                   Brasilpar                                                           Money and Capital Markets                -         1.50      1.50
1981                   Companhia Brasilelra de Agropecuarla - CORAPE                      Food and Food Processing                 5.50      3.00      8.50
1981                   Trlunfo                                                             Chemicals and Petrochemicals            46.00      4.00     56.00
1982                   CImento CALE                                                        Cement and Construction Materials       40.00      5.00     45.00
1982                    lochpe Agro-IndusIrlal S.A.                                        Money Capital Market                    30.00      0.45     30.45
1983                   Companhia Rio Grandense de Participacoes (CRP)                      Money Capital Market                       -       0.72      0.72
Total Gross Commitments                                                                         771.74    79.21    850.95
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                          560.32    12.16    572.48
Total Cammitments Now Held by IFC                                                               211.42    67.05    278.47
Total Undisbursed                                                                               159.28    14.02    173.30



- 28-                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1982 1/
As of September 30, 1982, there were 57 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is nearing completion. Procurement has been
completed. Four of the six generating units have been in service
since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981. A cost
overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and of
the Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27, 1974;
Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Progress in implementation of
the enlarged project is satisfactory. However, there might be a need
to postpone the Closing Date to June, 1983 to complete disbursements.
Overall costs are within reviewed estimates. A local project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is approaching completion. All project components,
except DNER's Weighing Stations Program (Phase I) and some state
highway rehabilitation works in Minas Gerais, are substantially
completed. Construction of the weighing stations has been
hindered by the financial difficulties of DNER which have left
the stations program without the necessary funds. The program
is being reformulated and is expected to be completed in late
1983.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Measures for ensuring completion of the CSN
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of
price increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash
generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult international
credit markets which have prevented CSN from raising the long-
term funds it needs. In light of this situation, a meeting in
Washington is planned for late November to review with the
Government and CSN the progress being made in meeting the
commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking into
account the likely available internal and external resources in
that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress on
project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for CSN.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Measures for ensuring completion of the
COSIPA project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios
according to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in
June 1982. Despite this, however, the project remains virtually
stopped and the company's financial position has continued to
deteriorate. This situation has arisen due to: delays in the
granting of price increases and the provision of equity funds;
lower cash generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult
international credit markets which have prevented COSIPA from
raising the long-term funds it needs. In light of this situation,
a meeting in Washington is planned for late November to review
with the Government and COSIPA the progress being made in meeting
the commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking
into account the likely available internal and external resources
in that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress
on project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for COSIPA.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983: The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
drop the Brejo Grande varzea from the scope of the project and
reallocated funds to the construction of civil engineering works
unforeseen during the project evaluation phase. The Closing Date
was postponed to September 30, 1983. CODEVASF operations on
production activities continue to improve substantially. The
rate of disbursements has risen sharply and about 95% of the
loan is now disbursed.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
costs in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment in train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but progress in recent months has been encouraging. A proposal for
project reformulation, including expansion into seven new munici-
palities is currently being considered.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project was completed in
early 1982, resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or
construction of 5,210 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision
of about US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional
financing of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical imple-
mentation of the project, which had reached 50% as of March 31, 1982,
is now progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan have
reached 53% as of September 30, 1982, and are expected to be completed
by the end of 1983.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. With the removal of constraints on the levels of
incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Latest indications (10/15/82) are
that the necessary levels of counterpart funding and project
implementation are being sustained during 1982, and that the
project should be completed by about end-1982. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1983.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Except for a small portion (about 8%) of COELBA's subproject all
works have been completed. A balance of about US$300,000 will
remain undisbursed and will have to be cancelled. The agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981.
Difficulties arising from competing credit lines at subsidized
rates and inadequate monetary correction have ended.  Arrangements
for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed
with the Government. The project has been progressing well in
very difficult economic conditions. The loan is expected to be
fully committed shortly. A third project is due to be appraised
in October/November 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
sufficient time to meet retention payments on equipment contracts.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A second, final post-
ponement of the closing date by 18 months to permit completion of
project activities including a program for further strengthening of
institutions responsible for marketing, farm management extension,
and community development, is being envisaged.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1982.
The plant has been completed and was formally inaugurated in
September 1982. The plants are operating satisfactorily. The
costs to complete the project are expected to be about 15% below
the appraisal estimate. The Closing Date was postponed to
November 30, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%. The Closing Date was
postponed to December 31, 1982.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of hotel training centers.
The presidential decree approving the legal and financial definition
of SENAR was signed, which now permits this component to be fully
implemented. The Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1985.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. The project has been reformulated with a
special focus in the remaining years on the Carrasco sub-region.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1985.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Financial and managerial problems created significant delays in
project implementation over the first two years, but the situation
improved markedly with a reorganization of project administration
and the reformulation of several components. Nonetheless, the
project has recently encountered new difficulties which will require
reorientation of management and agricultural development activities.
The state is currently undertaking a complete evaluation study,
which will include a proposal to reformulate certain aspects of the
project and to extend the Closing Date.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily. The Closing
Date will be postponed by two years to December 31, 1984.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. Highway
rehabilitation works were reactivated by mid-1981 but at a slow
pace because of inadequate funding. The maintenance program in
the state of Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the
weighing station program will not begin until the first phase
(under Loan 1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored.
The Project is being reformulated to reflect current priorities.
Project completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 97%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October/November 1982. The anticipated cost to complete
the project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementation.
The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981/82. Partial exemption
to re-imposed Government hiring restrictions (12/28/81) are being
arranged by EMBRATER, on a state by state basis to prevent a serious
slow-down in project development. Hiring restrictions are only part
of the problem in some states however, mostly in the North and
Northeast, where lack of counterpart funding to pay additional
staff salaries is now the key issue. Administrative changes, due
to election results of November 15, 1982 could well cause some
delay in project execution during early 1983 until the new state
administrations become familiar with project objectives.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
and the execution of the education and water supply components are
approaching appraisal targets.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. Contracts for the last housing
scheme of the Project will be tendered at the end of October, 1982.
The Bank has approved a proposal that will offer a solution to the
problems which have caused slow progress in this project and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed earlier this year.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982.  There is a cost
overrun of about 8%.  The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices. The Closing Date
was postponed to January 31, 1983.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with most
project components. Extension services achieved very close to
first year targets and exceeded second and third year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Citics Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date:  May 2, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Planned investments in the first four cities included in the project
have practically been completed, and it is now expected that all
investments will be completed within the revised schedule.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
(The loan's closing date was postponed from December 31, 1983 to
December 31, 1985). Two of the additional three cities incorporated
into the project last August were already appraised during October,
and the last city is expected to be appraised during the first
quarter of 1983. About 60% of the loan is expected to be disbursed
by October 1983.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. All project components have progressed slowly,
mainly due to delays in the release of federal funds. Urgently
needed road maintenance has not yet begun because of funding
problems in the municipalities. Project administration and
management is gradually improving, but further improvements in
coordination among the agencies involved in execution is still
needed.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
developed by PETROBRAS in the Brejo Grande sub-area has led to
the dropping from the project of previously planned irrigation
and drainage investments there. The monitoring unit has been
installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have reached
US$22.7 million by the end of September 1982, which is in line with
appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation proceeded
satisfactorily, though the company is facing financial difficulties
which, if not resolved, could delay project completion.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about twelve months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during calendar years 1980 to 1982. The delay is expected to be made
up for during the remaining period of project implementation. To this
end, the PIU is preparing a reprogramming of the remaining project
implementation schedule, which will constitute the basis for discus-
sion with the forthcoming supervision mission. A substantial impact
evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. Previous plans for co-financing
have fallen through, leading to financing problems which have slowed
project implementation such that some reformulation of project targets
is being considered. Subject to these constraints, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million loan
of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding slower than anticipated,
mainly due to funding delays and institutional problems. Some remedial
actions are being taken.



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Implementation of this project is about twelve months behind schedule.
Corrective measures are being taken to bring the project back to its
original schedule as a result of recent (July 1982) discussions held
in Brazil.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily.
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are progress-
ing satisfactorily, although the production component may suffer
temporary delays due to financial stringency at the national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up was delayed because of the late
receipt of funds, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
with over 300 beneficiaries of land redistribution and several
hundred more titles to be distributed in the next few months. Other
components have also progressed well, although limited execution
capacity has slowed progress in small-scale irrigation and water
supply, and delayed the establishment of the State Land Institute.
Overall, project administration is functioning well.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays occurred during 1982 as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, Government
restrictions on hiring (12/28/81) are necessitating special arrange-
ments by EMBRAPA to overcome these restrictions on a case by case
basis. Assurances have now been received from SEPLAN that, commencing
with CY83, there would be full allocation of essential counterpart
funding for the project.
2060      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase:
Agriculture Project: US$67.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Construction of agricultural infrastructure is proceeding faster
than initially assumed, but there have been some delays in transfer
of funds to local implementing agencies. There has been erratic
progress in environmental component and project coordination
structures, with the exception of Amerindian protection program
which has been progressing satisfactorily.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
2061      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Health Project US$13.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project start-up is generally satisfactory. The construction
program is proceeding according to schedule but some critical
delays have occurred in the implementation of the malaria control
program because of budgetary constraints at the national level.
2062      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Highway Project: US$240.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes highway, the main project
component, is progressing well in most of the 19 construction lots
into which the highway is divided. Works started in October 1981
and are scheduled for completion in 1985. The quality of works
is good and DNER's supervision, assisted by six consultants, is
adequate. The strengthening program for the Rondonia Highway
Department is experiencing start-up difficulties because of
management changes. The situation should improve in 1983 with
the start of the technical assistance financed under the project.
2116      Northwest Region Development Program; Second Phase; Mato Grosso
Rural Development Project; US$26.4 million loan of May 12, 1982;
Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Delays in funding have slowed initial construction activities.
Additional extension staff are being trained and other start-up
activities are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 40 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          5 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:          BNDES
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    May 1981
(d)  First mission to review project:   October 1981
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    January 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:             October 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          March 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   (a)  BNDES would require that sub-projects submitted to it for
financing have an execution schedule not exceeding three years
(para. 45);
(b) The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transport, would make
available to BNDES for the National Feeder Roads Program the
equivalent of US$46 million in form of grant and would supplement
this amount as needed to maintain its share in the cost of the
project (para. 51);
(c) The amount spent on sub-projects in any single State, Territory,
or the Federal District, would not exceed the equivalent of US$50
million, except for the State of Sao Paulo where not more than
the equivalent of US$40 million would be spent (para. 52);
(d) A price contingency of not less than 20% would be included in the
amount of each sub-loan and, whenever justified, a maximum of 5%
of each sub-loan would be used for maintenance studies and
training in maintenance techniques (para. 53);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transport, would furnish to
the Bank by December 31, 1983, for review and comment, a state-
ment of policy for feeder roads investments and a plan of action
for harmonizing federal feeder roads programs (para. 60);
(f) BNDES would furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1983, for review and
comment, a revised draft Operational Manual, and by June 30, 1983
the Operational Manual (para. 62);
(g) BNDES would furnish to the Bank by March 31, 1983, for review and
comment, a draft design of a management information system for
the National Feeder Roads Program, and would put the system into
operation by September 30, 1983 (para. 62); and
(h) The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transport, would furnish to
the Bank by December 31, 1983, for review and comment, a state-
ment of policy and a plan of action for the execution of mainte-
nance programs by States and municipalities, and by March 31,
1984 put into effect the plan of action agreed with the Bank
(para. 63).
2.        Additional conditions of effectiveness would be the execution of
a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower, through its Ministry of
Transport, BNDES and DNER, and the issuance by BNDES and DNER of an
Addendum, satisfactory to the Bank, to the Manual de Rodovias Vicinais.






PRD 1424CR
Vr  F '/NE FQ E Z U I  L A                                                                                                                           IFBF
I     "ENEDuI A                                                   A N 
) 5,                              \i                 SiB t~AM   \uLIAN      -      .
G,UYANA   \ )
I-V  r-                         '  {"3'Q<--p:-4A               j"t,4e Ftnem! EEA .HA EWR 
p                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
I-31
iMAZONA                                       %                PEA -TR  A                                                                                    RhJC } ',R;OGRANDE
IA UM 
[   a   S-f .S-- s azArmA                             L U > L G U r Y   4 s .i                                 1                2   _ ,-- -2---- - ------
) 1/                               z s,  .M....,,I  S                                                                                                                  9AGOA
P E R tJ                                                          - 4-Ir G.    .    I
J!  FF_55
71I
U     B C,  I  tI1
~~~    C/CRF/C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ A -
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1~--3
'Al~~~~~~~lC
IIMFIC ~~~~~~ ~~         /        -       A            --  '~~~~~~~' ~FEDERAL H VG-iWAY NETWORK
THIRD FRRRDSR RASPROJECT     /                                                                               ____________
-n              -_~ . .  .  - 
L                    _                                IIC 



