r a / <S iE LIs 2                        /-
Document of
The World Bank
lOR nFFICT AT. I ISF. ONLY
Report No. 3889b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
November 29, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America aad the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit            Cruzeiro (Cr$) divided into 100 cents
Exchange Rate
1976        US$1  =   Cr$ 10.79 (average for year)
1977        US$1  =   Cr$ 14.19 (average for year)
1978        US$1  =   Cr$ 18.31 (average for year)
1979        US$1  =   Cr$ 27.58 (average for year)
1980        US$1  =   Cr$ 52.70 (average for year)
1981        US$1  =   Cr$ 94.70 (average for year)
1982        US$1  =   Cr$ 177.54 (average for July 1982)
Fiscal Year              January 1 - December 31
Units and Measures
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)        =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations
AM        Addendum to the Manual (Manual de Rodovias Vicinais,
BNDES/DNER/IBRD)
BNDES     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social -
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CINTEA    Companhia Intermunicipal de Estradas Alimentadoras do Rio Grande do
Sul - Rio Grande do Sul Municipal Road Consortia
CODERPI   Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario do Piaui -
Piaui's Municipal Road Consortia
CRIBA     Consorcio Rodoviario de Bahia - Bahia's Municipal Road Consortia
DER       Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (estadual) -
State Highway Department
DNER      Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (federal) -
Federal Highway Department
GEIPOT    Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes -
Federal Transport Planning Agency
ISTR      Imposto Sobre o Transporte Rodoviario - Road Transport Tax
IULCLG    Imposto Unico Sobre Lubrificantes e Combustiveis -
Fuel Tax
MT        Ministerio dos Transportes - Ministry of Transport
OM        Operational Manual - BNDES' Operational Manual for the National
Feeder Roads Program
ORTN      Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional -
Indexed Accounting Unit
PMIS      Program Management Information System
SA        Subsidiary Agreement
SCT       MT's Transport Coordination Secretariat
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento - Ministry of Planning
SETRAN    Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes - State Secretariat of
Transport
SG        Secretaria-Geral do Ministerio dos Transportes - Secretariat
General of the Ministry of Transport
TRU       Taxa Rodoviaria Unica - Motor Vehicle Tax
State Acronyms - Table 1.4



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
BRAZIL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND ...............................................  1
A. The Highway Subsector and Feeder Roads Development ....      ........  1
B. Financing of State and Municipal Roads ........................ 3
C. Planning-Programing for Feeder Roads ..........................  5
D. Maintenance of Feeder Roads ...................................  5
E. Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector and Perspectives  .... 6
II.  THE INSTITUTIONS:  BNDES, MT, DNER, AND THE SUB-BORROWERS ... ...... 8
A. BNDES' Organization and Strategy for Rural Development ........  8
B. MT's Responsibilities for Feeder Roads ........................ 9
C. DNER's Organization and Role in Feeder Roads .................. 9
D. The Sub-Borrowers ............................................. 10
III. ONGOING PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIENCE UNDER THE PROGRAM . 12
A. Status of Ongoing Feeder Roads Projects Implementation ......... 12
B. Achievementfsand Orientation of the National Feeder Roads
Program   .....................................................  13
C. Existing Bottlenecks in Project Implementation ................. 15
IV. THE PROJECT ................                                           16
A. Project Objectives and Description ............................ 16
B. BNDES' Lending Program and Project Scope ...................... 18
C. Project Financing, Onlending Terms and Disbursement ....      ....... 19
D. Subproject Eligibility, Identification, Preparation and
Evaluation .................................................. 22
E. Subproject Engineering, Technology Development and Maintenance  25
F. Subproject Execution, Procurement, Supervision and Monitoring . 26
G. Project Administration ........................................ 27
H. Policy Development ............................................ 28
I. Bank Review of Subprojects, Project Supervision and Auditing .. 29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Brazil during January-February 1982. The mission comprised
Messrs. Jean Claude Sallier (Engineer) and Jacques Cellier (Economist)
and Mrs. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard (Young Professional).
Mrs. Dominique Lailement (LC2) also participated in the mission.
The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .........      ......................   30
A. Project Justification .......................................    30
B.  Project  Risks   ..............................................  31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......... .. .............   32
TABLES
1.1 Road Network, 1979               .. .34
1.2  State and Municipal Road Network, 1979     ...... .35
1.3  State and Municipal Road Densities, 1979          .      .       36
1.4  Distribution of State and Municipal Roads, 1979   .   .37
1.5  Feeder Roads Components of Special Programs, 1981-1982.          38
1.6 Bank Involvement in Feeder Roads in Brazil .......... ..........  39
1.7  Petroleum Product Price Structure and Road User Charges   .......  40
1.8 DERs' Sources and Uses of Funds, 1976-1980       ....................  41
1.9  State and DER Debts .......     ....................................  42
3.1  Main Features of Ongoing Feeder Roads Projects ............... .  43
3.2  Portfolio of Subprojects and Status ...........................  44
3.3  Distribution of Road Length by ERRs under First and
Second Projects        .............................................  45
4.1  BNDES' Feeder Roads Lending Program, 1977-mid 1985 .. ..........  46
4.2  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements       ...........................  47
4.3  Design Standards for Feeder Roads ............ ..   ...............  48
ANNEXES
1.  Subproject Typical Cycle and Implementation Schedule .... ......  49
2.   Simplifications to the Economic Evaluation of Low Standard
Roads ..............................................................   52
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the National Economic and Social Development
Bank (BNDES) ...........                                      54
2.  Organization of the Secretariat General of the Ministry of
Transport .......  ........................    55
3.  Organization of the Federal Highway Department (DNER) .........  56
MAP
IBRD 14240R - Brazil--Third Feeder Roads Project, Highway Network



I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Highway Subsector and Feeder Roads Development
1.01      The large area of Brazil, combined with an abundance of
agricultural acreage and inland mineral resources, has made transportation
a crucial element in the development of the economy.  Road transport is the
dominant mode, carrying 70% of freight and 97% of passenger traffic.
Historically, the country's highway network first fanned out from its major
ports. Over the last 20 years, emphasis has been placed on the integration
of the hinterland regions.  Brazil has about 1.4 million km of roads; of
these, 6% are federal highways, 9% are state highways and 85% are municipal
roads (Table 1.1). The federal highways, which form the backbone of the
interstate network, extend all over the country; 54% of their total length
(46,000 km out of a total of 85,000 km) is now paved.  Complementary to the
federal system, there are about 118,000 km of state arterial highways and
collector roads, of which 27% are paved. The municipal roads, which total a
length of approximately 1.2 million km, are mostly low standard seasonal
feeder roads and tracks (Table 1.2).
1.02      The state and municipal road networks are still poorly developed
and are unevenly distributed. They are better developed in the southern and
southeastern regions, which contain about 60% of the population and have the
highest concentration of paved highways. There are sparsely populated and
undeveloped regions, in particular the north and centerwest, with relatively
low densities of roads, mostly of low standard and poorly maintained. The
northeast region lies between these two extremes; it has been settled and
populated for years and has a road density close to the country's average
of about 153 m per km2 (Table 1.3). The development of the network is uneven
between higher and lower income states; the 19 low-income states and federal
territories, which represent 83% of the country's area, account for only 44%
of the total state and municipal road length and 38% of the paved roads
(Table 1.4).
1.03      The federal and state highway systems were built mostly during the
30-year period starting in 1946 when the National Highway Fund was created.
The network has been growing at an average rate of about 4% annually, with
the most rapid growth in the federal system. Road investments during the
seventies, which represented about 15% of the country's gross fixed capital
investment, were concentrated on federal and state highways. Since 1975,
development of new highways has almost stopped, and paving has been reduced
considerably, focusing on the state highways in the more developed southern
and southeastern regions.  States have invested very little in feeder roads,
giving priority to their highway networks, and most of the municipalities
have been lacking sufficient resources to undertake road investments.  It is
only recently that investments in feeder roads have started to develop on a
significant scale.
1.04      Since 1975, transport policy has reflected the Federal Government's
endeavor to reduce Brazil's dependence on imported oil and to alleviate the
impact of high prices of petroleum products on transport costs. This policy
has led to a higher emphasis on rail and water transport. Although the
highway subsector still receives a major share of the resources invested in
the transport sector, the Federal Government policy is to channel increased



- 2 -
proportions of the resources to other subsectors. Recent transport policy
has also been shaped by the Federal Government's attempt to restrain public
expenditures through increased central control over public agencies.  In the
highway subsector, the former emphasis put on the extension and paving of the
federal and state highway systems has shifted over the last few years toward
rehabilitation and maintenance. The expenditures of the Federal Highway
Department (DNER) for highway construction decreased, between 1975 and 1980,
from 46% to 21% of its total expenditures, about two-thirds in real terms.
The strategy for maintenance has been to reduce DNER's force account
operations through increased contracting and delegation to the State Highway
Departments (DERs); delegation has progressed less rapidly than initially
anticipated because of the states' insistance that deteriorated federal high-
ways be rehabilitated and strengthened before being passed to their respon-
sibility. More recently, the Federal Government has started to increase its
support to the states for constructing and improving state and municipal
feeder roads with the objective of promoting rural development and agricul-
tural production in areas of high economic potential. This support has
materialized in a number of programs implemented through various agencies.
1.05      The feeder roads programs supported by the Federal Government are:
(a)  National Feeder Roads Program.  Started in 1967, this program is
administered by Brazil's National Economic and Social Development
Bank (BNDES) with the technical assistance of DNER. The Program
has been supported first by a USAID loan (US$25 million) and, from
1976 onward, by a first Bank Loan (Loan 1207-BR, US$55.0 million)
and, in 1979, a second Loan (Loan 1730-BR, US$110.0 million).
BNDES acts as an apex institution, onlending to DERs and to
municipal road consortia to finance feeder roads projects which are
prepared and implemented following selection criteria and technical
requirements spelled out in a Manual prepared by BNDES/DNER and
agreed by the Bank (Chapter III).
(b)  Special Programs.  These programs are regional and local rural
development programs with feeder roads components, such as
POLONORDESTE, POLOCENTRO, POLAMAZONIA and POLONOROESTE
(Table 1.5). They are administered at the federal level by the
Ministries of Planning (SEPLAN), Agriculture, Interior and
Transport (MT), and a number of federal and regional agencies are
also involved in their administration, such as INCRA (colonization
and land tenure federal agency), the Military Forces, and SUDENE,
SUDAM and SUDECO (regional development agencies). Some of these
programs include Bank-financed rural development projects
(Table 1.6).
(c)  Agrovias Program.  This program, recently created by Presidential
Decree No. 86.760, dated December 19, 1981, is aimed at providing
special federal grant contributions for the construction or
improvement of federal, state and municipal roads. A fund of
Cr$ 25 billion has been allocated to this program for 1982.



- 3 -
1.06      There is some degree of specialization among programs.  The
National Feeder Roads Program is oriented mainly toward low standard state
and municipal roads supporting agricultural and rural development; special
programs generally include minimum standard farm-to-market roads; the
Agrovias Program, of which fields of application are not clearly defined,
would be primarily directed to high standard roads, part of - or giving
access to - the federal highway network. Nevertheless, there are overlaps,
and the related cost-sharing arrangements differ significantly. Because of
the multiplicity of agencies involved, selection criteria and preparation
requirements vary widely.  This factor tends to preempt planning efforts at
the state level and may also tend to distort state highway programs in favor
of construction to the detriment of maintenance and rehabilitation.
B. Financing of State and Municipal Roads
1.07      Road expenditures in Brazil are financed by means of road user
charges, general revenue appropriations and domestic and foreign borrowing.
Of all the different road user charges, four items - a fuel tax; a road
transport tax, which is levied on inter-state and inter-municipality freight
and passenger movements; a motor vehicle tax; and road tolls - have their
proceeds entirely or partly channeled back to the highway subsector. Total
revenues from these specific road user charges increased significantly (by
about 75% in real terms) in 1976 as a result of drastic increases of the fuel
tax aimed at inhibiting consumption.  Since 1976, revenues have declined
gradually in real terms; they covered only 82% of the total road expenditures
of DNER and the DERs in 1980 (against 94% in 1976), not taking account of the
municipalities' expenditures for roads, and despite the decrease of overall
road expenditures (Table 1.7). The Federal Government policy has been to
reduce fuel tax proceeds which are directly channeled to the federal and
state highway agencies in order to restore its control over public expendi-
tures. The prices of petroleum products, however, have been continually
adjusted upward since 1975 (Table .1.7); gasoline prices are now at an inter-
nationally high level (US$2.47 per gallon, November 1982), and no subsidy is
involved (see Northwest Highway Project, Appraisal Report No. 3532b-BR).
1.08      Fuel tax proceeds are allocated among the Federation (60% of total
proceeds), the states (32%) and the municipalities (8%), according to a
system of quotas which differentiates between the size and population of the
administrative entity, its fuel consumption and its oil production, if any.
Revenues from the road transport tax are directed mainly to the Federal
Government budget; 20% only are redistributed to the states. The motor
vehicle tax proceeds are redistributed between the Federation (55%) and the
states (45%), which redistribute their shares between state agencies (DERs in
particular) and the municipalities (in general 10% to 20%) according to their
own legislation. The proceeds of these taxes used to be earmarked for road
plan investments or related loan guarantees (fuel tax), for road improvement,
maintenance or signalization (motor vehicle tax) or for road safety or
freight and passenger terminal investments (road transport tax). However, a
process of gradual elimination of the earmarking of the Federation's shares
in these taxes, started in 1979, has been completed in 1982.  State and
municipal shares remain earmarked, but the corresponding funds which used to
be channeled through DNER are now transferred directly from the Treasury to
the states and municipalities by the Bank of Brazil.



- 4 -
1.09       States and municipalities finance their road expenditures from
revenue shares from road user charges, own resources, federal contributions
to special programs and domestic and foreign borrowing.  States' own
resources originate mostly from a value added tax which is applied at the
source of transactions of goods. Municipalities' own resources are derived
from a tax levied on services and from a share in the state's value added tax
collected in the municipality. Federal contributions to special programs are
allocated by SEPLAN from the Federal Government budget or from special devel-
opment funds (PIN, PROTERRA). State DERs also receive funds from DNER for
specific tasks, in particular for maintaining sections of the federal highway
network and from municipalities for maintaining municipal roads, and borrow
money from national banks (BNDES and regional development banks) and from
international banks.
1.iO       DERs' total revenues remained relatively constant in real terms
over the period 1976-1979.  The decrease of their revenue shares from road
user charges, which covered only 33% of their total expenditures in 1979
as against 41% in 1976, was compensated for by increased funding from states'
own resources, increased federal contributions to special programs and
increased domestic borrowing (Table 1.8). DERs were thus able to maintain,
over that period, the level of their total expenditures at about US$1.5 bil-
lion equivalent:
Summary of DERs' Revenues, and Sources and Uses of Funds, 1976-1979
1976    1977    1978    1979
Total revenues (Jan. 1981 Cr$ billion)         136      137      160      133
Of which (% of total revenues):                100      100      100      100
- road user charges                             41       41       30       33
- state own resources                           39       38       45       40
- borrowing                                      7        6       10        9
- others                                        13       15       15       18
Total expenditures (% of total)                100      100      100      100
- recurrent expenditures                        24       23       22       29
- investments                                   65       61       69       66
- other capital expenditures                    11       16        9        5
1.11      The increased borrowing by DERs, and more generally by the states,
in 1978-1979, affected their debt situation since their total revenues
remained relatively constant in real terms. The Federal Government effected
a number of measures to restore its control over state and municipality
finances and over public enterprises. All borrowing, in particular, is now
subject to the approval of the Central Bank and a Secretariat for the Control
of State Enterprises (SEST), an entity recently created within SEPLAN. These
measures have succeeded in maintaining the debt of the states within
appropriate limits, and the debts of the DERs generally stand, with a few
exceptions, at a low level (Table 1.9).



-5 -
1.12      The termination, in 1980, of DNER's control over DERs' expen  :?res
and of the consequent centralization, at federal level, of DERs' budget data
now renders difficult the followup of road expenditures by the states and
their financing and calls for an alternative information system. Municipali-
ties' road expenditures are not documented at all.  A review of the current
road user charges system and of its adequacy for the respective needs of the
Federation, the states and the municipalities is currently being made by
the Federal Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT); its results, expected at the
end of 1982, would serve as a basis to define corrective measures, in
particular to ensure appropriate funding to support the upgrading of the
maintenance of state and municipal roads (para 4.36).
C. Planning-Programing for Feeder Roads
1.13      Despite the recognized crucial contribution of improved feeder
roads to economic and social development, it was only in 1974 that a first
attempt toward feeder roads planning was made through the preparation of
state and municipal road master plans. However, this planning effort has
been conducted by DERs under DNER coordination, with insufficient considera-
tion to other sectors, especially to agriculture. A multisectoral approach
has been initiated with the preparation and implementation of rural develop-
ment projects in specific areas. However, many other feeder roads invest-
ments in the states have not been carefully planned.  The National Feeder
Roads Program, in 1976, introduced selection criteria and evaluation
methodologies as a first step to upgrade planning for feeder roads.  There is
a need to strengthen this effort and to expand a more comprehensive
multisectoral approach to planning (para 4.16).
1.14      The programing of feeder roads investments at state level has to
rely on the availability of resources under federal programs. For special
programs, since state applications for federal funds are reviewed on a yearly
basis by SEPLAN and the ministries involved, programing is limited to annual
budgeting. However, the Federal Government is currently preparing to set up
new procedures to establish rollover three-year programs. Under the National
Feeder Roads Program, reliable funding is provided to sub-borrowers (states
and municipalities) which allows them to program their investments on a
pluri-annual basis within the amount of the subloan. This arrangement has
promoted the building-up of investment programs in the states. Further
development of the National Feeder Roads Program would, by ensuring
appropriate funding, support the continuity of state efforts for programing
(para 4.05).
D. Maintenance of Feeder Roads
1.15      Organizational and financial difficulties make maintenance of
municipal rural roads a serious area of concern in Brazil. Most of the 4,000
municipalities have only a limited view of road maintenance oriented toward
emergency repairs. The annual costs of desirable routine maintenance range
between about US$250 and US$1,200 equivalent per km, while the cost of
periodic regraveling ranges between US$6,000 and US$8,000 per km. The annual
cost of adequately maintaining the 1.2 million-km municipal network would be
in excess of US$1 billion. In addition, rehabilitation of about one-third of
the municipal network would be economically justified; this rehabilitation



-6-
would cost about US$6 billion on the basis of a conservative average cost of
US$15,000 per km. The municipal institutions are not prepared, or capable,
for the time being, to face such a problem.
1.16      The municipalities rely on DERs to handle the maintenance of their
most important rural roads through contract agreements (Convenios) with
DERs. This is generally the case for municipal roads financed by the Bank
under the ongoing Feeder Roads and Rural Development Projects.
Organizational efforts are actually emerging, such as (a) the creation,
within some DERs, of departments in charge of assistance to municipalities
and (b) the strengthening of municipal road consortia directed toward the
development of their road maintenance activities. The Bank has an active
role in upgrading the maintenance capability of DERs and municipalities
through (a) the maintenance components of highway projects in Minas Gerais,
Parana and Rio Grande do Sul and (b) the feeder road components of 15 rural
development projects, which include technical assistance, training and
purchase of equipment for maintenance of rural roads.
1.17      Road maintenance cannot be dealt with in isolated sections but,
rather, should be handled on a network basis. The entire workload and insti-
tutional and funding requirements have to be considered. The current funding
system does not provide municipalities with sufficient resources to carry out
their maintenance responsibilities. Further, it may also very well tend to
divert state resources away from maintenance to ensure counterpart funding of
investment programs supported by the Federal Government. Municipalities have
to rely on DERs for technical assistance and equipment, and DERs, which are
invariably short of funds, also have to upgrade their technical and manage-
rial capabilities. There is a need for statewide maintenance programs with a
focus on the needs of the municipalities. The obstacles are many for build-
ing up the necessary institutional capacities: public attitudes, staff
capacities, budgeting and planning procedures, and organization techniques.
1.18      The development of statewide maintenance programs would require
assistance from the Federal Government to ensure adequate funding and the
dissemination of an appropriate technology. It is evident that efficient
maintenance systems cannot be established in less than 15 or 20 years. The
assistance of the Federal Government would have to be carefully planned and
implemented over a period of many years. MT is now aware, as its contribu-
tion to feeder roads investments is expanding, of the need to prepare and
implement this federal assistance to states and municipalities. As a start,
MT is committed to prepare, and finalize before December 31, 1983, a strategy
and a plan of action to upgrade states' and municipalities' maintenance
capabilities (paras 4.36-4.37). The proposed project would also include
assessments by BNDES/DNER of sub-borrowers' maintenance capabilities before
project funds are committed, and studies and training of staff financed under
the subloans (para 4.25).
E. Bank Involvement in the Highway Subsector and Perspectives
1.19      The Bank's continuous and active involvement in the Brazilian high-
way subsector dates to 1964 when an economic mission recommended a comprehen-
sive survey of the sector. The ensuing National Transport Study, which was



carried out in two phases from 1965 to 1970, set the basis for the rapid
expansion of the primary road network and the improvement of institutions for
its support. Since 1968, seven loans totaling US$730 million have supported
the construction and improvement of about 7,000 km of federal and some state
highways, rehabilitation of about 1,500 km and the preparation of final
engineering designs for more than 9,000 km. Construction and improvement
of priority highways under the first five highway projects have been success-
fully completed by DNER and some states.
1.20      Since 1974, the focus of Bank projects has shifted to road mainte-
nance and rehabilitation and to supporting the construction of feeder roads.
The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR) for US$110 million initiated Bank
involvement in maintenance.  It was followed, in 1979, by a loan of
US$114 million for road maintenance and rehabilitation (Sixth Highway
Project, Loan 1557-BR). The First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR), for
US$55 million, was approved in 1976. An innovative feature of this project
was the channeling, through BNDES, of Bank support toward the improvement of
secondary and feeder roads, which comes under the responsibility of the
states and municipalities. A Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR,
dated June 20, 1979), for US$110 million, provided continuity to the Program
assisted by the first project. The Northwest Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR,
signed in December 1981), for US$240 million, is part of the Northwest Region
Development Program and consists of the reconstruction of about 1,084 km of a
federal highway, the strengthening of Rondonia's highway agency, and the
construction of about 1,000 km of feeder roads.
1.21      In addition, 15 Bank-financed rural development projects in Brazil
have included rural roads components with a total cost of about US$260 mil-
lion (Table 1.6). Besides helping to maintain essential municipal rural
access and feeder roads for year-round transit, these project components are
supporting initial strengthening of state and municipal road maintenance
organizations.
1.22      Bank lending objectives in the subsector are to support institu-
tional and policy development aimed at ensuring adequate maintenance of the
federal, state and municipal road networks and the necessary development of
state and municipal feeder road systems. For feeder road systems develop-
ment, the basic objectives of Bank support are to upgrade planning and imple-
mentation of feeder road programs on a decentralized basis, and to rational-
ize federal programs and related funding systems. Maintenance of the federal
highways requires the continuation of the delegation program together with
contracting maintenance of the primary interstate network. The objective of
Bank support for maintenance of state and municipal roads is to upgrade
states' and municipalities' maintenance capabilities. The Bank approach to
this problem would be broadened to support the definition of a comprehensive
maintenance strategy by the Federal Government.



- 8 -
II. THE INSTITUTIONS: BNDES, MT, DNER AND THE SUB-BORROWERS
A.   BNDES' Organization and Strategy for Rural Development
(i) BNDES' Organization
2.01      BNDES is a public company which has administrative and financial
autonomy and independent judicial personality and has been recently placed
under the jurisdiction of the Federal Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN). BNDES
is the main instrument of the Federal Government's investment policy. Its
purpose is to support programs and projects, works and services connected
with the development of the national economy; its action is closely linked to
the Federal Government Development Plan. BNDES is governed by an
Administrative Council, chaired by the President of BNDES, whose members are
appointed by the President of the Federative Republic. Its assets,
liabilities and accounts are monitored by a Fiscal Council, whose three
members are also appointed by the President of the Republic. The Board of
Managing Directors, chaired by BNDES' President, has five Directors appointed
by the Minister in charge. BNDES is structured into five operational direc-
torates: Planning, Projects I, Projects II, Projects III, and Participations;
and four non-operational directorates: Administration, Finance, Legal and
Representation (Chart 1). Each directorate is headed by a Superintendent who
reports to the Director in charge.
2.02      The National Feeder Roads Program is in the Projects II direc-
torate. In 1980, the administration of the Program was transferred from the
Infrastructure Department to the Agriculture Department (DEAGR) within the
same directorate. This administrative reorganization reflected the evolution
of the Program toward low standard rural roads and BNDES' policy to promote a
more integrated approach to rural development. DEAGR is structured into four
operational units and a legal unit, each of which is headed by a manager.
Three of the operational units have regional responsibilities; the fourth is
in charge of the National Feeder Roads Program. The Feeder Roads Working
Group, which was strengthened gradually under the First and Second Projects,
is now the largest specialized project group in BNDES. It is staffed with 20
professionals of adequate qualifications - nine road engineers, four econo-
mists, three engineer/economists, two legal advisors and two accountants -
four of whom are assigned to BNDES' regional offices in Recife and Sao Paulo.
Although there is still room to improve its efficiency, BNDES' Feeder Roads
Working Group now constitutes an important and effective instrument for
appraising and supervising feeder roads projects (para 3.11).
(ii) BNDES' Rural Development Strategy
2.03      BNDES' programs to promote rural development are directed primarily
to infrastructure which supports agricultural production, storage and trans-
port, and to agro-industries. BNDES-financed projects cover irrigation,
storage facilities, rural communications, rural electrification, roads,
sanitary equipment, agricultural research and experimental stations, agro-
industries, seed improvement and crop marketing. BNDES' current strategy for
rural development is to support the integration of the efforts made by the
various federal and state agencies carrying out similar or complementary



- 9 -
programs.  This strategy, initiated in 1980, calls for the promotion of a
multi-sectoral integrated approach for rural development planning and for a
shift of BNDES' lending program from primarily sectoral projects to inte-
grated rural development projects (PDRI). BNDES currently participates in
the financing of six major PDRI in the States of Piaui, Ceara, Bahia, Mato
Grosso do Sul, Santa Catarina and Goias, representing a total investment of
about US$500 million equivalent, including about US$70 million equivalent for
feeder roads, and a participation of BNDES of about US$150 million equiva-
lent. The National Feeder Roads Program is viewed by BNDES as a major
instrument to implement this rural development strategy. The Project has
been designed accordingly (para 4.16).
B. MT's Responsibilities for Feeder Roads
2.04      The role of MT in feeder roads development has up to now been
limited to the administration of the feeder roads components of the special
programs (para 1.05). MT's responsibilities in this respect are to review
states' investment programing, recommend to SEPLAN for budget or special
funds allocations, follow up implementation and make or authorize payments
to state executing agencies. The elimination of the earmarking of the
Federation's shares in road user tax revenues and the increased control of
the Federal Government over public expenditures are currently leading to an
increased role of MT in feeder roads investments. MT has taken over from
DNER, at the beginning of 1982, the responsibility for funding the federal
grant contribution to the National Feeder Roads Program. MT has also, in
early 1982, been assigned the responsibility of promoting the newly created
Agrovias Program.
2.05      Responsibility for administering the federal feeder roads programs
is vested in the Ministry's Secretariat-General (SG). SG is in charge of
planning, programing and budgeting, and it coordinates and supervises the
activities of the various units of the Ministry and agencies under the
Ministry's jurisdiction. The Secretary-General reports directly to the
Minister of Transport. SG is structured into five Secretariats: Special
Activities, Transport Coordination, Programing-Budgeting, Administrative
Modernization and International Affairs (Chart 2). A Special Programs Unit
recently transferred from the Special Activities Secretariat to the Transport
Coordination Secretariat (SCT) performs the various tasks related to the
administration of the Special Programs. This Unit presently has a suffi-
cient, competent staff for the workload involved. However, the increased
involvement of MT in feeder roads development will require SCT to strengthen
its capacity to follow up the implementation of the programs (para 4.35).
C. DNER's Organization and Role in Feeder Roads
2.06      DNER is responsible primarily for administering the federal highway
network. It is headed by a Director General appointed by the President of
the Republic and assisted by a Deputy Director General appointed by the
Minister of Transport. DNER is structured into nine Directorates, the heads
of which, together with the Deputy Director General, form the Administrative
Council, presided over by the Director General (Chart 3). DNER operates in
each State through its Federal Highway District (DRF), headed by a District
Engineer. Each DRF is structured into Residencies (or subdistricts), which



- 10 -
are operational units in charge of construction and maintenance. DNER's
organization and operations were assessed recently, during the appraisal of
the Northwest Highway Project (Report No. 3532b-BR).
2.07      DNER has been involved in the implementation of the National Feeder
Roads Program since 1970. When the First Project (Loan 1207-BR) was started,
DNER's responsibilities were defined to assist in the review of the proposed
subprojects, in particular to exchange views on: (a) their technical and
economic feasibility; (b) the technical specifications retained and cost
estimates; (c) their compatibility with the projects' objectives and with
federal, state and municipal road master plans; (d) the sub-borrowers'
capabilities to prepare and monitor the subprojects and maintain the roads to
be built; and (e) the suitability of the subproject execution plan, and
assistance to BNDES in monitoring the execution of the projects. For the
purpose of that assistance, DNER first created two working groups, within its
Directorates of Planning and Construction respectively, which were later
merged into the existing Feeder Roads Working Group, placed under DNER's
Deputy Director General. This Group includes two economists, six engineers,
one lawyer and one accountant. In addition to carrying out this technical
assistance, DNER has been reviewing sub-borrowers' bidding and contracting
procedures and approving contract award decisions, as required by its own
regulations. In order to face the increased workload that the implementation
of the Agrovias Program will bring, DNER has strengthened its Feeder Roads
Working Group and increased its capacity to review and appraise subprojects,
and intends to decentralize execution supervision to the level of its
Residencies. A new head has been nominated to coordinate the activities of
the Feeder Roads Working Group which will receive assistance from GEIPOT for
the appraisal of projects. The organization and staffing of DNER's strength-
ened Feeder Roads Working Group were reviewed by the Bank during negotia-
tions.
D. The Sub-Borrowers
2.08      Under the First Project (Loan 1207-BR), state highway departments
and municipal road consortia were qualified to be sub-borrowers. Under the
Second Project (Loan 1730-BR), the municipalities have been allowed to seek
assistance directly, but none of them have done so because of their very
limited financial and institutional capabilities. Progress achieved with
municipal road consortia (two subloans under the First Loan and four subloans
under the Second Loan) has confirmed the suitability of such consortia for
preparing and implementing municipal road investments. Although the Program
would remain open to individual municipalities, it is expected that the
participation of municipalities would continue to be through consortia
(para 2.11).
(i) State Highway Departments
2.09      Each state has a highway department (DER), responsible for the
construction and maintenance of the state highway network. With the excep-
tion of two autonomous DERs in Ceara and Rio Grande do Sul, which are
directly responsible to the State Governor, DERs generally report to the
state's Secretary of Public Works or of Transport (SETRAN). DERs are
governed by a Highway Council which includes the DER Director General, a
representative of SETRAN and a representative of the State Engineering



- 11 -
Association, and is headed by an independent engineer appointed by the
Governor. The organization of the DERs is generally similar to that of
DNER. They are structured into a number of Directorates, the most important
of which are: Construction, Maintenance, Planning, Administration and
Finance. DERs also have a decentralized structure of Residencies. In addi-
tion to their responsibilities for state highway networks, DERs maintain,
under DNER's supervision, some of the federal highways within their state and
assist municipalities in the maintenance of municipal roads.
2.10      Construction, rehabilitation and improvement works are generally
contracted, and maintenance is carried out by force account. DERs cooperate
with SETRAN and the Secretariats of Planning for the preparation of state
highway master plans. Recently, some DERs have cooperated more directly with
the state agricultural agencies in preparing and implementing integrated
rural development programs and projects, which has led to the creation of
joint DER-agriculture planning groups.  The current reduction of the DERs'
revenue shares from road user taxation and the increased contributions of the
states to DER financing are leading to an increased control of the state
governments, through their Secretariats of Planning. It is a major objective
of the National Feeder Roads Program for the next five years to promote a
pluri-sectoral integrated approach to feeder roads planning and, in particu-
lar, to associate state agriculture and planning agencies in the definition
of feeder roads projects (para 4.16).
(ii) Municipal Road Consortia
2.11      Municipal road consortia and other similar joint municipal agencies
have developed as a means for municipalities to join forces in the procure-
ment and use of their scarce resources and to have appropriate institutional
and technical capabilities that most of them could not have individually.
These consortia are incorporated as companies under state law. In general,
shares are held by the state or the state DER, in a proportion which varies
from one state to another, and by the municipalities. In some cases, other
state organizations also participate. A consortium is governed by a General
Assembly of shareholder representatives and administered by a Board of
Directors. Finances are usually controlled by a Fiscal Council consisting of
three members elected according to specific state laws on corporations.
2.12      The primary purpose of municipal road consortia is the construction
of an integrated municipal road system.  In most cases, they do not have a
capacity of their own to execute significant works, which generally are
contracted out. However, many of them are now more involved in the mainte-
nance of municipal roads and are developing a capacity for maintenance and
spot improvement works. They also purchase maintenance equipment for the
participating municipalities and provide them with technical advice. Their
technical competence in planning, design, supervision of works and monitoring
of projects varies considerably from one consortium to another. Some of them
have qualified professionals, while others are technically weak. For this
reason, detailed assessments of the consortia capabilities have proved
necessary before any onlending under the National Feeder Roads Program is
undertaken. The Manual (para 3.05) specifies the details of these assess-
ments, which have proved satisfactory under the First and Second Projects.



- 12 -
III. ONGOING PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIENCE UNDER THE PROGRAM
A. Status of Ongoing Feeder Roads Projects Implementation
3.01      The ongoing First and Second Feeder Roads Projects (Loans 1207-BR,
1730-BR) and the feeder roads component of the Northwest Highway Project
(Loan 2062-BR) consist of 34 subprojects in 21 states, comprising about
11,200 km of roads divided into 430 different links and 301 bridges. The
investment cost of these subprojects totals about US$577.2 million equiva-
lent; it is distributed as follows: low income states - US$375.0 million
equivalent (65%); middle income states - US$163.3 million equivalent (28%);
and high income State (Sao Paulo) - US$38.9 million equivalent (7%)
(Table 3.1).
3.02      The First Feeder Roads Loan (Loan 1207-BR, US$55 million, March
1976) became effective in July 1976 and was fully committed, by mid-1980, to
16 subprojects in 12 states. The commitment period took four years instead
of 1.5 years as initially planned because the difficulties in launching the
Program were underestimated. The Second Loan (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million,
June 1979), which became effective in December 1979, is now fully committed
by BNDES. The Second Project consists of 16 subprojects in 15 states.
Because of a significant decrease, between December 1979 and March 1981, in
the purchasing power of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which subloans are
made, the BNDES/DNER/IBRD-financed share of the investment was considerably
reduced, and many subprojects were placed beyond the capacity of the sub-
borrowers. A reformulation of both projects was undertaken by mid-1981 to
reduce the scope of some subprojects and to restore BNDES/DNER/IBRD
participation to its initial level. All of the 19 subprojects targeted by
the reformulation have been renegotiated, and 16 new subloans financed under
the Second Loan have been approved to provide additional financing to ten
subprojects under the First Project and to six subprojects under the Second
Project. The feeder roads component of the Northwest Highway Project (Loan
2062-BR, US$240 million, of which US$14.8 million for feeder roads, December
1981), which is prepared and implemented under the same mechanisms as the
Second Project, consists of two subprojects in the States of Rondonia and
Mato Grosso (Table 3.2).
3.03      The physical implementation of the First Project, which had reached
58% at the end of September 1982, is now progressing well. Disbursements
under the first loan (1207-BR) amounted to about US$29.4 million as of
November 1, 1982; they should reach about US$34 million by the end of 1982
and be completed by the end of 1983. The startup phase of the Second Project
is completed, and the phase of implementation is under way; physical comple-
tion stood at about 19% as of September 30, 1982. Disbursements under the
Second Loan (1730-BR) have started to increase; they were at about
US$23.3 million as of November 1, 1982, which is broadly in line with
appraisal estimates. Further progress in the implementation of the Second
Project is expected to follow appraisal forecasts up to completion, scheduled
for June 30, 1986. The implementation of the feeder roads component of the
Northwest Highway Project has started and is scheduled to be completed by the
end of 1984.



- 13 -
B. Achievements and Orientation of the National Feeder Roads Program
3.04      Considering the immense need for feeder roads in Brazil, the scope
of the ongoing feeder roads projects (11,000 km, over a ten-year period) is
relatively limited; together these projects represent less than 10% of the
total road investment effort of the states during the corresponding time
period. However, the projects have already achieved significant impact on
the areas of institution-building and of upgrading of methods and
techniques. Further development of the National Feeder Roads Program would
be oriented toward strengthening these achievements.
3.05      A major objective of the Program has been to gradually upgrade the
capacity of the states and municipalities for planning and implementation of
feeder roads investments and to provide increased and reliable funding
for the purpose.  The onlending procedures which have been established under
the First and Second Projects are aimed at promoting appropriate techniques
for the preparation of feeder roads projects, focusing on the selection of
clearly economically justified investments and on the design of low standard
roads better adapted to actual needs. Detailed guidelines for subproject
preparation, evaluation, implementation and monitoring have been laid out in
a Manual (Manual de Rodovias Vicinais, BNDES/DNER/IBRD), prepared by
BNDES/DNER and agreed by the Bank, and are now consistently followed in the
states, even for projects outside the Program.
3.06      The first project supported mainly the construction or improvement
of secondary roads of high standards connected to the federal highway
network. The second project was deliberately oriented toward low standard
rural roads. The Manual, which was revised for the second project, offers
five sets of specified design standards, from class A road to class E road
(Table 4.3). In the first project, 98% of the road investments selected were
class A or B roads; 68% of those selected under the second project were low
standard class C, D or E roads (Table 3.1). This evolution of the Program
reflected a greater concern for rural development within BNDES, which has
generally performed well in ensuring that sub-borrowers select roads aiming
at the development of rural areas.
3.07      The Program has also supported the trend toward the adoption of
more appropriate techniques for the design and construction of low-cost rural
roads. Some DERs (Minas Gerais, Ceara) and Municipal Road Consortia (Bahia,
Rio Grande do Sul) have tested simplified final designs, and some others are
planning to use more labor-intensive construction techniques (Piaui) or to
adopt new construction specifications (Acre, Rondonia, Parana, Sao Paulo).
DNER has strongly encouraged this trend toward low cost construction tech-
niques through its Working Group. The Feeder Roads Projects are considered
today not only as a financial assistance but also as a normative tool to
promote technical progress in the design and construction of feeder roads.
However, there is still much to be done. Many sections are still over-
designed. Further development of the Program would aim at continuing the
efforts made to disseminate appropriate techniques of design and construction
(paras 4.23-4.24).
3.08      The necessity of a well defined methodology for subproject evalua-
tion has been recognized. Two methods are offered in the Manual: (a) in
comparatively developed areas, where there is some vehicular traffic, the



- 14 -
traditional consumer surplus (vehicle operating cost savings) approach is
accepted; and (b) in lesser developed areas, where there is minimal or no
traffic, the producer surplus (value-added) method is recommended. In
addition, a combination of the two methods is accepted as long as no double
counting of benefits is incurred, i.e., vehicle operating cost savings are
considered only for non-agriculture-related traffic. These methods are now
consistently used in the preparation of feasibility studies. They have led
to the selection of investments, under the first two projects, of which
estimated economic rates of return range, in general, between 12% and 30%,
with some as high as 40% (Table 3.3).
3.09      The efforts made under the first two projects, however, have
concentrated on feasibility studies. Although some efforts have been made to
define subprojects in coordination with agricultural development programs,
the approach to feeder roads planning has remained essentially sectoral,
without sufficient coordination with other sectors. An important objective
of the Program for the next five years would be to promote a more
comprehensive approach to feeder roads planning, which would integrate the
various sectors involved in the development of the state economies, in
particular in rural development.
3.10      The financing arrangements which have been developed under the
First and Second Projects require significant contributions from the
states, in the form of counterpart funding and loan servicing, under finan-
cial conditions which have been differentiated between lower and higher
income states. These arrangements, together with a number of specific
covenants, have proved satisfactory to entice sub-borrowers to make an
optimum use of the resources available under the Program; they will be
continued (para 4.08). However, financial and technical capabilities of
sub-borrowers vary widely from lower to higher income states. Now that these
capabilities have been assessed through the appraisal and implementation of
ongoing subprojects, there is a need to adjust subloan amounts and timing
correspondingly. The lending program for the next five years will have, as
an important objective, the ensurance of continuity of the efforts made by
the states to build up a pipeline of feeder roads investments in line with
their requirements and with their financing and implementation capabilities
(para 4.05).
3.11      The institutional system set up to implement and administer the
Program associates the development banking experience of BNDES and the
technical experience of DNER. BNDES' Feeder Roads Working Group is staffed
with 20 competent professionals who are now familiar with the techniques of
preparation, appraisal and supervision of feeder roads projects and with the
Program's procedures. The technical assistance provided by the engineers and
economists of DNER's Feeder Roads Working Group has allowed them to
constantly improve the quality of the appraisal reports. The working groups
are now capable of appraising 12 subprojects per year, which corresponds
approximately to a new subproject every two years in each state and is
sufficient to implement the proposed project without hiring additional
personnel. The followup of the implementation of subprojects is also
improving. However, the role of DNER did not fully develop, as initially
planned, in capitalizing on experience in feeder road works and disseminating
appropriate design and construction techniques, nor in assisting BNDES in
monitoring the Program. BNDES' management of the Program did not fully
succeed in maintaining updated data of the projects' execution (para 4.31).



- 15 -
The recent policy of the Federal Government to increase its support to feeder
roads investments is currently leading to an increased involvement of MT and
DNER in the administration of the Program. DNER's new management is aware of
the need to strengthen its technical assistance to BNDES and to the
sub-borrowers, and MT intends to participate, together with BNDES and DNER
within the Joint Steering Committee, in the orientation of the Program and
the coordination of the two working groups (para 4.34).
C. Existing Bottlenecks in Project Implementation
3.12      The experience gained under the ongoing Feeder Roads Projects has
highlighted a number of shortcomings in project implementation which would be
addressed under the proposed project.
3.13      The shortcomings occurring between subproject identification and
subloan effectiveness are as follows:
(a)  Identification: the applications presented by the sub-borrowers
(Carta Consulta) were generally vague, with unrealistic physical
targets and cost estimates.
(b)  Commitment: BNDES' early commitment (enquadramento), upon receipt
of the application, led to premature allocation of project funds.
(c)  Feasibility Studies: some feasibility studies have taken up to one
year because of insufficient followup and over-rigid economic
justification requirements for low standard rural roads.
(d)  Appraisal: insufficient contingency provisions were included in the
subloans, which led to serious implementation difficulties.
(e)  Effectiveness: approval of the subloan by the State Congress and
debt control by the Central Bank of Brazil or SEST have caused
delays in subproject initiation.
3.14      Between effectiveness and completion of the works, the problems
encountered have been the following:
(a)  final designs have proved unsuitable for low standard roads and
often overdesigned.
(b)  supervision of procurement has been adequate but carried out
through cumbersome administrative procedures which have delayed
implementation.
(c)  supervision of the works by the sub-borrowers has been
satisfactory; however, DNER's involvement in the supervision of the
works has been insufficient.
A number of measures have been agreed to tackle the shortcomings and problems
at the various stages of the subproject cycle, i.e., identification
(para 4.16), commitment (para 4.17), feasibility study (paras 4.18-4.19),
appraisal (para 4.21), effectiveness (para 4.16), final engineering
(para 4.23), procurement (para 4.28) and supervision (para 4.30).



- 16 -
3.15      The administration of the Program has also suffered from insuffi-
cient internal organization and coordination within the Working Group and
lack of a detailed lending program. The lending operations have been the
result of a marketing process followed by early commitments of funds to sub-
borrowers' applications without adequately taking into account the require-
ments and implementation capacity of the States. Moreover, BNDES was not in
a position to control and forecast the overall lending.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
4.01      The proposed project would support the continuation of the National
Feeder Roads Program administered by BNDES, as well as significant policy
development and institution-building efforts. The proposed project has four
specific objectives:
(a) to ensure the continuity of the efforts made by the states to build
up a pipeline of feeder roads investments in line with their - and
the municipalities' - requirements and implementation capacity;
(b)  to promote a multisectoral approach to feeder roads planning and
programing and to improve and hasten the preparation and implemen-
tation of feeder roads projects on a decentralized basis;
(c) to further strengthen the administration of the Program; and
(d)  to rationalize federal feeder roads programs and to prepare for the
nationwide upgrading of states' and municipalities' maintenance
capabilities.
4.02      To meet these four objectives, the proposed project would consist
of:
(a) provision of subloans for the construction, improvement or rehabil-
itation of a total of approximately 8,000 km of roads for a total
cost of about US$500 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, includ-
ing related final engineering (about 5% of total project costs),
consultant supervision (about 2% of total project cost), and
technical assistance for advisory services and training of staff to
improve the maintenance capability of sub-borrowers (up to a
maximum of 5% of total project costs);
(b) institution-building measures including: (i) improved procedures
and guidance for feeder roads planning, programing and project
preparation and implementation at state and municipality levels;
(ii) development of BNDES' management system for the Program; and
(iii) strengthening of MT's and DNER's participation in the
administration of the Program; and



- 17 -
(c)  development and startup of policies and programs to rationalize
federal programs for feeder roads and to upgrade the maintenance
capabilities of the states and municipalities.
Since the institution-building and policy development components mentioned in
(b) and (c) would be carried out by BNDES and MT respectively, with the
assistance of DNER, as part of these agencies' current responsibilities, ao
costs have been included for these purposes in the project.
4.03      The measures which have been agreed during negotiations would be
enforced through the following documents:
(a) an Addendum to the Manual (AM), prepared by BNDES and DNER,
spelling out the new requirements for subproject preparation and
implementation; the issuance by BNDES and DNER of the agreed AM
would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
(b) an Operational Manual (OM), which would detail the specific actions
to be taken by BNDES to implement the project, and BNDES' internal
procedures and work organization related to the Program; BNDES
would furnish a revised draft of the OM to the Bank by March 31,
1983, and finalize it before June 30, 1983.
(c) a Subsidiary Agreement (SA), which would state the respective
responsibilities of BNDES, MT and DNER under the Program; its
signature by the three entities would be a condition for loan
effectiveness.
(d) a Memorandum of Understanding, which has been furnished to the
Bank, describing the policy actions to be undertaken by MT with the
assistance of DNER.
The Manual, updated through the AM, would continue to guide sub-borrowers in
the various steps of their participation in the Program and to help meet the
Program's objectives for institutional development at state and municipality
levels. In particular, the AM would apply to all subprojects to be approved
under the proposed project, and to ongoing subprojects under the Program, as
long as its application to the latter does not alter subloan agreements in
force or decisions taken prior to its issuance. BNDES' new OM, which would
formalize BNDES' internal procedures and work organization developed under
the First and Second Projects, is aimed, together with a computerized Program
Management Information System (PMIS) to be set up as part of the project, at
developing BNDES' management and monitoring capabilities in line with the
expanding size and complexity of the Program.
4.04      Subprojects may include the following types of civil works and
services:
(a) new construction -- construction of roads, where none existed
before, to the standards specified in the Manual;



- 18 -
(b)  improvements -- upgrading of existing tracks or roads to the
specified standards, substantially along existing alignments,
including paving if shown necessary and feasible;
(c)  rehabilitation -- reconditioning of deteriorated roadways to their
original standards if shown adequate to meet local needs;
(d)  construction or reconstruction of bridges, drainage structures,
side ditches or any other additional work necessary for the
facility to meet the specified standards;
(e)  related final engineering designs, consulting services for works
supervision and specific technical expertise by research and devel-
opment institutions; and
(f)  studies by consultants or specialized institutions for maintenance
assessments and for improvement of maintenance techniques and
organization, and related training of staff.
B. BNDES' Lending Program and Project Scope
4.05      BNDES would organize implementation of the proposed project on the
basis of a tentative lending program, periodically updated, which integrates
the requirements of the states and municipalities as well as the sub-
borrowers' administrative, technical and financial capacities for subproject
preparation-implementation and for maintenance, and finally takes into
account progress achieved on ongoing subprojects. BNDES would undertake the
identification of a new subproject when the implementation of the ongoing
subproject has reached at least 7% and would proceed to subloan signature
when progress has reached about 45%. The limit of US$50 million equivalent
for project funds to be spent in any one state, established under the Second
Project (Loan 1730-BR), would be maintained, and the limit for the Group C
State (Sao Paulo) would be kept at 8% of total project funds, which corre-
sponds to US$40 million equivalent under the proposed project (Table 4.1).
These updated limits were agreed during negotiations.
4.06      The proposed project corresponds to the 1983/mid-1985 time slice of
BNDES' lending program. Subloans planned for beginning-1983 would finance
already studied subprojects estimated at a total cost of about US$48 million
equivalent. These subprojects, for which feasibility studies and preliminary
engineering designs are available, are being reappraised by BNDES; the sub-
borrowers would then proceed with detailed engineering to be financed under
the subloans (para 4.22). In late-1983/early-1984, the Program would include
subloans to states where, because of current progress of ongoing subprojects,
preparation of a new subproject should be undertaken in early 1983 in order
to avoid further disruption in the feeder roads investments in these states.
It also includes subloans for feeder roads projects in the states of Mato
Grosso and Rondonia as agreed under the Northwest Highway Project, and for
states and territories which have not yet received any subloan under the
Program. The proposed project would thus include about 30 subprojects, the
total costs of which would range from US$5 million to US$50 million equiva-
lent, distributed among the 25 states and federal territories and the Federal
District (Table 4.1). Physical implementation would begin in late 1983, when
expenditures under the ongoing projects would start decreasing, and be
completed by mid 1989.



- 19 -
lNES' PEEER R2A.6 EM, 1977-1989
Subproject Total Costs (Current US$ milUon equivalert)
1977 1978 1979  1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988  1989  lTOL
1. FID1ECTS a)t4Nrs
First Project (Loan 1207-BR)  32.9 19.0 42.9  94.8                                '189.6
(Loan 1730-BR)                 71.3                                       71.3
Sec-d Project (Loan 1730-BR)       67.5 174.8 29.0                                 271.3
Nbrthst Project (Loan 2062-BR)              45.0                                   45.0
Prq-s Third Project                          -  150.0 237.0 113.0                  5C0.0
TUtAL                32.9 19.9 42.9 162.3 246.1 74.0 150.0 237.0 113.0           1,077.2
2. PKOECS DFCTI
First Loen (1207-8R)  -   18.0 22.0  27.0 30.0 29.0 63.6                           189.6
Secod loan (1730-BR)                1.0 26.0 79.0 117.0 72.0 34.0 13.6             342.6
Northwest Loan (2062-BR)                     4.0 21.0 20.0                         45.0
Proposed Third Loan                              3.0 40.0 116.0 161.0 123.0 53.0  4.0  C500.0
TOMAL            -  18.0 22.0  2B.0 56.0 112.0 204.6 132.0 150.0 174.6 123.0 53.0  4.0  1,077.2
C. Project Financing, Sublending Terms and Disbursement
4.07      The proposed project would be jointly funded by the Bank, BNDES,
the Federal Government and the sub-borrowers. The Federal Government's
contribution channeled through MT would be a grant to sub-borrowers which
would total approximately US$46 million equivalent. The Bank would finance
the foreign exchange component of the civil works cost, which is estimated at
32.5%, i.e., about 30.6% of the total project cost, with a loan of US$154.0
million, which includes US$2,275,862 for the capitalized front-end fee
assessed by the Bank. BNDES would finance about 35.6% of the total project
cost, i.e., about US$178.8 million equivalent. Sub-borrowers' contributions
would total approximately US$123.5 million equivalent, i.e., about 24.6% of
the total project cost (para 4.10).
4.08      The differentiation in subproject financing between low, middle and
high income states adopted under the First and Second Projects proved
satisfactory. Cost-sharing arrangements in force for the ongoing projects
would be maintained for the civil works; BNDES would now finance the
consulting and training services under the subloans with its own resources:
Group A     Group B      Group C
States      States       State
-(Percentage Cost Share----
Sub-Borrower                      20.0         30.0         40.0
MT Grant                           10.2         8.1          5.9
BNDES Subloans                     69.8        61.9         54.1
of which:
(i)  Civil works:
BNDES' own resources       37.0         29.7        21.6
IBRD                       32.8         32.2        32.5
(ii)  Consulting and training
services:
BNDES' own resources       69.8         61.9        54.1
IBRD                         -            -            -



- 20 -
4.09      The terms of the subloans, which include the Bank's and BNDES'
participations, would differentiate between the income groups of states and
depend on the subproject implementation schedules and the financial capacity
of the sub-borrowers. Subloans would be made in cruzeiros. Maturities would
range from eight to thirteen years, including one to four years of grace.
The Bank participations would bear the same variable interest rate as that of
the Bank, and their outstanding principal amount would be adjusted for the
value of the US dollar. Interest on BNDES' participations would range from
5% to 7% for the Group A states, from 6% to 8% for the Group B states and
from 8% to 10% for the Group C state, and their outstanding principal amount
would be adjusted periodically on the basis of the ORTN. The last repayment
date of any subloan would be not later than the last principal payment date
of the Bank's loan. The assumption by the beneficiary of the responsibility
to maintain the roads to be built would remain an important condition for
financial assistance, backed up by formal agreements between BNDES and the
sub-borrowers.
4.10      The resulting financing plan for the proposed project, based on
the tentative distribution of subloans included in BNDES' lending program
(Table 4.1) and excluding the capitalized front-end fee, is as follows:
Group A     Group B      Group C
States      States       State        Total         %
----------(Equivalent US$ million)-----
IBRD               92.1         47.8         11.8        151.7       30.6
BNDES             118.8         50.7          9.3        178.8       35.6
MT Grant           30.8         12.9          2.3         46.0         9.2
Sub-Borrower       60.3         47.6         15.6        123.5       24.6
Total             302.0        159.0         39.0       500.0       100.0
z                 60.4         31.8          7.8
The participation of MT was confirmed during negotiations.
4.11      BNDES' commitment and disbursement schedules under the project are
based on a typical subproject cycle derived from past experience. This
experience shows, in particular, that an average of 12 months is required
between sub-borrower's application and subloan signature and that an average
of three years is required for subproject implementation (Annex 1). The
typical subloan disbursement schedule is as follows:
time (% of three-year implementation period) 25%   50%   75%   100%
accumulated disbursement (%)                     7%   42%   75%   100%



- 21 -
The resulting commitment and disbursement schedules are summarized hereafter:
Calendar year:             total 1982 1983  1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989
Preliminary Commitments (BNDES' enquadramento)
- number of subprojects           30    6    15      9
- total costs (US$ m)            500   48   272   180
Subloans Contracted
- number of subloans              30    -    12    11   7
- IBRD/BNDES financing (US$ m) 330.5  -    99   157  74.5
- percent accumulated                   -    20    51 100
IBRD/BNDES Disbursement
- US$ m eq. per year             330.5  -      2.5  26  77   106   81  35    3
- percent accumulated              -           1     9  32    64   89  99  100
It was agreed during negotiations that BNDES would update the schedules of
commitments and disbursements, starting no later than March 31, 1983, and
inform the Bank accordingly in quarterly progress reports (para 4.30).
4.12      BNDES' present system of disbursing subloans in steps with the
progress of the works would be continued. Each tranche disbursed by BNDES
would include its own, the Bank's and MT's contributions, of which only the
Bank's and BNDES' contributions are to be repaid by sub-borrowers. The Bank
would reimburse BNDES, for payments made to sub-borrowers for civil works
(excluding MT's contribution and payments for consultant services), against
Statements of Expenditures, in accordance with the following percentages:
Group A States  -  47% of amounts disbursed to sub-borrowers
(excluding MT's contribution and payments for
consultant services)
Group B States  -  52% of amounts disbursed to sub-borrowers
(excluding MT's contribution and payments for
consultant services)
Group C State   -  60% of amounts disbursed to sub-borrowers
(excluding MT's contribution and payments for
consultant services)
The Statements of Expenditures would be certified by BNDES, and would provide
a breakdown of reimbursable expenditures by subloan. Documentation support-
ing the Statements of Expenditures would be retained by BNDES, and would be
made available for review by the Bank during the course of supervision
missions.
4.13      In order to reduce the interval between disbursement by BNDES and
reimbursement by the Bank, a Special Account would be established and
maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank. The amount deposited in the
Special Account could be increased as required for project execution, but
would not exceed US$14 million, which is the estimated Bank's share of
project expenditures for a period of up to three months. Withdrawals in
cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made on the basis of the
Statements of Expenditures and related withdrawal application signed and
forwarded by BNDES to the Central Bank. Conversion from US dollars into
cruzeiros would be made in accordance with the exchange rate that prevailed



- 22 -
on the date when the expenditures were made. The Central Bank would forward
the Statements of Expenditures and the related withdrawal application to the
Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account. The Central Bank would
forward monthly statements of account to the Bank. The Special Account would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
4.14      The schedule of estimated disbursements of Bank loan proceeds,
including the initial deposit in the Special Account, was prepared accord-
ingly. It is shown in Table 4.2 and summarized hereafter:
Fiscal Year                         1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988  1989  Total
Disbursed in FY (US$ million):
Front-end fee (rounded)         2.3                                      2.3
Project expenditures           14.0  2.8 22.3 46.7 46.4 16.2   3.3  151.7
% cumulative at end of FY 1/         9.2 11.1 25.8 56.6 87.1 97.8 100.0
Typical disbursement profile
for highway projects in Latin
America (%) cumulative              10   28   51   86  100   100  100
1/   Excluding front-end fee.
Disbursements under the proposed project would start slowly because of the
time required to prepare subprojects. Taking account of the one-year time
lag, the disbursement schedule is broadly in line with a typical disbursement
profile for Bank-financed highway projects in Latin America.
D. Subproject Eligibility, Identification, Preparation and Evaluation
4.15      The purposes of the National Feeder Roads Program are defined in
the Manual as: (a) channeling the production of agricultural areas (or
special program areas) to the trunk road and highway system, to marketing and
assembly centers, to consumption centers or to processing, commercialization
or export centers; and (b) providing a road access to areas and population
centers where none existed previously.  The conditions for eligibility for
financing feeder roads under the Program are also defined in the Manual.
These conditions, which are satisfactory, would not be changed; in particu-
lar, the required minimum economic rate of return would be 12%.
4.16      Identification of subprojects would remain sub-borrowers' responsi-
bility. Nevertheless, BNDES would increase its involvement in the planning
and identification phase and specifically:
(a)  take the initiative to organize identification meetings with the
prospective sub-borrower in which the relevant DER and state plan-
ning and agriculture and/or rural development agencies would
also participate;
(b)  prepare state economic and financial assessments through the
Priorities Department of its Planning Directorate, the Agricultural
Development Department of its Projects II Directorate, and its
Statistical Office;



- 23 -
(c) review, with MT, state priorities and programs for rural develop-
ment and feeder roads, discuss the objectives and tentative scope
of the proposed subproject, determine the amount of the subloan,
and review sub-borrowers' proposed guarantees; and
(d) recommend for subproject preparation in line with the Manual
procedures and guidelines and agree on a schedule for subproject
application (Carta Consulta), normally no later than 60 days.
The sub-borrower would forward to BNDES the Carta Consulta, which would
include:
(a) the list of the proposed investments to be included in the sub-
project, with related preliminary cost estimates to total no more
than the subloan amount, and an additional list of investments with
a cost of about 50% of the subloan amount, to constitute a reserve
to provide flexibility in further preparation of the subproject;
(b) a plan of action to carry out the feasibility study, and confirma-
tion of the appointment of a subproject coordinator and a super-
vising engineer; and
(c) an annex to set up the subproject within state priorities for rural
development and feeder roads, and to detail the status of ongoing
feeder roads projects and maintenance data (para 4.25).
The preceding actions, to be taken by BNDES, would be described in the OM,
and procedures for the Carta Consulta would be incorporated in the AM.
4.17      BNDES' commitment (Enquadramento), to be issued normally within 30
days of receipt of the Carta Consulta after its review by BNDES/DNER, would
now be conditional upon the presentation of the feasibility study within an
agreed schedule, normally no later than 120 days after BNDES' commitment.
BNDES would not maintain its commitment beyond the deadline and would revise
its lending program accordingly. The new conditions of commitment would be
laid out in the AM, and BNDES' commitment procedures would be described in
the OM.
4.18      Responsibility for the preparation and presentation of the feasi-
bility study would, as in the past, rest with the sub-borrower, who would
follow the orientation and specifications of the Manual. The feasibility
study would cover all investments proposed in the Carta Consulta, including
the additional investments which are intended to constitute the reserve.  In
addition to its initial feasibility orientation mission, BNDES would now
follow up the implementation of the feasibility study. This followup
procedure would be included in the OM, and requirements for the assessment of
the reserve would be detailed in the AM.
4.19      The economic evaluation of the subprojects would follow either one
of the two methodologies detailed in the Manual, i.e., the vehicle operating
cost savings (VOCS) methodology when traffic is already substantial (above
200 vehicles per day), and the value-added methodology for relatively
undeveloped areas and especially for program areas in which the socio-
economic development as a whole, together with the specific road investment,



- 24 -
needs to be shown feasible. A combination of the VOCS method and the value-
added method would also be accepted to assess the economic feasibility of
intermediate cases (in particular Class C roads with daily traffic ranging
between 100 and 200 vehicles). The economic evaluation of roads included in
program areas would be simplified. Significant crops only, i.e., the major
crops which, together, constitute the bulk of farmers' income, would be
considered in the analysis.  It would be recommended that the economic evalu-
ation of low standard roads (Class D, E and F) included in homogeneous
production areas (where land use and yields are similar) be made for the
entire set of links instead of link by link (Annex 2). However, the estim-
ates of the costs of works at the feasibility stage, which constitute the
basis for determining subloan amounts, would be made link by link. BNDES'
appraisal of subprojects would include the computation of switching values
for cost estimates to check the feasibility of individual links on the basis
of cost estimates at the time of appraisal, final engineering designs and
bids.  In the event of increases of the estimated costs at final engineering
design or bid stages making a proposed investment unfeasible, this investment
would be replaced by a feasible one from the reserve. Updated requirements
and guidelines for feasibility studies would be included in the AM, and the
update of BNDES' appraisal procedures would be part of the OM.
4.20      Most of the subprojects would, as under the Second Project, consist
of the improvement of existing roads and, therefore, would not have adverse
effects on the social and physical environment.  The subprojects in the
states of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, which would include the construction
of new roads, would be part of the Northwest Region Development Program
(POLONOROESTE), whose aim is to promote the orderly settlement of the region,
and which provides, through the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) and the
Superintendency for the Development of Amazonia (SUDAM), specific measures
for the protection of the rights and health of the indigenous population and
of the ecological and physical environment. BNDES, which is currently devel-
oping an in-house environmental capacity in cooperation with the Bank, would
assign, on a part-time basis for the Program, an environmental officer to
participate in the appraisal of related subprojects and to ensure, through
appropriate subloan conditions and supervision missions, subproject com-
pliance with the environmental measures. This new responsibility would be
included in the OM.
4.21       It was agreed during negotiations that subproject implementation
schedules would be limited to a maximum of three years after subloan approval
by BNDES and that a provision of not less than 20% of the subproject
estimated cost would be included in the subloan amount to cover price
contingencies. The sub-borrower and BNDES would undertake a review of the
financial situation of the subproject when road links corresponding to
two-thirds of the subloan amount are contracted. The provision would be
allocated to cover possible overruns. Should there be a surplus, the
sub-borrower would be allowed to add to the subproject investments selected
from the reserve.  Increases in costs due to quantity overruns would, in any
case, be borne by sub-borrowers. Related procedures would be detailed in the
OM.



- 25 -
E. Subproject Engineering, Technology Development and Maintenance
4.22      The engineering standards for Class A to E roads, defined in the
Manual, would remain unchanged. However, because of the evolution of the
Program toward low-cost rural roads, a new Class F road would be added to the
set, which would have, as for Class E roads, a roadway width of 6.0 meters
(including lateral drainage ditches) but no specified geometric constrafnts
(Table 4.3).
4.23      Existing arrangements allow financing through subloan proceeds of
final engineering designs carried out by consultants. This would now be
extended, at BNDES' discretion, to final engineering carried out directly by
sub-borrowers up to a maximum of 5% of the cost of the related works, in
order to promote simplified design methods. It is expected that such
engineering designs, under the guidance of BNDES/DNER, would upgrade the
technical capabilities of the sub-borrowers and, therefore, their ability to
prepare appropriate terms of reference for - and to supervise - engineering
designs of low standard roads by consultants. This new facility would be
included in the AM, and the related technical assistance would be detailed in
the OM.
4.24      The construction technology development item of the proposed
project would include experiments to promote the extensive use of local
materials for improved surfacing and drainage of low standard rural roads,
and more labor-intensive techniques. For the purpose of these experiments,
specific technical expertise by such research institutions as the Tech-
nological Research Institute of Sao Paulo (IPT) or consulting firms would be
financed under the subloans. BNDES/DNER would (a) make efforts to include
such experiments, whenever possible, in at least 20% of subprojects; and (b)
organize a technical seminar before the end of 1984, with the participation
of the sub-borrowers, to exchange technical experiences. The new facility
offered for financing specific technical experiments would be included in the
AM, and BNDES' related plan of action would be detailed in the OM.
4.25      The proposed project would include a maintenance component consist-
ing of:
(a) assessments by BNDES/DNER of the sub-borrowers' maintenance
capabilities, before committing project funds. For that purpose,
sub-borrowers would furnish, with their application (Carta
Consulta), the following information: (i) network and traffic
data; (ii) past performance indicators (equipment, manpower, work
program and maintenance expenditures over last three years); and
(iii) maintenance program for next four years, including budget
forecasts. Information format would be specified in the AM.
Criteria to be followed in these assessments would be detailed in
the OM and incorporated in BNDES' lending criteria. Investments in
areas where prospects for maintenance are not adequate would not be
financed under the project, and/or BNDES/DNER may, as necessary,
seek commitment from the sub-borrowers to specific measures to
improve its maintenance capability. These measures would normally
be recorded and documented in a letter of intent submitted by the
sub-borrower before BNDES' decision to finance the subproject.



- 26 -
(b) studies and training of staff to be financed under subloan
proceeds up to a maximum of 5% of the subloan amount, for address-
ing specific institutional, management, technical, staffing, train-
ing and financial shortcomings in the sub-borrower's maintenance
capability and for preparing and implementing maintenance upgrading
programs. Terms of reference for such studies and training, to be
carried out by qualified consultants or specialized institutions,
would be prepared by the sub-borrowers, reviewed by BNDES/DNER and
presented to the Bank for review. Their implementation would be
supervised by BNDES/DNER. This new facility for studies and
training for maintenance would be described in the AM, and the
related responsibilities of BNDES and DNER would be spelled out in
the SA.
These arrangements for maintenance assessments, studies and training were
confirmed during negotiations.
F. Subproject Execution, Procurement, Supervision and Monitoring
4.26      The sub-borrowers would be responsible for the execution of the
subprojects. Procurement of civil works and services would follow State
Governments' competitive bidding procedures (Decree-Law No. 200 of
February 25, 1967 and Decree No. 73140 of November 9, 1973) with local adver-
tising only, which are acceptable and have been used under the two ongoing
projects. Although these procedures allow foreign contractors to bid, it is
expected that all civil works would be contracted to local firms, most of
them of regional stature. Local advertising is appropriate for these works
since the roads would be of relatively low cost (contracts in the First and
Second Projects average about US$750,000), would be scattered over the whole
country, and foreign firms, not already established in Brazil, as well as
large national firms, would not be interested.  It would not be practicable
to make packages of works sufficiently large to attract foreign bidders since
this would result in uneconomic operations because of the scattered nature of
the works.
4.27      Since the sub-borrowers' force account capabilities are generally
weak and should be applied primarily to maintenance activities, the financing
of works by force account would be limited to works estimated at less than
ORTN 22,000 (US$250,000 equivalent), and then only when bidding has proved
unsuccessful. The cumulative amount of works carried out by force account
would not be higher than ORTN 88,000 (US$1 million equivalent) under each
subproject. These procedures and limits to finance works by force account,
as well as the procedures of payment and control of execution, were confirmed
during negotiations and would be included in the AM.
4.28      Bid prices and total costs of the works would be closely monitored
by DNER and BNDES. DNER would review ex-ante bids over ORTN 25,000
(US$300,000 equivalent), ex-post bids less than this amount. It was agreed
that DNER would not submit to the Executive Council of DNER the analysis of
the bids in order to simplify the administrative procedures.  This updated
procedure would be spelled out in the SA.



- 27 -
4.29       Supervision of subprojects would rest with the sub-borrowers, and,
to this effect, their capacity to carry out this task would be assessed at an
early stage. If, in the opinion of BNDES (upon DNER's advice), the sub-
borrower has in-house capacity to supervise the works, this arrangement would
be permitted, but not paid for under the project. If, on the other hand, the
sub-borrower hires a consultant for this task, the cost of this service would
be eligible for financing under the project. Any force account works would
be supervised by consultants.
4.30      BNDES, with the assistance of DNER, would also, by means of regular
supervision visits, ensure that the terms and conditions of the subloans,
particularly the technical standards of construction, are adhered to. Hence,
BNDES would, with the help of DNER through its resident engineers, closely
monitor the progress of subprojects and inform the Bank accordingly in
summary reports every quarter; this arrangement was agreed during negotia-
tions.
G. Project Administration
4.31      BNDES' Feeder Roads Working Group, in the Agricultural Development
Department of Projects II Directorate, would be responsible for the adminis-
tration of the proposed project. Staffing of this Group is adequate to carry
out all tasks necessary to administer the Program. However, as the Program
is expanding, BNDES would further strengthen its management of the Program.
It was agreed that BNDES would (a) detail the actions to be taken to imple-
ment the project and set up clearly defined internal procedures and work
organization; and (b) set up a comprehensive Program Management Information
System (PMIS).
4.32      For that purpose, BNDES would prepare an Operational Manual (OM) to
detail tasks, internal procedures and work organization of BNDES' Feeder
Roads Working Group. The OM would cover: (a) lending program monitoring and
(b) subproject identification, preparation and implementation, consistently
with the agreed project implementation mechanisms.
4.33      The PMIS is aimed at providing, on a permanent basis, the necessary
indicators of: (a) the administrative status; (b) the physical progress; and
(c) the financial situation at four different levels: individual investment;
subproject; project; and the Program. The PMIS would be developed in three
phases: (a) definition of the necessary summary statements, data collection
and processing procedures; (b) development of the necessary software, instal-
lation of the terminal equipment within BNDES' Feeder Roads Working Group and
setting up of the data collection system; and (c) building up of the data
base. A draft of the design of the PMIS would be presented to the Bank for
discussion before March 31, 1983. The system would be established before
June 30, 1983 and become operational before September 30, 1983. This timing
was confirmed during negotiations.
4.34      DNER would continue to provide assistance to BNDES, as described in
paragraph 2.07, in the administration of the proposed project. It was agreed
that MT would be responsible for this technical assistance and that DNER
would be the executing agency and would maintain, for that purpose and under
its own resources, at least the same capabilities within its Feeder Roads
Working Group as under the Second Project. It was also agreed that MT would



- 28 -
participate, together with BNDES and DNER, within the Joint Steering
Committee in the orientation of the Program and in the coordination of the
work programs of both feeder roads working groups. The respective responsi-
bilities of MT and DNER would be stated in the SA. The composition of the
Joint Steering Committee and the organization and staffing of DNER's
strengthened Feeder Roads Working Group were reviewed by the Bank during
negotiations.
H. Policy Development
4.35      MT's officials are aware of the need, as the involvement of the
Federal Government in feeder roads construction is expanding, for harmonizing
the various federal feeder roads programs. MT agreed to develop, within its
Transport Coordination Secretariat (SCT), an information system to follow up
the federal feeder roads programs and to assess their respective socio-
economic impact; MT also agreed to prepare, and discuss with the Bank by the
end of 1983, a statement of the policy of the Federal Government vis-a-vis
feeder roads investments and a plan of action for harmonizing the federal
programs and rationalizing the related funding systems. MT would, as a first
step, design the feeder roads information system and prepare a program for
its development and terms of reference for the comparative assessment of the
programs. A second step would be the setting up of the information system
and the implementation of the study.  As a third step, MT would prepare the
statement of policy and the plan of action, including a schedule for its
implementation.
4.36      The need for improving the maintenance of the feeder roads is also
better perceived at federal level, now that the Federal Government is in-
creasing its investment effort. The policy of the Federal Government is to
support the development of statewide maintenance programs focusing on the
needs of the municipalities. The Federal Government would aim at establish-
ing consistent criteria for classification of secondary and feeder roads,
supporting systematic inventories, disseminating appropriate maintenance
techniques, promoting institution-building and training, and establishing
adequate funding mechanisms. It was agreed that MT would prepare, with the
assistance of DNER, and possibly GEIPOT and other institutions, in consulta-
tion with the Bank, a statement of policy and a plan of action to implement
this policy. This has been provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding
(para 4.03). The maintenance component of the project, including the
assessments by BNDES/DNER of the sub-borrowers' maintenance capabilities and
the studies financed under subloans (para 4.25), would contribute to the
identification of the financial, technical, organizational and manpower
shortcomings and serve as a basis for the preparation and development of this
road maintenance policy.
4.37      The timing of these two policy formulation efforts agreed with MT
is determined by the program of work involved and by possible changes in
state administrations in the first quarter of 1983. MT would present to the
Bank before December 31, 1983, for review and comment, the statement of
policy for feeder roads investments and the related plan of action for
harmonizing the federal programs. MT would also furnish to the Bank before
December 31, 1983, for review and comment, the statement of policy for road
maintenance and the related plan of action to support the development of
maintenance programs; this plan of action would be put into effect by



- 29 -
March 31, 1984.  Consultations with the Bank would take place periodically to
discuss progress made in the preparation of these policies and related plans
of action.
I.  Bank Review of Subprojects, Project Supervision and Auditing
4.38      The Bank would review BNDES' appraisal of subprojects, and Bank
approval of BNDES' decision would remain a condition for Bank participation
in the subproject. The Bank would approve ex-ante BNDES' decision for sub-
projects the total costs of which exceed: (a) ORTN 1.0 million (about US$11.2
million equivalent, of which about US$3.64 million would be loan proceeds)
for state DERs and Municipal Road Consortia; and (b) ORTN 150,000 (about
US$1.68 million equivalent, of which about US$0.65 million would be loan pro-
ceeds) for municipalities. The Bank would have 60 days from receipt of
BNDES' appraisal and decision to express its views on the proposed subproj-
ect, after which time approval would be BNDES' responsibility. The above
free limits are updates of those in effect under the Second Project 1/; they
were confirmed during negotiations. The experience gained under the ongoing
projects shows that exempting relatively small subprojects from Bank ex-ante
approval would simplify the administration of the loan. Under the first two
projects, 28% of the total number of subprojects, representing 8% of the
total projects costs and an average cost per subproject of US$4 million, have
been exempted from Bank ex-ante approval.
4.39      The Bank would also take the following measures to ensure proper
execution of the project:
(a) review and approve ex-post a sample of about 10% of the final
engineering and procurement documents for subprojects;
(b) review a sample of about 10% of contract awards on an ex-post
basis, with the right to exclude from financing such contracts not
awarded following agreed procedures (para 4.26);
(c) review BNDES' quarterly progress reports that would cover the
updated schedules of commitments and disbursements (para 4.11),
progress of subprojects (para 4.30), and other pertinent informa-
tion;
(d) review ex-ante the terms of reference for the studies and training
for maintenance (para 4.25);
(e) provide supervision, under the responsibility of the Resident
Highway Engineer, which would analyze the efficiency of the insti-
tutions in operational procedures; follow progress with the objec-
tives mentioned in paragraph 4.01, in particular through (i) the
status and evolution of the states' pipelines of feeder roads
investments, (ii) sub-borrowers' performance at the various steps
of subprojects preparation and implementation, and (iii) BNDES'
1/   ORTN 650,000 for state DERs and Municipal Road Consortia, and
ORTN 100,000 for municipalities.



- 30 -
efficiency in meeting its lending objectives and DNER's effective
contribution; and visit a sample of subproject sites to review
progress and quality of the works and, on a continuing basis,
reassess the Program to see whether it would need improvement; and
(f)  discuss with MT the policy development documents and review
progress made through periodic consultations with the Bank
(para 4.37).
In view of the volume of work related to secondary and rural roads in Brazil
under the National Feeder Roads Program, under the Northwest Region
Development Program and under 15 ongoing agricultural development projects,
the Bank stationed a Highway Engineer in the field in October 1981 for an
initial period of three years.  BNDES is providing office and secretarial
support. The supervision of the three feeder roads projects would take up to
50% of the time of the Resident Engineer.
4.40      Each sub-borrower would maintain separate accounts of its expendi-
tures under the proposed project.  Statements of subproject accounts, as
defined in the Manual, would be presented to BNDES at six-month intervals
after subloan signature.  Sub-borrowers' financial statements for each fiscal
year, including a statement of sources and applications of funds and a state-
ment of budgetary execution, would be audited: (a) for DERs, by the Tribunal
de Contas in each state according to standard Government practice, which is
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) for municipal road consortia, by indepen-
dent auditors satisfactory to BNDES. Audited reports would be presented
annually to BNDES not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, as
specified in the Manual. BNDES would maintain separate records for the
proposed project.  It was agreed during negotiations that BNDES would present
to the Bank, not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year:
(a) its financial statements, audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank; (b) a report on the results of an audit of the Statements of Expen-
ditures carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; this
audit report would convey the auditors' opinion (and comments as necessary)
on the methodology employed in the compilation of the Statements of Expendi-
tures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for
financing in terms of the project's legal documents and the standard of
record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing; and (c) a
report summarizing its review of the audited financial statements of the
sub-borrowers.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
5.01      A rate of return has not been calculated for the proposed project
because most of the subprojects to be included in the Program have not yet
been identified. However, experience with the first and second projects
shows that rates of return would most likely range between 12% and 30%, with
some as high as 40% (Table 3.3).  Investments to be financed under the
proposed project would be required to yield a minimum economic rate of return
of 12%.



- 31 -
5.02      The proposed project would have a positive impact on agricultural
development. Improved access from rural areas and communities to the rest of
the country would contribute to agricultural development by: (a) reducing
operating costs and achieving economies of scale resulting from the use of
heavier vehicles, with the cost savings accruing principally to producers and
consumers, given the competitive nature of the road transport industry; (b)
reducing risk and uncertainty to farmers by providing more reliable all-
weather access to markets, storage and processing facilities, and by allowing
farmers to shift production to some perishable products when demand and
supply conditions are appropriate; and (c) facilitating access to essential
farm inputs such as fertilizers, seeds and insecticides and to Government
credit and extension programs for the agricultural sector. The proposed
roads would also produce significant benefits from road user savings accruing
to existing traffic and would improve access for isolated communities to
social, health and education facilities.
5.03      The frontier areas would also benefit from the provision of feeder
roads which would allow more integrated and economic development to take
place.  The proposed project would provide for the construction of feeder
connections from the new settlement areas to the main trunk network, permit-
ting better utilization of the new lands. The proposed project would, in
particular, include two subprojects in the States of Rondonia and Mato Grosso
for a total cost of about US$100 million equivalent as part of the Northwest
Region Development Program.
5.04      In addition, the proposed project would have significant
institution-building aspects arising from further strengthening the system of
institutions involved in the National Feeder Roads Program. These mechanisms
would be aimed at ensuring the continuity of the efforts of the states to
build up a pipeline of feeder roads investments and at promoting a more
comprehensive multisectoral approach to feeder roads planning.
5.05      The proposed project would also support significant policy develop-
ment efforts vis-a-vis the involvement of the Federal Government in feeder
roads investments and maintenance. These efforts would aim at the rationali-
zation of federal programs, including related funding systems and justifica-
tion requirements, and at the strengthening of the maintenance capability of
states and municipalities.
B. Project Risks
5.06      The risks involved in the proposed project are possible implemen-
tation delays which may arise from the multiplicity of participating agencies
and from the reliance, at various stages of project development, on sub-
borrower initiatives. Delays experienced under the First Project and diffi-
culties encountered under the Second Project have been mainly due to:
(a) insufficient planning and coordination at state level with other sectors
and premature commitment of funds; (b) over-rigid economic justification
requirements for the increasing proportion of low standard rural roads; and
(c) lack of flexibility in subproject implementation mechanisms. These
delays and difficulties are not expected to be repeated to the same extent
because:  (a) a new emphasis would be put on the identification of subproj-
ects within a multisectoral framework, and commitments of funds would now be



- 32 -
conditional upon the respect of agreed deadlines for subproject identifica-
tion and preparation-evaluation; (b) economic justification requirements and
evaluation methodologies would be adjusted; and (c) subproject implementa-
tion schedules would be limited to a maximum of three years, and the reserve
of studied investments would allow replacement of investments no longer
justified at final design or bidding stage. However, as the Program unfolds,
further improvements and corrective measures would undoubtedly be found
necessary, and sub-borrowers' initiatives would have to be followed closely.
The timely implementation of the project would require active supervision of
subprojects by BNDES and Bank staff.  In order to monitor the project
closely, BNDES would further strengthen its management of the Program.
Adequate Bank followup would be achieved through the Bank's Resident Engineer
in Rio and regular supervision missions. This closely coordinated supervi-
sion effort would provide greater assurances in reducing the incidence and
gravity of implementation problems.
5.07      Because of possible changes in priorities which may arise from
changes in state administrations in March 1983, potential sub-borrowers may
delay their applications, and not all of the stock of studied subprojects may
be committed as scheduled. Alternative lending scenarios have been studied
in view of the possible changes; first subloan contracts could be postponed
until mid-1983, but it would still be necessary to commit at least 30% of the
loan amount by the end of 1983 and to start disbursing under the proposed
loan in late 1983 in order to ensure the continuity of about ten state
programs.  In all cases, the schedule of disbursements would not be changed
significantly.
5.08      The Manual sets very specific requirements concerning the economic
viability of subprojects. These requirements have been adhered to
rigorously by BNDES/DNER and have led to the selection of well justified
investments under the First and Second Projects. The National Feeder Roads
Program, although significant, is of relatively small size compared to the
current demand for feeder road improvements, and sub-borrowers have to make
substantial direct contributions to the costs of the subprojects; thus, the
risk of implementing economically unjustified subprojects under the Program
is minimal.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  presentation to the Bank by March 31, 1983, for review and
comment, of the revised draft of BNDES' Operational Manual (OM),
and presentation to the Bank, by June 30, 1983, of the OM
(para 4.03(b));
(b)  amount to be spent under the proposed project in any one state not
to exceed US$50 million equivalent nor to exceed US$40 million
equivalent in Sao Paulo State (para 4.05);
(c)  MT to make available an amount of US$46.0 million equivalent as a
grant contribution to the proposed project (para 4.10);



- 33 -
(d) presentation to the Bank of BNDES' quarterly progress reports to
include updated schedules of commitments and disbursements, and
progress of subprojects (paras 4.11-4.30);
(e) subproject implementation schedules to be limited to a maximum of
three years and provision of not less than 20% of the subproject
estimated cost to be included in subloan amount to cover price
contingencies (para 4.21);
(f) procedures for maintenance assessments and for financing studies
and training for maintenance under subloan proceeds up to a maximum
of 5% of subloan amounts (para 4.25);
(g) procedures and limits to finance works by force account
(para 4.27);
(h) presentation to the Bank, prior to March 31, 1983, for discussion,
of the draft of the design of BNDES' Management Information System
for the National Feeder Roads Program, to be set up by June 30,
1983, and to become operational by September 30, 1983 (para 4.33);
(i) composition of the Joint Steering Committee and organization and
staffing of DNER's strengthened Feeder Roads Working Group
(para 4.34);
(j) presentation to the Bank, prior to December 31, 1983, for review
and comment, of statement of policy for feeder roads investments
and related plan of action for harmonizing the federal programs
(para 4.37);
(k) presentation to the Bank, prior to December 31, 1983, for review
and comment, of statement of policy for road maintenance and
related plan of action to support the development of maintenance
programs, to be put into effect by March 31, 1984 (para 4.37); and
(1) free limits for approval by BNDES of applications under the
proposed project (para 4.38).
6.02      Special conditions for loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  issuance by BNDES and DNER of an agreed Addendum to the Manual
(para 4.03(a)); and
(b) execution of the Subsidiary Agreement stating the respective
responsibilities of BNDES, MT, and DNER in the implementation of
the proposed project (para 4.03(c)).
6.04      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank Loan of US$154.0 million. The term would be thirteen
years, including a four-year grace period.
November 29, 1982



- 34 -
TABLE 1.1
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Road Network, 1979
(kilometers)
Region      State                   Federal     State       Municipal       Total
NORTH       Acre                        866        176           679         1,721
Amapa                      748      1,256            661        2,665
Amazonas                 2,490        501         1,200         4,191
Para                     4,014      4,863        11,078        19,955
Rondonia                 1,436        746          3,308        5,490
Roraima                  1,120      1,094            -          2,214
10,674     8,636         16,926        36,236
NORTHEAST   Alagoas                     830     1,947          9,475        12,252
Bahia                    6,575      7,103        97,546       111,224
Ceara                    2,507      5,107        35,045        42,659
Maranhao                 3,453      3,146        44,046        50,645
Paraiba                  1,633      3,436        27,743        32,812
Pernambuco               2,727      3,905        32,010        38,642
Piaui                    2,847      2,618        42,217        47,682
Rio Grande do Norte      1,437      3,202        21,271        25,910
Sergipe                    367     1,813          6,600         8,780
22,376    32,277        315,953       370,606
SOUTHEAST   Espiritu Santo             989      3,237         23,761       27,987
Minas Gerais             9,840      9,593       180,361       199,794
Rio de Janeiro           2,140      3,761        18,031        23,932
Sao Paulo                5,374    10,996        152,439       168,809
18,343    27,587        374,592       420,522
SOUTH       Parana                   4,168      6,354        128,522      139,044
Rio Grande do Sul        4,864      6,003       129,307       140,174
Sta. Catarina            2,340     3,368         79,334        85,042
11,372    15,725        337,163       364,260
CENTERWEST Distrito Federal            285        689            -             974
Goias                    5,063    16,862         78,199       100,124
Mato Grosso              6,438      9,042        24,652        40,132
Mato Grosso do Sul       1,197      7,628        33,633        42,458
12,983    34,221        136,484       183,688
BRAZIL                               84,931   118,446      I,I8I,I18    1,384;495
Source: GEIPOT, Anuario Estatistico dos Transportes, 1980
March 1982



- 35 -                           TABLE 1.2
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
State and Municipal Road Network, 1979
Pavement Status
(kilometers)
State Roads         Municipal Roads            Total
Region       State                  Paved   Unpaved        Paved   Unpaved        Paved   Unpaved
NORTH       Acre                       38      138           6         673          44        811
Amapa                     20    1,236          43         618          63      1,854
Amazonas                400       101         127       1,073         527      1,174
Para                  1,432    3,431          161      10,917       1,593    14,348
Rondonia                 -        746           8       3,300           8     4,046
Roraima                  -      1,094          -          -            -       1,094
Total                 1,890    6,746          345      16,581       2,235    23,327
NORTHEAST      Alagoas                  778    1,169          30       9,445         808    10,614
Bahia                 1,874    5,229          253      97,293       2,127   102,522
Ceara                 2,225    2,882          158      34,887       2,383    37,769
Maranhao                447    2,699           70      43,976         517    46,675
Paraiba                 404    3,032            5      27,738         409    30,770
Pernambuco              913    2,992           -       32,010         913    35,002
Piaui                   992    1,626           49      42,168       1,041    43,794
Rio Grande do Norte    518    2,684           147      21,124         665    23,808
Sergipe                 341    1,472           -        6,600         341      8,072
Total                 8,492   23,785          712    315,241        9,204   339,026
SOUTHEAST    Espiritu Santo           689    2,548           71      23,690         760    26,238
Minas Gerais          2,854    6,739          795    179,566        3,649   186,305
Rio de Janeiro        1,397    2,364          887      17,144       2,284    19,508
Sao Paulo             8,910    2,086          760    151,679        9,670   153,765
Total                13,850   13,737        2,513    379,079       16,363   385,816
SOUTH      Parana                 3,935    2,419          102    128,420       4,037   130,839
Rio Grande do Sul    1,422    4,581           131    129,176        1,553   133,757
Sta Catarina            606    2,762          635      78,699       1,241    81,461
Total                 5,963    9,762          868    336,295        6,831   346,057
CENTERWEST   Distrito Federal         226       463         -         -             226        463
Goias                   960   15,902           37      78,162         997    94,064
Mato Grosso             192    8,850          -        24,652         192    33,502
Mato Grosso do Sul      149    7,479            1      33,632         150    41,111
Total                 1,527   32,694           38    136,446        1,565   169,140
BRAZIL                           31,722   86,724        4,476  1,176,642       36,198 1,263,366
Source: GEIPOT, Anuario Estatistico dos Transportes, 1980
April 1982



- 36 -                          TABLE 1.3
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
State and Municipal Road Densities, 1979
Road Densities
(km per 1000 km2)  (km per 1000 inhab.)
Region                          Population   Area         Total   Paved       Total   Paved
(1000 inhar.)(1000 km2)
NORTH      Acre                   284.1       153          5.59    0.29         3.01    0.15
Amapa                 183.1       140         13.69    0.45       10.47    0.34
Amazonas             1249.8      1567          1.09    0.34         1.36    0.42
Para                 2964.5      1248         12.77    1.28        5.38    0.54
Rondonia              168.8       243         16.68    0.03       24.00    0.05
Roraima                56.9       230          4.76      -        19.23      -
Total                4907.2      3581          7.14    0.62        5.21    0.46
% of Brazil                         3.9      42.0
NORTHEAST  Alagoas               1958.4        28        407.93   28.86         5.83    0.41
Bahia                9263.7       561        186.54    3.79       11.30    0.33
Ceara                5611.6       148        271.30   16.10         7.16    0.42
Maranhao             3557.8       329        143.44    1.57       13.26    0.15
Paraiba              2787.9        56        556.77    7.30       11.18    0.15
Pernambuco           6354.2        98        366.48    9.32        5.65    0.14
Piaui                2206.1       254        176.52    4.10       20.32    0.47
Rio Grande do Norte 2035.3         53        461.75   12.55       12.02    0.33
Sergipe              1059.1        22        382.41   15.50         7.94    0.32
Total               34834.1      1548        224.97    5.95       10.00    0.26
% of Brazil                       27.9       18.2
SOUTHEAST  Espiritu Santo        2117.3        46        586.91   16.52       12.75    0.36
Minas Gerais        12967.7       587        323.60    6.22        14.65    0.28
Rio de Janeiro      11867.4        44        495.27   51.91        1.83    0.19
Sao Paulo           23862.8       248        659.01   39.00        6.85    0.41
Total               50815.2       925        434.79   17.59         7.91    0.32
% of Brazil                       40.7       10.9
SOUTH      Parana               10719.0       200        674.38   20.19       12.58    0.38
Rio Grande do Sul   8099.7        282        479.82    5.51       16.71    0.19
Sta. Catarina        3851.9        96        861.48    4.40       21.47    0.32
Total               22670.6       578        610.53   11.82       15.57    0.30
% of Brazil                       18.2        6.8
CENTERWEST Distrito Federal    1801.5           6        114.83   37.67        0.38    0.13
Goias                4324.0       642        148.07    1.55       21.98    0.23
Mato Grosso          2704.5       881         38.25    0.22       12.46      -
Mato Grosso do Sul    -           351        117.55    0.43          -       -
Total               11534.5      1880         90.80    0.83       14.80    0.14
% of Brazil                        9.2       22.1
BRAZIL                        124,761.6      8512        152.67    4.25        10.42    0.29
Sources: Anuario Estatistico DNER 1980 and Anuario Estatistico dos Transportes GEIPOT, 1980
April 1982



- 37 -                          TABLE 1.4
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Distribution of State and Municipal Roads, 1979
(Length as a percentage of total Brazil)
a. by region
State and Municipal Roads
Area    Population          Total       Paved
North                          42           4                2           6
Northeast                      18          28               27          25
Southeast                      11          41               31          45
South                           7          18               27          20
Centerwest                     22           9               13           4
Total                    100        100               100         100
b. by group of state income
Low income states 1/           83          43               44          38
Middle income states 2/        14          38               43          35
High income states 3F-          3          19               13          27
Total                    100        100               100         100
1/ Low Income States             2/  Middle Income States    31  High Income States
(Group A)                          (Group B)                     (Group C)
Acre (AC)                        Minas Gerais (MG)               Sao Paulo (SP)
Alagoas (AL)                     Parana (PR)
Amazonas (AM)                    Rio Grande do Sul (RS)
Bahia (BA)                       Rio de Janeiro (RJ)
Ceara (CE)                       Santa Catarina (SC)
Espirito Santo (ES)              The Federal District (DF)
Goias (GO)
Maranhao (MA)
Mato Grosso (MT)
Mato Grosso do Sul (MS)
Para (PA)
Paraiba (PB)
Pernambuco (PE)
Piaui (PI)
Rio Grande do Norte (RN)
Rondonia (RO)
Sergipe (SE)
Amapa (Territory)
Roraima (Territory)
Source: Appraisal mission
November 19R2



- 38 -                            TABLE 1.5
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Feeder Roads Components of Special Programs
Fiscal Year April 1, 1981 - March 31, 1982 Budget
(Current US$ 000)
Federal                   Transport   Feeder
Special     Government   Sources        Component    Roads  Funding through Ministry of
Prozram      Funding      of funds        Cost        Cost   Transport            Interior
POLAMAZONIA      56,600   PIN 1/           12,300    6,100         7,900          4,400
ALBRAS/          23,600   PIN/FND2/        18,900       -         18,900            -
ALUNORTE
POLOCENTRO       18,900   FND                5,800    3,800        3,800          2,000
PROMAT           14,200   PIN                3,200    3,200        3,200            -
GEOECONOMICA      6,600   FND               1,400      -             -            1,400
PROSUL            4,200   FND                2,600    2,600        2,600            -
PRODOPAR          2,400   FND                  200      200          200            -
PRONOPAR          1,900   PROTERRA 3/          200      -             -             200
POLONORDESTE       N/A                        N/A   18,900            _             -
POLONOROESTE        -                           -       -             -             -
4/
TOTAL            128,400 4/                44,600   34,800        36,600          8,000
1/ Program of National Integration
2/ National Development Fund
3/ Program for the Redistribution of Land and Promotion of Agroindustry
4/ Not including POLONORDESTE
Source: Ministry of Transport
April 1982



- 39 -
TABLE 1.6
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PRDJECT
Bank Involvement in Feeder Roads in Brazil (1972-1982)
Loan Anrut       Feeder
Feeder Roads      (US$ million)      Roads
Cost                  Feeder   Length
Loan    Year  (US$ million)       Total  Roads       (km)
Rural Development Projects
Alto Turi I (Maranhao)             853-BR    1972         6.7           6.7      5.0       238
Sao Francisco I                   1153-BR    1975         1.0          23.0      0.4        64
Ceara I (I Ibiapaba)              1488-BR    1977         7.8          17.0      2.4       370
Brejo I (Paraiba)                 1537-BR    1978        17.6          24.0      6.3       322
Paraguacu I (Bahia)               1589-BR    1978        23.6          37.0      8.3     1,139
Sergipe                           1714-BR    1979        10.0          26.0      4.4       560
Pernambuco                        1728-BR    1979        19.6          40.0      6.7       950
Sao Francisco III                 1729-BR    1979         2.3          28.0      0.7       251
Minas Gerais II                   1877-BR    1980        29.1          63.0    11.5      3,360
Ceara II                          1924-BR    1981        32.8          56.0     15.7    2,200
Piaui                             2015-BR    1981         7.1          29.0      3.0     1,750
N.W. I Agric. Devt.-Rondonia      2060-BR    1982        43.8          67.0     14.5     3,900
N.W. II Agric. Devt.-Mato Grosso  2116-BR    1982        15.4          26.4      5.4     1,470
Anmzonas                          2163-BR    1982         9.7          26.4      3.2       500
Maranhao                          2177-BR    1982        32.4          42.7     10.7     1,150
Subtotal                                           258.9         512.2    98.2    18,225
Feeder Roads Projects
Secondary and Feeder Roads        1207-BR    1976       194.70         55.0     55.0     5,402
Second Feeder Roads               1730-BR    1979       337.30        110.0   110.0    4,790
Subtotal                                           532.00        165.0    165.0    10,192
Northwest Highway Project       2062-BR    1981        45.00        240.0     14.8       988
Total                                              835.9         917.2   278.0   29,405
Source: Appraisal mission
November 1982



-40                               TABLE 1.7
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Petroleum Product Price Structure and Road User Charges
A. Gasoline and Diesel Prices and Taxes (1975-1982)
(Cr5 n_r lire
Distri-            Gasoline   Other taxes assessed
Refinery    bution  Retailing   tax                  orn             Retail
Price       Costs    Costs   (IUtCLG)   Refinery Distribution  Price
REGULAR GAS
Jan 1975       1.16       0.07      0.15       0.31        0.29       0.03        2.01
Jan 1976       1.91       0.10       0.22       1.04       0.15       0.18        3.60
Jan 1977                                                                          4.75
Jan 1978       2.99       0.19       0.47      1.44        0.79       0.42        6.30
Jan 1979       3.91       0.28       0.57      2.00        1.64                   8.40
Jan 1980       5.56       0.38       1.10       3.24      12.32                  22.60
Jun 1980      24.34       0.68       2.12      2.56         4.80                 34.50
Dec 1980      34.50       0.91       3.20      2.56         7.83      2.00       51.00
Feb 1981      34.50       1.02       3.60      3.86       13.02       4.00       60.00
Oct 1981       n/a        n/a       n/a        n/a         n/a        n/a        85.00
Feb 1982                                                                        104.00
Jun 1982                                        1" 25.00
Sept1982                                                                        144.00
DIESEL OIL
Jan 1975       0.67       0.06       0.14      0.16        0.06       0.03        1.12
Jan 1976       0.90       0.08       0.19      0.37        0.09       0.09        1.72
Jan 1977                                                                          2.34
Jan 1978       1.54       0.14       0.42      0.52        0.45       0.43        3.50
Jan 1979       2.12       0.22       0.49      0.71         1.06                  4.60
Jan 1980       5.50       0.31      0.90       1.15        4.14                  12.00
Jun 1980       8.56       0.41       1.50      0.55        1.48                  12.50
Dec 1980      14.20       0.68       2.30      0.57        2.25                  20.00
Feb 1981      14.20       0.75      2.70       0.86        5.49       2.00       26.00
Oct 1981       n/a        n/a       n/a        n/a         n/a                   50.00
Source: Conselho Nacional de Petroleo
Refinery price refers to "PETROBRAS"
B. Road Expenditures and Road User Charges
(1975-1980)
------------- Constant January 1981  Cr$ million -----
1975       1976          1977         1978         1979         1980
(Inflator)l/                 (12.775)    (9.044)       (6.340)      (4.571)      (2.970)      (1.416)
Road Expenditures
DNER expenditures            131,722      135,639      118.189      117,216      106,039       86,944
DERs expenditures              n/a        141.692      151,006      170,105      131,924       91,846
n/a       277,331       269,195      287,321      237,963      178,790
Road user charges
2/
Gasoline Tax (IULCLG)        104,650.2   212,375.7   191,043.2   176,911.4   147,029.8    72,537.4
Road Transport Tax (ISTR)    3,035.3        5,610.9    12,583.6    13,137.1    12,833.4    13,875.4
Motor Vehicle Tax (TRU)       38,997.0    43,610.2    46,954.0    47,867.5    45,702.4    57,914.4
146,682.5   261,596.8   250,580.8   237,916.0   205,565.6   144,327.2
Tolls                          3,416.0      3,621.2      3,467.9      4,476.4      5,104.8      2,527.6
TOTAL                        150,098.5   265,218.0   254,048.7   242,392.4   210,670.4   146,854.8
User charges/Expendit.ratio  n/a              .96           .94          .84          .89          .82
1/   Fundacao Getulio Vargas "Conjontura Economica" Column 2.
2/   Change in Federal Government policy from an ad-valorem tax prior to 1980
to a fixed tax amorit in 1980. The result is that in real terms, the tax per
liter in 1980 was one fourth of the tax applied prior to 1980.
Source: Boletim do Banco Central do Brasil, Match 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981.
November 1982



- 41 -                                  TABLE 1.8
BRAZIL
THID FEEDER ROADS PROJECI
DERs' Sources and Uses of Funds
a. DERs' Sources of Funds
(in current Cr$ million, and % of total)
Sources of funds         1976            1977         1978         1979          1980 1/
gasoline tax (IULJC)   4,981   .33   6,846  .32  7,668  .22  11,680  .26  16,135  .25
lioense tax (TRU)       1,177   .08   2,044  .09  2,458  .07   2,703  .06   6,752  .10
circulation tax (ISTR)    -      -        35   -      279  .01      302  .01      855  .01
s/total user charges   6,158   .41      -     .41  10,405  .30   14,685  .33   23,742  .36
delegation DNER          297   .02       267  .01    515  .01       896  .02   3,433  .05
States own resources    5,826   .39   8,167  .38  15,725  .45   18,072  .40   18,381  .29
foreign borrowirng       416   .03       483  .02    965  .03       872  .02    1,138  .02
dometic borroAng         640   .04       837  .04  2,475  .07   2,951  .07    5,170  .08
others                  1,727   .11   3,003  .24   5,021  .14   7,338  .16   12,999  .20
Total (current terms)  15,064   1.00  21,682  1.00  35,104 1.00  44,820  1.00  64,863 1.00
(inflator)  2/        (9.044)         (6-34))      (4,571)       (2,970)       (1,416)
Total (real terms)    136,238        137,464       160,460      133,115        91,846
index                  1.00            1.01         1.18           .98           .67
b. lERs' Uses of Funds
(in current Cr$ millions, and % of total)
Uses of funds            1976           1977         1978          1979          1980
Total Expenditures     15,667   1.00  23,812  1.00  37,214 1.00  44,419  1.00  64,863 1.00
recurrent expenditures  3,743   .24   5,458  .23  8,264  .22   12,778  .29   18,145  .28
capital expenditures   11,924   .76  18,360  .77  28,950  .78  31,641  .71   46,719  .72
of which investments   10,243   .65  14,568  .61  25,594  .69  29,430  .66  40,924  .63
others            1,681   .11    3,792  .16   3,356  .09    2,211  .05   5,795  .09
1/    tentative (DNER forecast, urxzonfirnmd)
2/    Fundacao Getullo Vargas *Conjontura Econanica", Jarmry 1981 Cr$
Source: 1DER
March 1982



- 42 -                                     TABLE 1.9
BRAZ1
TERD EEEIR RADS PROJECT
State and DER Debts
a. Debt situation as of Decenber 1980 and October 1981
(disbursed, current Cr$ million)
States debt                   DERs debt         DERs RevenLes
States                  1980            1981         1980          1981          1980
Acre                      278.2           307.4         78            85.2          545
Amazonas                1,606.2         2,319.6       1,213        1,213.2        1,301
Para                    5,499.1         9,454.0      1,381         1,381.5          954
AIagoas                 5,831.4        11,717.3        575         1,399.7          524
Bahia                  33,079.9        71,882.8      2,014         3,298.5        4,811
Ceara                  10,763.0        28,596.8        613           612.9        1,235
Mararhi                 6,406.7        18,896.5        159           169.4          604
Paraiyi                 4,760.2         8,327.1        627         1,892.3          364
Pernabuco              24,238.2        48,115.3      1,619         1,860.1        1,688
Piaui                   3,085.9         5,236.4         58            57.9        2,580
Rio Grarxe Norte        2,743.0         5,624.4         30            50.8         668
Sergipe                 2,591.1         7,087.4        547           725.8         543
Espiritu Santo          8,866.3        14,391.2        618           793.6         969
Minas Gerais           71,453.6       133,437.1      1,863         3,354.7        7,951
Rio de Janeiro         52,551.1    1,109,047.0         635           477.8        3,837
Sao Paulo             113,944.0       252,722.0      7,268        11,993.1       15,948
Parana                 30,793.6        63,072.2      2,195         5,765.8        5,178
Rio Grande Do Sul      37,951.4        72,942.8      1,403         3,302.1        3,474
Santa Catarina         23,106.9       53,608.6          31         2,526.8        1,292
Goias                  13,594.3        21,770.8        781         1,157.1        1,919
Mato Grcsso            10,353.2         8,856.5        777           777.0        1,405
Mato Grcsso Sul         1,882.7         5,107.5        226           394.3        1,759
TOTAL              465,380.0       952,521.1     25,051        43,570.0       58,479
b. Evolution of State and DER overall debt 1977-1981
(disb3rsed, current Cr$ billion)
as of Deoember:       1977            1978         1979          1980           1981
(inflator)          (6.340)         (4.571)      (2.970)       (1.416)        (0.718)
State overall debt
- current Cr$ billion         89            144           258           465           953
- caost. 1/1981 Cr$ billion   564            658          766           658           684
DER overall debt
- current Cr$ billion          1              5            13            25            43
- const. 1/1981 Cr$ billion    6             23            39            35            31
DERs overall reventues
- current Cr$ billion         20             32            41            59 2/
I/    Fundacao Getulio Vargas "Conjontura Econamica"
2/    DNER preliminary estimate
Souroe: Central Bark of Brazil
April 1982



- 43 -                   TABLE 3.1
BRAZIL
HTIRD FEEDER RDADS PPDEC=
Main Features of Orgoing Feeder Roads Project
a. Financing                       BANK  BNDE  _NER  SUB-BOR    TDL
First Project (Loan 1207-BR)        55.0  56.7  17.9   60.5    189.6
Second Project (Loan 1730-BR)      110.0  113.3  31.1   88.2    342.6
Northwest Project (Loan 2062-BR)    14.8  16.6   4.6    9.0        45.0
Total (Current US$ million)       179.8  186.6  53.6  157.2    577.2
b. Subproject Distribution by     Group A   Group B   Group C
State Groups 1/               States    States    States    TDTAL
First Project                      120.7       52.2      16.7    189.6
Second Project                     209.3      111.1      22.2    342.6
Northwest Project                   45.0        -         -       45.0
Total (current US$ million)       375.0       163.3     38.9    577.2
Percentage                         65%        28Z        7%       100%
Nrumer of Subprojects              22         10         2         34
Lergth Distribution by Class 2/
No. of Lergth         of Roads and Surfacing (%)
c. Scope of Projects   Links    Km   A   B   C   D   E  Paved Gravel
First Project           165   5,402  81  17    2   -   -   23    77
Second Project          266   4,790  15  16   8  23  38   33    67
Northwest Project        24      942   -   -   -  100   -    -   100
Total (weigthed)       455  11,134  (46) (15) (4) (19) (16) (25)  (75)
1/ Groups A, B. C correspond to low, middle ard high income States (Table 1.4)
2/ Road Class stand3ards in Table 4.3
Source: Appraisal Mission
Navember 1982



- 44 -
TABI 3 . 2
B AZIL
TtURD FEEDER RQADS PROJECT
Portfolio of Subprojects and Status
(as of September 30, 1982)
Scope (km)l/      Total Cost (US$m equi.)2/     IBRD-finarced (US$m)2/
Physical
Subprojects  Initial    Reform.       Initial    Reform.    1207-BR   1730-BR   2062-BR       Progress 3/
1. Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR)
DER-ff(I)       336         199          2.818       2.818       .800        -                Terminated
DER-SUL(I)      278         251          5.956      9.012       1.382     1.003                      .64
DER-GO(I)       650         628         14.752      14.752      3.422        -                Canpleted
CRIBA-(I)       493         493         14.743      14.743      3.420        -                Cumpleted
DER-M           627         614         18.554      33.230      4.304     4.726                     .98
DER-PB(I)        84          84          2.985      3.232        .970      .080              Canpketed
DER-SC(I)       179         179          9.687      17.080      3.119     2.380                      .87
DER-SC(Il)      193         193          9.227      18.487      2.971     2.982                     .82
CIN1FA (T)       63 Br       62 Br       3.693      7.570       1.189     1.249                     .95
DER-GO(II)      639         639         16.992     34.077       5.573     5.604                      .26
DER-SP (I)      736         455         16.237     20.927       3.767     1.524                     .41
DER-PR (I)      533         407          9.845     19.158       3.170     2.999                     .21
DER-PR (II)     526         233          9.827      9.827       3.138    -                           .30
DER-AL  (I)      78          36          2.430      4.306        .797      .615                      .15
DER-PA          622         390         21.178     21.178       6.947     -                          .19
DER-BA          661         601         26.205     26.205       8.595     -                          .36
Total Project 6.657       5.402        185.129     256.602     53.565     23.162                    .58
+ 63 Br    + 62 Br
2. Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR)
DM-FPE        1.219       1.004         37.482     52.482                 17.236                    .45
DAER-E          307         307          6.753     11.229                  3.683                    .62
DER-SE           43          43          3.098       3.477                 1.140                     .92
DER--ES         323         323         16.277     29.520                  9.683                    .04
CRIBA (II)      511         511         18.561      34.506                11.318                     .07
DER-AC          207         207          7.233      6.028                  1.977                     -
DER-PB (II)     137         137         12.093      12.093                 3.967                     .29
CODERPI         461         461          9.957      9.957                  3.266                     .24
CINTEA (II)     239 Br      239 Br      19.590      19.590                 6.308                     .20
DAER-RS         157         157         19.460     19.460                  6.266                     -
DER-SUL (II)    401         401         15.762      15.762                 5.170                     .29
DER-RN (I)      254         254          7.264      7.264                  2.383                     _
DER-SP (II)     316         316         17.862      17.862                 5.805
CODER-RJ        267         267         11.420      11.097                 3.573
DER-PR (III)    385         385         17.438     17.950                  5.780              appraisal underuay
DER-AL (II)      27          27          2.559      2.556                   .839
Total Project 5.015       4.790        222.623     270.828                88.394                    .19
+ 239 Br   +239 Br
3. Northwest Higmlay Project
DER-RO          496         496         22.5        22.5                           7.4              .05
DER-+f  (II)    446         446         22.5       22.5                            7.4               _
Total Project   942         942         45.0        45.0                          14.8              .02
TOTAL PROGRAM 12.614     11.134        452.752     572.430     53.565     111.556 14.8
+ 302 Br  +301 Br
V Except specified by "Br" for bridges
2/ Eccharge rates: Ist loan I ClN = US$11.71; 2nd loan ORTN = LS$11.2
3/ In percentage of road length equivalent as of September 30, 1982
Source: Appraisal Mission
November 1982



BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Distribution of Road Length by ERRs for Road Investments Financed under the
First and Second Feeder Roads Projects (Loans 1207-BR and 1730-BR)
of road   Total Length          Proportion of road length with ERR between (%)
links    (kilometers)   12.15   15.20   20.25   25.20   30.35   35.40   over 40
(a)  By Region
Total            431          10192          23        21       19      13    10          4        10
North             21            851           -        -        57      19    24          -         -
North east       215           3694           9        30       19      18      7         5       12
South east        88           1975          42        16       12       9      8         5        8
South             58           1554          36        16        7       9    10          9       13
Center west       49           2118          29        19       22       9    12          -
(b) By category of state income
Low income       289           6735          20        12       26      16    11          4       11
Middle income   111            2686          47        14       10        7     7         7         8
High income       31            771          10        23       10      20    18          3        16
Source:  Appraisal Mission
April 1982



BRAZIL
-MMTHRD FEE"nR ROADS PROJECT
BNDES' Feeder Roads Lending Program, 1977-mid 1985
Commitments of Subprojects by semester (Total Costs, Current US$ million equivalent)
--Ongoing project.                                                             Proposed Third Project
States    Year  1977           1978         1979           1980         1981          1982          1983           1984            1985
senester   1    2       1      2     1       2      1      2     1       2     1       2     1        2     1       2       1
Bahia                   15.0                               26.9         34.5                          10.0                            18.0
Goias                   15.0                               17.4                                                             22.0
Mato Grosso              2.9                                                                  22.5 1/              50.0  2/
Minas Gerais                   19.0                                                                                          28.0
Paraiba                                              3.0                        12.0                  10.0
Rio G. Sul                                           3.8                        39.1                   9.0                           30.0
S. Catarina                                         19.4                                              11.0         11.0
S. Paulo                                      16.7                              17.9                                                  39.0
Alagoas                                                     2.5                  2.6                                11.0
Parana                                                     10.0  10.2                 18.0                                  39.0
Para                                                              21.7                                             11.0
Mato G. Sul                                                        6.1          15.8                         22.0                                   1
Pernambuco                                                        36.2                                             22.0                            41
Sergipe                                                            3.0                                        9.0
Espiritu S.                                                       15.7                                                                11.0
Ceara                                                              6.6                                 5.0          6.0
Acre                                                               6.0                                                                 5.0
Piaui                                                                            9.9                          5.0
Rio G. Norte                                                                     7.3                                9.0
Rio de Janeiro                                                                        11.0                                   28.0
Rondonia                                                                                      22.5  1/       50.02/
Maranhao                                                                                                     11.0
Anazonas                                                                                                      5.0
Amape                                                                                                                                  5.0
Roraima                                                                                                                                5.0
Federal District                                                                                       3.0
Reformulation                                                                  107.0
Total Prog.(1077.2) -   32.9  19.0    -      16.7  26.2   56.8  105.5  34.5  211.6  29.0    45.0   48.0  102.0 120.0    117.0    113.0         W
Total proposed third project (500)                                                                    48.0  102.0 120.0   117.0   113.0        t
1/ Under review by the Bank; conponent of Northwest Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR)
2 Second phase of Northwest Region Development Program under Proposed Project.
Source: BNDES
November 1982



BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Loan Disbursements
BNDES Reimbursable Disbursements            Proiect Expenditures               Front end             Total
Disbursed      Cumulative   Cumulative  Disbursed    Cumulative   Cumulat*           fee      Cumulative    Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year          in Quarter   Disbursements Percentage  in Quarter  Disbursements Percent.  (rounded)  Disbursements  Percentage
1983
March     31, 1983            -                -            -           14.0          14.0         9.2          2.3           16.3           10.6
June      30, 1483            -                -            _             -           14.0         9.2           -            16.3           10.6
1984                                                                                              9.                          6410.6
September 30, 1983            .1               .1           .1            .1          14.1        9.3           -            16.4
December  31, 1983            .2               .3           .2            .2          14.3        9.4           -            16.6            10.8
March     31, 1984            .8              1.1           .7            .8          15.1       10.0           -            17.4            11.3
June      30, 1984          1.7               2.8          1.8           1.7          16.8       11.1           -            19.1            12.4
1985
September 30, 1984          3.0               5.8          3.8           3.0          19.8       13.1           _            22.1           14.4
December  31, 1984          4.9              10.7          7.1           4.9          24.7       16.3           -            27.0            17.5
March     31, 1985           6.1             16.8         11.1           6.1          30.8       20.3           -             33.1           21.5
June      30, 1985          8.3              25.1         16.5           8.3          39.1        25.8           -           41.4            26.9
1986                                                                                                                           10311
September 30, 1985           9.6             34.7         22.9           9.6          48.7       32.1                        51.0            33.11
December  31, 1985         11.2              45.9         30.3          11.2          59.9        39.5          -             62.2           40.4
March     31, 1986          12.4             58.3         38.4          12.4          72.3        47.7           -            74.6           48.4
June      30, 1986         13.5              71.8         47.3          13.5          85.8       56.6            -           88.1            57.2
1987
September 30, 1986          12.9             84.7         55.8          12.9          98.7        65.1           -           101.0           65.6
December  31, 1986          12.2             96.9         63.9          12.2         110.9        73.1           _           113.2           73.5
March     31, 1987          11.3            108.2         71.3          11.3         122.2        80.6           -           124.5           80.8
June      30, 1987          10.0            118.2         77.9          10.0         132.2        87.1           -           134.5           87.3
1988
September 30, 1987           8.9            127.1         83.8           7.2         139.4       91.9            _          141.7            92.0
December  31, 1987           7.3            134.4         88.6           3.7         143.1        94.3           -           145.4           94.4
March     31, 1988           6.2            140.6         92.7           3.1         146.2        96.4           -           148.5           96.4
June      30, 1988           4.4            145.0         95.6           2.2         148.4        97.8           -           150.7           97.9          |
1989                                                                                                                                                        M
September 30, 1988           3.4            148.4         97.8           1.7         150.1        98.9           -           152.4           99.0 D
December  31, 1988           2.1            150.5         99.2           1.0         151.1        99.6           -           153.4           99.6
March     31, 1989           1.0            151.5         99.9            .5         151.6        99.9           -           153.9           99.9
June      30, 1989            .2            151.7        100.0            .1         151.7       100.0           -           154.0          100.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1989
Source: Mission Estimates
November 1982



- 48 -
TABLE 4.3
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Design Standards for Feeder Roads
Class A Class B Class C Class D Class E Class F
Specification             Type of Terrain   Road        Road      Road      Road      Road      Road
Tenth Year Traffic (ADT)                         700-300  400-200  250-100  150-50         75-0      i5-0
F to R.!        80        80        60        60        50        not
Design Speed (km/h)                R to HI/        60        60        40        40        40       appli-
H to M1/        40        40        30        30        30       cable
F to R         200       200       110       110        70        5/
Minimum Radius (m)                 R to H         110       110        50        50        45        5/
H to M          50        50        30        30        30        5/
F to R           3         4         5         6         8        5/
Maximum Gradient (%)               R to H            5         6         7         8       10        5/
H to M           7         8         9        10        12        5/
F to R         100       100        75        75        50
Stopping Sight Distance (m)        R to H          75        75        50        50        50
H to M          50        50        50        50        50
F to R         500       500
Passing Sight Distance (m)         R to H         350       350
H to M         175       175
Right of way (m)                                  Offset width plus 20 meters (on rural area)
F to R        9.00      8.00      7.50       7.00!!  6.00!!  6.00!!
Roadway Width (m)                  R to H        9.00      8.00      7.50       7.00o/  6.002/  6.002/
H to M        9.00      8.00      7.50       7.002/  6.001/  6.oo0/
F to R        7.00      6.00      5.50
Carriageway WidthJ (m)             R to H        7.00      6.00      5.50
H to M        7.00      6.00      5.50
F to R        1.00      1.00      1.00
Shoulder Width3/ (i)               R to H        1.00      1.00      1.00
H to M        1.00      1.00      1.00
Overall Width Bridges (m)                          9       7.50      7.50       5.20    5.204/        6/
1/ Flat to Rolling (F to R) terrain is on vertical slopes less than 5%
Rolling to Hilly (R to H) terrain is on vertical slopes between 5% and 20%
Hilly to Mountainous (H to M) terrain is on vertical slopes more than 20%
2/ Including lateral drainage ditches
3/ Carriageway and shoulders provide for possible future pavement requirements
4/ Bridges to be timber designed to ABNT's 36 ton load standard
5/ No improvement unless exceptional conditions make passage of vehicles impossible.
6/ Culverts and fords unless duration of high waters dictates a bridge.
Source: Manual and Mission Estimates for Class F
March 1982



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Subproject Typical Cycle and Implementation Schedule
1.        The subproject typical cycle includes the following steps:
(a) Identification: The identification step is formally initiated by
identification meetings with BNDES, DNER, the prospective sub-
borrower and the relevant DER, state planning and agriculture
agencies, which are concluded by a Memorandum of Understanding, and
it is completed with the sub-borrower's formal application for
assistance to BNDES (Carta Consulta), as defined in paragraph 4.16,
no later than 60 days after the memorandum of understanding;
(b) Review of application: The review of the sub-borrower's
application by BNDES, assisted by DNER, is concluded by BNDES'
preliminary commitment (enquadramento) to finance the proposed
subproject for a given amount; BNDES' preliminary commitment,
issued not later than 30 days after receipt of the application,, is
conditional to the timely implementation of the subproject
feasibility study according to an agreed schedule, which would
normally not extend over four months after BNDES' preliminary
commitment;
(c) Feasibility study: The implementation of the feasibility study,
generally carried out by consultants, possibly directly by the
sub-borrower, is closely monitored by BNDES/DNER through an initial
orientation mission and a mid-term supervision mission;
(d) Appraisal: Subproject appraisal is initiated by a BNDES/DNER
appraisal mission and completed with the issuance, not later than
three months after receipt of the feasibility study, of BNDES'
subproject appraisal report, prepared with the assistance of DNER;
(e) Bank review of subproject: BNDES' subproject appraisal report is
reviewed by the Bank. The Bank approves ex-ante BNDES' decision to
finance subprojects the total cost of which exceeds predetermined
limits (para 4.38). The Bank has 60 days from receipt of BNDES'
appraisal report to express its views, after which subproject
approval is BNDES' responsibility;
(f) Subloan preparation: Preparation by BNDES of subloan documents and
negotiations lead to subloan signature, normally not later than
three months after Bank approval of subproject;



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(g) Subloan regularization: The administrative procedures for subloan
regularization, which include procedures at both federal and state
levels, in particular subloan approval by the Central Bank and
SEST, generally require between one and three months before subloan
effectiveness;
(h) Final engineering: Final designs are generally contracted to
consulting firms. Under the proposed project, final engineering
carried out directly by the sub-borrower would also be eligible for
financing, in order to allow a more efficient technical assistance
by BNDES/DNER for low standard road designing. Final designs are
presented by links or sets of links, when completed, to BNDES/DNER
for review and approval;
(i) Bidding and contracting: Bidding and contracting generally require
an average of 190 days after approval of final designs, and about a
year for the entire subproject. DNER's review of bid documentation
has been too long (70 days in average); it would be simplified
under the proposed project (para 4.28); and
(j) Execution of works and supervision: Experience under the first
project has shown that the time required for execution of works is
not sensitive to the size of the subproject, provided the subproj-
ect is in line with sub-borrower's implementation capability.
Overall implementation of completed subprojects has taken an aver-
age of three years and nine months. Under the proposed project,
implementation schedules would not extend over three years, and a
closer followup by BNDES/DNER, through DNER's resident engineers,
would provide greater assurances in reducing the incidence of
implementation problems.
2.        Based on the experience gained under the first two projects, and
taking account of the updated procedures under the proposed project, the
typical subproject preparation-implementation schedule would be as shown in
the table on the next page.
April 1982



SUEPERJECT TYPICAL P1PARAI0IIMEATI0N SQIEIEJLE
A. SUEPRDJECT PREPARATION                               Year                       1                                   2
Step/action                                      mnths 1  2  3   4   5  6   7  8   9   10 11   12            1  2  34
1. Identification
Sub-borrower's application to BNDE (Carta Consulta)            o
2. Review of application
BNDE's preliminary commitment (exjuadramnito)                      o
3. Feasibility study
4. appraisal
issuance of BNDE's appraisal report                                                            0
5. Bank review of subproject
Bank approval                                                                                    o
6. Subloan preparation                                                                                                _
Subloan signature                                                                                                    0
7. Subloan regularization
Ul
Subloan effectiveness                                                                                                   0                 I
B. SUBPROJE  IMPIEMENATION
Step /action                                       Year         1                2                 3                4
quarter 1   2   3  4   1    2  3  4    1   2   3  4    1   2   3   4
8. Final engineering
review and approval of final designs                                              ............
9. Bidding and contractirg
review of bids and approval of contract awards                                            ...............
l1.Execution of civil works and supervision
follow-up by BNDE/DNER                                                                    ....................................
Source: Mission estimate
March 1982



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Simplifications to the Economic Evaluation of Low Standard Roads
1.        The Manual describes in detail the steps required to assess the
economic feasibility of roads according to the following two methods:
(a)  the vehicle-operating savings (VOCS) method, which is recommended
to be used for improvement or rehabilitation of roads in compara-
tively developed areas, where traffic is already substantial (say,
above 100 vehicles per day). However, only savings accruing from
normal traffic and its historic growth are to be considered.
Savings from generated and diverted traffic, and benefits
attributable to time savings, are not accepted to avoid spurious
accounting of unlikely benefits; and
(b)  the value-added method, which is recommended for relatively
undeveloped areas, where the prime objective is not only to provide
the area with a basic transport infrastructure, but with a number
of other facilities and services which would remove, all taken
together, constraints to the development of the area.  In these
cases, a program which includes the full package of investments
required to realize the expected socio-economic benefits needs to
be well defined. The evaluation method for such program areas
consists of comparing the expected producer surplus in the area of
influence of the road link considered, with the investments,
including the road investment, which are directly aimed at
improving production and marketing conditions in the area of
influence.
2.        A combination of the vehicle operating cost savings method and the
value-added method is also accepted to assess the economic feasibility of
road links in intermediate cases, in particular for Class C roads with an
average daily traffic of less than 200 vehicles. In these cases, only VOCS
of non-agriculture related traffic are taken into account, in order not to
double count benefits.
3.        When the proposed project refers to a program area and is assessed
by the value added method, a detailed description of the area of influence of
each road link is required in both situations with and without the proposed
subproject, year by year over its 10-year lifetime period. The information
required includes land use and, for each crop, productivity, production,
self-consumption and surplus. The value added is determined for each year
and each product as the value of the total production at market prices after
deduction of production and transport costs, and an economic rate of return
is calculated for each road link separately.



- 53 -
Ai.kEX 2
Page 2
4.        There was a general reluctance to use the proposed value-added
method during the first project.  In the course of the second project, BNDES
has generally performed well in ensuring that sub-borrowers select low
standard roads in program areas and evaluate them through this method,
following the guidelines of the Manual. Although its use has improved
significantly, the method is still viewed, by some sub-borrowers, as too
difficult in many cases, and, in particular, too demanding on information
that is generally costly to obtain and that does not drastically improve the
accuracy of the evaluation. This is generally the case for subprojects which
include a number of road links in areas where land use and production do not
vary much between sub-areas to be served by the proposed investments.
5.        Under the proposed project, the economic evaluation of Class D, E
and F roads included in program areas would be simplified in view of using
available information first, and developing new information only if and where
absolutely indispensable. It would be allowed and recommended that road
links of the above classes serving sub-areas with similar land use and
production patterns be evaluated all together as a set of links instead of
link by link separately. For that purpose, typical land use and yield
patterns, representative of the areas of influence of the set of links, would
be defined and serve as a basis to evaluate the value added. Only the
principal crops which constitute the bulk of the farmers' income (say above
95% of farmers' total income) would be taken into account, and a maximum
deviation from typical patterns would be determined in the Addendum to the
Manual to define the conditions for grouping links into sets of links.
Yields would be taken as municipality averages, except if other yields have
been verified. The increases in production costs would be assumed to equal
certain percentages of the value of the production increase. These
percentages would be specified as a function of the agricultural crop
involved. Agricultural prices would be assumed to remain constant. Benefits
would be calculated for subproject year 1, year 5 and year 10 and then
interpolated for intervening years.
6.        Preliminary engineering designs and estimates of the costs of works
at the feasibility stage, which constitute the basis for determining subloan
amounts, would continue to be made by link. The other investments (other
than the proposed road subproject) to be made in the areas of influence of
the roads, as part of the program, would be incorporated as an area-wide
average cost per hectare cultivated or per farmer served, except where this
is impractical. An economic rate of return would be calculated for each set
of links (or individual link not included in a set), and BNDES would, during
appraisal, calculate for each set the road investment cost switching values.
This method would allow an easy checking of the feasibility of individual
links on the basis of cost estimates at the time of appraisal and, later, at
final design and bid stages and would avoid the revision of the feasibility
study currently necessary when costs overrun appraisal estimates by more than
20%. Updated requirements and guidelines related to the above changes in the
evaluation methodology would be detailed in the Addendum to the Manual (AM),
and BNDES' appraisal procedures would be laid out in the Operational Manual
(OM).
April 1982



- 54 -                                                      CHART 1
BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC AND SOCLAL DRVELOPHENT BANK (BNDES)
CONSELHO SO BANCO| CONSRLNO FISCAL
D I R E T O R I A
P R E SI D E N T E
1   11   ILI   IV   V
EPADTAMSSTI SE FLANEJAHENTO           | DEPARTA OE.TIA I-EXA r
AREA DE PLANEJAHENTOE                                                 TO D                     ARADIAMNSTAA
SUPERINTENDENTE       _  DEPARTAMENTO DE PRIORIDADES            IDEPARTAKENTO ADHINISTRATIVO      _        SUPERITENDENTE
ASSESSORIA DE                                                                              ASSES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SORIA DE
COOROENACAO   I               I       I                              I                      ODORD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENACAO
H    DEPARTANENTO DE OSCASENTI |         DEPARTAMENTI DE PESSOAL
H   E AVALIACAD      |       | DEPASTAMENTO PINANCEIRO
EEPARTAAENTO DE        I                PARTAHENTO DE                   AREA DE FINASCAS
AREA SE FEOJETIS - I              INDUSTRIAS Q9TIMCAS                        CONTABILIDADE                 -- _   -
I~ ~ ~~~~---                                               SUPERINTENDENTEII
I~ ~ ~~~~N' ASIFS7AD              EATMNODEIDSRA                                                                             SESRAD
|  COORDENACAO    I            H    HETALORIICAI E MISIOACAI  |          |ODEPAXTAMEN TO DE RECURSOS
IEDPTO. IF INDUSTTRIA  TRADI- |      I      DEPARTAKENTO DEO
HCIOSAIS I DE EENS SE CAPITAL|        | OCONSULTORIA JURIDICA
II  AREA JURIDICA      I
DEPARTAHSENTO nE FF111 IA   1       f                             |  I ----------------------
F ALC|                  |  DOPARTAFENTO JUDICIAL                   SUPERINTENDENTEI
I                                                    |              |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ASISESSORIA DEI
DEPARTANENTO DE                     ASISESOSIA JURIDICA       I  IDI                        A        I
IAREA DE FROJETOS -II           DESENVOLVIMENTO AGRICOLA                      DE OPERACOES
|  1    SUPRINTENDNTE 
I  COORDENACAO  I             e          INPRA-ESTRUCTURA       I         DPARTAMENTO DE DIVULGACAO
DEPARTANENTO DE PROJETOS CDHM        D|PATAJUNT  DE PROJETOS
BANCOS DE INVESTIMENTO                     DE COMKUNICACAO
|AREA DR PROJETOS -11      II
I | SUPERINTINDENTE   |    EPTAMENTO DI PROJETOS CA              |      REPRESENTACAO NO                AREA IF REPREENTACAO
I  I   ,   S EANCOS DR IEOENVOLVIMIETO I  I  DISTRITO FEEREAL
I  ASSESSORIA DR  I                                                      I                             I  I  I    SUPERINTENDENTE   I         I
I  COORDENACAO    I                                                                                    I      I           .            AO
PA |ES          DEPATAMENTM   DR-H8RCADO I                                                                SB         D
T_          DE---I  CAPITAS                REPRESENTACAO NO M  SA  PAULOE 1
|AREA SE PARTICIPACOES|                  DSSMRAMIC                   III
I I-----------------I I -------------------PIR ESTACAO NO NORDOTE
| SDPERINTENDENTE   IFBS                                           
IIASBESSORIA DR  I               I 
IICOORDENACAO      IIIII                                                                                            
IB1RA9A              |           RPEETCOEM -j-HNGT.]N-F
SoAprCe: BNDES
NAVeA-e- 1982



- 55 -                       CHART 2
ERAZL
THI  FEEIR ROADS PRAEa
O1CANIZA=ION OF THE SECRETARIAT CERAL OF THE MINISIRY OF TRANPCRT
oSecretaria General
Cabinete
Secretaria de          Secretaria de         Secretaria de          Secretaria de         Secretaria de
Atividades            Coordernacao         Prograancao e          Modernizacao             Assemtos
Especiais           dos TranspDrtes          Orcamento           Administrativa         Irnteniacionais
F Coordenadoria |    | Coordenadoria        Coordenadoria          Coordenadoria            Coordenadoria
de Ciencia e  _      de Trarportes ae Prcgramacao   -    de Organizacao -de Relaces
Temnologia            Rodoviarios           Orcamentaria  !          e Sistemnas            Initernaciornads
| Coordenadoria        Coordenadoria                                  CoorderGdoria de
| de Trasportes        de Prcgranacao           Certro de             Cooperacao Econa-
Ferroviarios           Finanoeira           Irformatica    |         rdmca e Tecnica|
|Coorderiadoria de|
Coaordenadoria   |   Acamparihamento e|
|de Marfiha    F   Aval-iacao da Pro -
| Mercante         | gramacao
Coordenadoria          Coordenadoria 
|de Trarisportes     |de Portos 
Urlbanos           e Hidrovias
Coordnacoes 
|Coordenadoria |
de Prcgramas 
|Especiais
Saurce: Mr
March 1982



BRAZIL
THIRD FEEDER ROADs P0000*5
Organiration of the Federal HSRhua Departaent (DNER)
DIRR               P7 dlR                          [i"
|Finenciol/LegGl |   +              W        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~innca
Pcogrsea Divsion  DivisiO  and lapcovat            and Transi                   TrasNlCTO DGut Dir ctrat n    |                             iiso
Sudat & Coto                Boride  an         l      Sintannce   |     |      Trlls       1       |Right Transpoct                   S |                     DelRacti ;     Pronandl |    binstertis  ndI
Divisionse          Buidings Z Divsi             Dirisionae               Divisions-                DivisionZt                                         T rsinitut  n Divisions            Supirestrt                        J
Studies sod                                        Equipnonc    |        Hghnsy Policy   |Training                                               |     |Classification    |         |Adeinitrcarion       |
|Preojcta Divisio|    Divisioc                                                Division                                               Division    |                  Division X                Divdoion 
TPchnical                 Socio-dsdical
Data Processiog                                                                                                                 Inforestion f  Bid
Division                                                                                                                      DiviCion -  nDivision
DnnrcsC DNER
K*rch 19b2



-    -     -      <r-. -   ------------------------ - -- -                   --       _                                                     IBRD-1424OR
V E N E Z L, F L A5\"~9~0      
VENEZE,F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~FRNE
s.OMBI                                              \ / _ . ' ' C , F dA\E X ) ' - , V 0 @ * ' . 1, _ DE.V 4r - f, YUVNAME N
K                 V~~~~~~~~~~N~  ~ANA    ,
i L 0 t >~~~~~~~-'1-                            --            A                                                                              - -
g                                AA
N,,
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1NI 2I
>7 P i                                                                      n
I,).'. ~ ~       LI 
V.-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
U  0  O-~~~~~~~~~~~k'xbv-                       HGHA
Jt- -                                                                             --



