CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2224 BR
Project Agreement
(Third Feeder Roads Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO
ECONOMICO E SOCIAL
Dated December 21, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2224 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO E SOCIAL
(hereinafter called BNDES).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty-four million dollars ($154,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that BNDES agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)  the Borrower has agreed to make available the proceeds
of the loan to BNDES; and
WHEREAS BNDES, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BNDES shall: (a)    carry out or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices; (b) make available the equivalent of about
$178,800,000 from its own resources for the purposes of the Proj-
ect; and (c) supplement the amount referred to in subparagraph


﻿-2-
(b) above as needed to maintain BNDES' share of the cost of Sub-
projects in Groups A, B and C States as set forth in Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNDES shall lend the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower in accordance with the lending policies and proce-
dures set forth in the Manual and Addendum to the Manual, and
under Sub-loan Agreements whereby BNDES shall obtain from each of
the Beneficiaries rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank, the Borrower and BNDES, including, inter alia, the right of
BNDES to:
(i) require the Beneficiaries to carry out the corre-
sponding Sub-projects with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in accordance with appropriate techni-
cal, financial and engineering practices and to
maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that the Beneficiaries employ, as and when
needed, qualified and experienced consultants to
assist in the carrying out of the Sub-projects;
(iii) require that (A) civil works contracts to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans be
procured (I) under the Borrower's competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(II) by force account for civil works estimated to
cost not more than the equivalent of $250,000 for
which competitive bidding has not been successful,
the aggregate amount of said procurement by force
account under each Sub-project not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000; and (B) the Benefici-
aries maintain adequate files containing, inter
alia, the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award, copies of civil works contracts and the
plans, specifications, reports, and work and pro-
curement schedules for the Sub-projects, such
files to be available at any time for review by
BNDES and the Bank;
(iv) require that the execution schedule for the Sub-
prcjects be for a maximum period of three (3)
years;


﻿-3-
(v) include in the amount of the Sub-loans a price
contingency of not less than twenty per cent
(20%);
(vi) inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request,
the sites, works and construction included in the
Sub-projects and any relevant records and docu-
ments;
(vii) require that the Beneficiaries shall take or cause
to be taken all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Sub-projects;
(viii) require that (A) in Sub-projects where the Benefi-
ciaries are States, Federal Territories, the
Federal District or State Highway Departments,
such Beneficiaries maintain the roads included in
the Sub-projects in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices- (B) in Sub-projects where
the Beneficiaries are municipal consortia, such
Beneficiaries, not being able to maintain the
roads included in the Sub-projects in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices, enter into
agreements with the corresponding States, whereby
such States will undertake to maintain the roads
included in the Sub-projects in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices; (C) in Sub-
projects where the Beneficiaries are individual
municipalities, such Beneficiaries, not being
able to maintain the roads included in the Sub-
projects in accordance with appropriate engineer-
ing practices, enter into agreements with the
corresponding   States  or  Federal   Territories,
whereby such States or Federal Territories will
undertake to maintain the roads included in the
Sub-projects in accordance with appropriate engi-
neering practices; and (D) in Sub-projects where
Beneficiaries are not able to maintain the roads
included in the Sub-projects in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices, such Benefi-
ciaries take the necessary measures to improve
their maintenance capabilities, including, inter


﻿-4-
alia, the employment of qualified and experienced
maintenance consultants;
(ix) obtain all such information as the Bank or BNDES
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of the Beneficiaries; and
(x) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficia-
ries to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loans,
and to accelerate the maturity of the Sub-loans,
upon failure by such Beneficiaries to perform any
of their obligations under the Sub-loan Agreement.
(b) BNDES shall exercise its rights under each Sub-loan
Agreement in relation to the respective Sub-project in such
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower
and BNDES; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
(c) BNDES shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution, a copy of each Sub-loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BNDES shall cause the Beneficiaries to
prepare and execute Sub-projects and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, shall cause the beneficiaries under the
Secondary and Feeder Roads Project, the Second Feeder Roads
Project and the Northwest Region Development Program Highway Pro-
ject to prepare and execute sub-projects under each such project
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Manual and the
Addendum to the Manual.
(b) BNDES shall ensure that all Sub-projects include only
feeder roads which meet the criteria set forth in the Manual and
the Addendum to the Manual.
(c) BNDES shall not make any substantial change in the
Manual or to the Addendum to the Manual without the prior
approval of the Bank and DNER.
Section 2.04. BNDES shall:
(a) maintain its Feeder Roads Working Group, competently
and adequately staffed, which together with the Feeder Roads


﻿-5-
Working Group of DNER, shall be responsible for: (i) the eco-
nomic, financial and technical analysis of each Sub-loan applica-
tion; (ii) the preparation of a report upon which the decision
regarding the application shall be based; (iii) the provision of
assistance to prospective Beneficiaries in the preparation of
support studies; (iv) the provision of advice on the use of
proper methodologies; and (v) the processing of the applications
for assistance under the National Feeder Roads Program; and
(b) maintain its participation in the Joint Steering
Commitee.
Section 2.05. BNDES shall:
(a) promptly furnish to the Bank for approval, all Sub-loan
applications (together with the results of the appraisal of the
proposed Sub-project) regarding (i) any Sub-project where the
Beneficiary is a State, a Federal Territory, the Federal
District, a State Highway Department or a municipal consortium
and whose total cost would exceed the equivalent of 1,000,000
ORTNs, and (ii) any Sub-project where the Beneficiary is a
municipality and whose total cost would exceed the equivalent of
150,000 ORTNs; and
(b) with respect to any such Sub-project which is subject
to prior approval by the Bank, exclude from the Project any
Sub-project, or component thereof, which shall not have been
approved by the Bank.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BNDES shall:
(a) not spend and cause not to be spent an amount above
$50,000,000 equivalent of the funds made available for the
Project in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement in
any single State, except for the State of Sao Paulo, where the
amount shall not exceed $40,000,000 equivalent; or
(b) not delegate to any State or Regional Development Bank
any of its activities concerning the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.07. BNDES shall, by March 31, 1983, furnish to the
Bank for review and comment a draft of the desig- of a management
information system for the National Feeder Roaas Program, which
system is to be established by June 30, 1983 and put into
operation by September 30, 1983.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. BNDES shall: (a) by March 31, 1983, furnish to
the Bank for review and consultation a revised draft of the
Operational Manual; and (b) by June 30, 1983, furnish to the Bank
the Operational Manual.
Section 2.09. BNDES shall: (a) together with DNER, monitor
the progress of the Sub-projects; and (b) furnish to the Bank a
quarterly report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
on such progress, including a schedule of projected commitments
and disbursements.
Section 2.10. (a) BNDES: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the works and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section,  enable   the  Bank's  representatives  to   visit  the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, any Sub-project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it
and the works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BNDES and
the Bank, BNDES shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by BNDES and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
(c) BNDES shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine any relevant records and documents of BNDES in respect of
the Project.
Section 2.11. BNDES shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BNDES shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving such agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.12. (a) BNDES shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, of any Sub-project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BNDES shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of
the Project, of any Sub-project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by BNDES of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.13. BNDES shall retain or cause to be retained all
certificates and relevant documents concerning the nature of the
expenses for which it has applied for reimbursement for the Bank
to review ex-post-facto a sample of bid documents, bid evalua-
tions and contract awards, and records of expenditures for Sub-
projects for which reimbursements are claimed.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNDES shall:
(a) maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project,
including separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditures; and
(b) retain or cause to be retained, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BNDES shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 8 -
(b) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (ii) the report of such audits by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement as
to: (A) whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used
to make payments for goods -received, or works or services
performed; and (B) whether such goods, works and services were
eligible for financing under the Loan Agreement and were used in
the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the records referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect c-. the date upon which     the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BNDES hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement-between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-9-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNDES:
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social
Avenida Republica do Chile, No. 100
20139 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Cable Address:                    Telex:
BADEC                             02133189
Rio de Janeiro                    02132656
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BNDES may be taken or executed by the
president or such other person or persons as the president shall
designate in writing, and BNDES shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Nicolas Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
E SOCIAL
By /s/ Luis Antonio Sande de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
By Is/ Jose Carlos da Fonseca
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Each Sub-loan will be repaid in not less than 8 and not more
than 13 years, including a grace period of not less than I and
not more than 4 years, such grace period to be determined by the
construction period of the respective Sub-project. The last
repayment date of any Sub-loan will be not later than the last
principal payment date of the Loan.
2.   The outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan will be
adjusted periodically to provide for full monetary correction of
such outstanding principal amount. The portion of the outstanding
principal amount of each Sub-loan financed with the proceeds of
the Loan will be adjusted periodically on the basis of the rate
of exchange between the dollar and the cruzeiro in effect at the
time of each such adjustment. The portion of the outstanding
principal amount of each Sub-loan financed with BNDES funds will
be adjusted periodically on the basis of ORTN.
3.   The outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan will bear
interest at the following annual rates:
(a) the amount of the Sub-loan financed with th2 proceeds
of the Loan will initially bear a rate of interest equivalent to
the rate of interest on the Loan in effect at the time of execu-
tion of the Sub-loan Agreement, and the rate of interest on such
amount of the Sub-loan will be adjusted from time to time in
accordance with each adjustment made in the rate of interest on
the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Loan
Agreement.
(b) the amount of the Sub-loan financed with BNDES funds
will bear the following rates of interest:
5 to 7% for the Group A States
6 to 8% for the Group B States
*8 to 10% for the Group C State
4.   The funds made available by BNDES, including the proceeds of
the *Loan, the Borrower's grant, through MT, to the National
Feeder Roads Program referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) (A) of


﻿- 12 -
the Loan Agreement and BNDES' own resources will finance not more
than: (a) 80% of the total cost of each Sub-project of any
Beneficiary in the Group A States; (b) 70% of the total cost of
each Sub-project of any Beneficiary in Group B States; and (c)
60% of the total cost of each Sub-project of the Beneficiary in
the Group C State.


