Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-iZ JV7 Ss
Report No. 6939-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 25, 1987
Africa Region
Eastern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit                      =  Sudanese Pound (LSd)
US$1.00                        =  LSd2.5 (Official Rate at
appraisal - May, 1987)
US$t.00                        =  LSd4.5 (official rate as of
October 3, 1987)
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
1,00 hectare (ha)    =    2.47 acres (ac)    =    2.38 feddans (fd)
0.42 hectare          =    1.04 acre            =    1.00 feddan
1 litre               =    0.26 US gallons    =    0.22 imperial gallons
1 m3=10,000 litres   =    2,600 US gallons           2,200 imperial gallons
1 kilogram            =    2.206 lbs                 0.022 small kantar
45 kilograms          =    99.27 lbs            =    1.0 small kantar
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
1 July - 30 June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABS       Agricultural Bank of Sudan
AMS       Agricultural Machinery Services
ARC       Agricultural Research Corporation
DRC       Domestic Resource Cost
EEC       European Economic Community
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GOS       Government of Sudan
GTZ       Deutsche Gessellshaft for Technische Zusammenarbeit
IA        (Project) Implementing Agency
MFC       Mec1dnized Farming Corporation
MOFEP     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MAR       Ministry of Animal Resources
MOANR     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOEM      Ministry of Energy and Mtning
MPWH      Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NMAC      Nuba Mountains Agricultural Corporation
NMFU      Nuba Mountains Farmers tTnion
NMRDP     Nuba Mountains Rural Development Project
NSA       National Seeds Administration
NWC       National Water Corporation
PMU       Project Management Unit
PPD       Plant Protection Directorate
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PPU       Project Preparation Unit
PY        Project Year
RBPC      Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
RVRL      Regional Veterinary Research Laboratory
SKADP     Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
TA        Technical Assistant/Assistance
UNICEF    United Nations Childrens Education Fund
USAID     United States of America International Development Agency
VSA       Veterinary Services Administration
WSARP     Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project
WSP       Western Savannah P:oject
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary                                     i-ii
I.    BACKGROUND
A.   The Agricultural Sector ...................... 1
B.    Government Policy, Sector Performance and Issues  *..   1
C.    Experience with Past Lending and Rationale
for Bank Involvement .................. 0.............    2
D.    Project Formulation o...............oe,,..e.........  0 4
II.   THE PROJECT AREA
A.    Geography and Demographics ..........................   5
B.   Climate and Natural Resources oo..*ooo*oo......*.*...     5
co*  Infrastructure ..o      ......,.0...0.0................ 0   *0  5
D.    Land Tenure and Farming Systems ....oo.o.........o...   6
Ef  Agricultural Production .o..o.......o................, 6
Fo   Socio-economic Conditions ********..........................   7
Go   Institutional Setting and Agricultural Services .....   8
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives and Relation to
Sector Strategy .o........... ...t..te.. . ....,0000000   9
B.    Project Components ...........000000000........... 00    9
C.    Project Description o.ooooooooooeo.o.oo.ooooooo..o...   10
D.    Project Costs and Financing oo*o..o...oo...o.o..oo...  18
E.   Procurement o                                  .         20
F.    Disbursements.. a a ....................................  21
G.    Accounts and Audits oo.o.o.....eeo00oeeee000eo0o000e0 21
H.    Environmental Impact ................................  22
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Organization and Management .....,..................   23
B.    Annual Work Plans  oo............,..,...............    24
C.    Staffing                      *o.o.      oo.oo    25
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................   26



Page No.
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICING ANID COST RECOVERY
A.    Incremental Production  ..........................   27
B.    Markets and Prices .............................   31
C.    Cost Recovery ...........                 .               32
D.    Fiscal Analysis .....***.***.****************    34
VI.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Quantrifiable Benefits                                       35
B.    Farmers'  Incomes   . ....................         ... .    35
C.  h._n-quantifiable Benefits ............................  36
D.  Impact on Women .........................*  36
E.  Economic Analysis         ............................ .  36
F.  Risks ..       ....................                         38
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................**        39
TABLES
1.  Southern Kordofan:  Area, Production and Yield for Major
Crops (1975 - 1985)
2. Proposed Road Improvements
3. Training and Studies
4. Technical Assistance
5. Summary Account by Project Component
6. Project Preparation Facility
7. Estimated Annual Disbursements by Financirng Agency
8. Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
9. Procurement Procedures
10. Proceeds of the IDA Credit
11. Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
12. Membership of the Project Steering Committee and of the
Advisory Committee
13. Incremental Agricultural Production due to the Project
14, Projected Government Cash Flow
15. Farm Model - Traditional Clay Soil HousehoW.d
!.6. Farm Model - Mechanized Clay Soil Household
17. Farm Model - Traditional Qoz Soil Household
18. Farm Model - Fruit Orchard
19. Project Economic Rate of Return Analysis
20. Sensitivity Analysis, Switching Values
21. Selected Data and Documents Available in the
Project File
CRARTS
1. Project Organization
2. Project Management Unit



MAPS
1* IBRD Map 20629: Project Area
2.  IBRD Map 20630: Extension Units/Transport Network
3.  IBRD Map 20632: Smallholder Mechanized Farming Schemes
4.  IBRD Map 20633: Nomadic Movement
5.  IBRD Map 20631: Wateryards and Hafirs to be Rehabilitated
TECHNICAL VOLUME
A.  Annex 1.  Description of the Project Implementing Agencies
and of the Province's Institutional Framework
B.  Annex 2.  Southern Kordofan Agricultural Extension:  Working
Paper
C.  Annex 3.  Improved Seed Production:  Working Paper
D.  Annex 4.  Veterinary Services:  Working Paper
E.  Annex 5.  Water lnfrastructure Rehabilitation:  Working Paper
F.  Annex 6.  Credit for Private Tractor Purchases
G,  Annex 7.  Operational and Financial Analysis of MNAC and AMS
H.  Annex 8.  Training and Studies:  Working Paper
1.  Annex 9.  Project Economic Analysis:  Working Papers and Data
J.  Annex 10. Road Rehabilitation Preparation Report
K.  Annex 11. Project Cost Tables



REPUBLIC OP SUDAN
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Sudan
IDA Credit:     SDR 15.0 million (US$19.7 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard with 40 years maturity
Co-financing:   AfDB loan US$15.6 million equivalent
Beneficiaries:  Smallholder farmers and agricultural institutions in
Southern Kordofan Province.
Project Objectives and Description:
The main objective of the Project is to provide a sound
institutional framework and, through selected direct interventions, to
assist smallholder farmers and livestock owners in Southern Kordofan to
improve their standard of living through: (i) improved agricultural
services by strengthening selected agricultural institutions In the Project
area; (ii) increased availability of farm inputs; (iii) improved water
supply and road infrastructure; and (iv) improved crop production
technology. Cost recovery systems would be established for appropriate
services and inputs, and measures would be taken to enhance environmental
protection.
Benefits:
The benefits of the Project are: (i) increased production of
crops and livestock products; (ii) increased availability of water; (iii)
improved marketing with improved transport network; (iv) environmental
protection through studies and sound agricultural practices; and (v)
strengthening of the private sector and of Provincial Government
institutions.
Risks:
The weakness of existing institutions and the need to recruit key
staff may affect timely planning and implementation of project activities.
sudan's tenuous economic situation may jeopardize the sustainability of
project initiated activities due to shortage of operating funds, spare
parts and maintenance programs. The project includes measures to minimize
these risks through a strong training and technical assistance program,
recruitment incentives, and establishment of a cost recovery system.



- ii -
Project Components and Estimated Costs
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Water Supply                                        2.3       8.3      106
Agricultural Machinery (Rehabilitation;Credit)   0.4          3.7      4.1
Agricultural Services                               0.9       2.1      3.0
Agricultural Inputs                                 0.8       0.8       1.6
Livestock Health                                    0.6       3.1      3.7
Road Improvement                                    0.9       3.0      3.9
Project Management                                  0.8       3.0      3.8
Institutional Support and Management Training    0.1          1.3       1.4
Contingencies                                       4.0       3.5      7.6
Total                                              10.9      28.9     39.8
Financing Plan
US$ million   % of Total
Agency                                 (equivalent)
GOS and Project Beneficiaries               4.5           11.3
IDA                                       19.7           49.5
African Development Bank                   15.6          39.2
Total                                      39.8          100.0
Estinated Disbursements
Estimated Disbursements by Financing Agency
(US$ million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
IDA     4.2  a/  4.4      4.6       2.3       2.0      1.4      0.7b/   19.7
AfDB    1.1       2.8     3.3       2.9       2.8      2.7       -       15.6
GOS     0.2       0.5     0.7       0.8       1.0      1.3       -       4.5
Total   5.4       7.7     8.6       6.0       5.8      5.4      0.7     39.8
a/  Includes US$1.05 million, which would be disbursed under a PPF prior to
project start-up.
b/  To be disbursed within six months after project completion.
ERR:      25%
Maps:     IBRD Nos: 20629, 20630, 20631, 20632 and 20633



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      Agriculture contributes significantly to Sudan's economy.  It
accounts for about 32% of Sudan's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), is the
source of virtually all exports, employs 70% of the labor force and
supplies inputs for a substantial portion of industrial activity. The
irrigated subsector occupies 4.0 million hectares (ha), and the rainfed
subsector 22 million ha. Of the latter, about 6.0 million are under
mechanized farming and the remainder are farmed traditionaily. Production
of major irrigated crops in 1985/86 consisted of: cotton (450,000 MT);
groundnuts (100,000 MT); sorghum (700,000 MT); and wheat (200,000 MT).
Production of major rainfed crops in 1985/86 included: sorghum (3.1
million MT); millet (480,000 MT); sesame (215,000 MT); groundnuts (220,000
MT) and short staple cotton (9,000 MT). Principal exports comprise cotton
(about 50% of all exports), livestock, animal hides and skins, sesame, gum
arabic and sorghum.
1.02      Bank and Government of Sudan (GOS) reports on the Sudanese
economy show that, in spite of their potential, Sudan's rainfed
agricultural resources are substantially underexploited.  During the
1972-1985 period, this subsector experienced decreases in the production of
groundnuts (30%), sorghum (39%), sesame (40%), gum arabic (42%) and millet
(60%), primarily due to inadequate services, shortages of imported
agricultural inputs and inefficient pricing and marketing mechanisms (see
also paras 1.05 and 1.06). the 1982-1984 drought accentuated these problems
but also resulted in greater awareness and concern about the subsector's
unfulfilled potential and deteriorating resource base.
B. Government Policy, Sector Performance and Issues
1.03      In the past, Government policy has emphasized the development of
the irrigated and mechanized rainfed areas, which have received the
majority of GOS budgetary allocations. By comparison, investments in
traditional rainfed agriculture have been limited. Among the rainfed
areas, the western savannah between latitudes 100 and 140 has significant
potential for increased production. However, its development has been
severely constrained by scarcity of water, the virtual absence of
all-weather roads, an unreliable railway service and the paucity of other
infrastructure. Agricultural services are very limited and social services
are available only in major population centers.
1.04      Recently, GOS adopted a policy of economic recovery which would
limit investments in the irrigated areas to completion of on-going projects
and would, in parallel, foster development of rainfed areas. In pursuit of
the latter, the GOS, with IDA support, developed a "Strategy for
Development of Rainfed Agriculture," published in March 1986. The strategy
calls for increased production and higher incomes in the rainfed areas to
be achieved through strengthened agricultural services, technological
improvements, improved rural infrastructure and increased private sector
investment. The strategy would be implemented through a series of projects
addressing the major issues (described in para. 1.07) constraining
development of the rainfed subsector. Funding for the projects would be
provided primarily from external agencies.



-2-
1.05      Agriculture's contribution to the GDP declined from 38% in
1975/76 to 32% in 1985/86. The main factors responsible for this decline
are (i) the drought from 1982/83 to 1984/85; (ii) the lack of foreign
exchange to purchase agricultural equipment, inputs, and spare parts, and
(iii) until just recently, the overvalued currency which resulted in
relatively low prices for export producers. The drought had a devastating
effect on rainfed agriculture. While production in the irrigated subsector
rose by 8X between 1981/82 and 1984/85, crop production in the rainfed
subsector declined by 66%, and livestock production declined by 20%. Also,
the foreign exchange scarcity had a greater impact on the rainfed than on
the irrigated subsector. The latter is operated by Government parastatals
which benefitted from foreign aid flows, while the rainfed areas are mostly
operated by the private sector, which is more vulnerable to foreign
exchange shortages.
1.06      Major issues affecting agriculture are:  (i)  limited investment;
(ii) weak agricultural institutions, particularly in the traditional
rainfed areas; (iii) scarcity of foreign exchange restricting the
availability of inputs, spare parts, transport equipment and fuel; (iv) the
exchange rate which, until its recent devaluation, adversely affected
agricultural production and exports; (v) the shortage of agricultural
credit, particularly for medium and long term; (vi) the marketing
structure, often restricted to Government monopolies; (vii) Government
pricing regulations disrupting the efficient allocation of productive
resources; (viii) deteriorating physical resources due to the lack of
environmentally sound land use, accentuated by the recent drought and by
population growth; and (ix) limited infrastructure, particularly in the
rainfed areas.
1.07      The Province of Southern Kordofan lies in Sudan's savannah belt.
Climatic conditions are adequate for rainfed agriculture but its potential
remains largely unrealized. The Provincial agricultural economy is
constrained by the issues cited in para. 1.06, but particularly by the weak
agricultural services; poor water and transport infrastructure; lack of
farm inputs; and limited investment. The Rainfed Sector Strategy Study
(para. 1.04) recommended that this area be assisted through an agricultural
development project.
C. Experience with Past Lending and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.08      Previous Bank lending to Sudan's agricultural sector gave
priority to the development of irrigated agriculture.
IDA Lending to Sudan's Agriculture 1975-1986
Projects in Irrigated Areas              Projects in Rainfed Areas
Irrigation                 8             Mechanized Farming          3
Smallholder Development   5              Research                    1
Rehabilitation             2             Livestock Marketing         2
Research and Extension    1              Agricultural Development  1
Total                     16                                         7
333=



- 3 -
These projects have helped reverse the decline in production in their
respective project areas. Before the effects of the recent drought, crop
yields and total production had already recovered to the 1970 levels. The
livestock marketing improvements helped boost exports and, before the
drought related embargo, livestock had become the second largest net earner
of foreign exchange.
1.09      While the Bank intends to continue supporting the irrigation
subsector, it also aims to assist the Government in its efforts to realize
the potential of the rainfed areas, psrticularly in the savannah belt
(para. 1.03). As part of this effort the GOS, with IDA support, launched
two projects: the Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP)
(Cr. 834-SU); and the Western Savannah Project (WSP I) (Cr. 1181-SU). The
main objective of WSARP is to develop technology to increase production and
to support soil conservation in the traditional farming sector. Research
programs have been implemented at El Obeid and Kadugli research stations in
Northern and Southern Kordofan, respectively, and two stations in Darfur
are scheduled to begin in 1988. During the first phase of the WSP the main
objective was to increase agricultural production through increased water
supply, farm inputs and application of improved technology. 'The second
phase, (WSP II, Cr. 1640-SU) will continue these activities and, by the
introduction of agricultural extension, road development, tractor hiring
and livestock health services, will expand the ievelopment program
initiated during the first phase.
1.10      Relevant lessons learned from WSP I (PCR dated May 6, 1987) and
from the on-going WSARP and WSP-II projects relate to: (i) the
establishment of an extension service, the appropriate methodology for
disseminating messages and the relevant adoption rate; (ii) the effect of
seed dressing, fertilizer application, crop rotation, improved seeds and
mechanization on millet and sorghum yields (para 2.07); (iii) the operation
and related benefits from a veterinary program for disease control,
particularly rinderpest (para 2.08); (iv) the ability of the Provincial
offices of the National Water Corporation (NWC) to efficiently implement a
water rehabilitation program; (iv) successful cost recovery systems for
water, veterinary drugs and farm inputs; (v) a need for clear delineation
of responsibilities between the Project Implementing Agencies and the
Regional Government; (vi) the need to establish systematic high-level
communications between the Regional Government and Project Management; and
(vii) a guide for estimating Project costs and benefits.
1.11      In addition to the projects cited in para. 1.09 the Bank assisted
the GOS through a Special Project Preparation Facility to define a
development strategy and investment program for the rainfed sector (para.
1.04). The proposed Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
(SKADP) is part of this strategy with the objective to support development
of smallholder agriculture in Southern Kordofan (para. 1.07). It would
follow upon and build on the experience of the WSP I project in the
adjacent Southern Kordofan region (para. 1.09), particularly with respect
to strengthening local development institutions, improving rural
infrastructure, and introducing appropriate agricultural technology. Thus
the Bank has accumulated substantial experience in agricultural development
and technology generation applicable to rainfed areas in Sudan. These
would be further tested and refined in the proposed project and, if
successful, the strategy could be replicated in other rainfed areas of
Sudan and of the Sahelian zones of Africa.



- 4 -
D. Protect Formulation
1.12      The proposed Project is based on the experience from a series of
interventions in Southern Kordofan and other rainfed areas: (i) During the
late 70's, several piiot scale projects investigated the potential for crop
production iacreases on the clay soils (GTZ project 1979-85) and for
introducing animal drawn implements on the lighter soils (Nuba Mountains
Rural Development Project (NMRDP) - EEC, 1979 and ongoing); (ii) the WSP I
(para. 1.10); and (iii) the WSARP (para. 1.09). Guided by the
recommendations of the Rainfed Sector Study (para. 1.04) and from earlier
land use surveys and development plans, the GOS contracted with the
Australian Agricultural Consultancy and Management Company and Newtech
Industrial and Engineering Group to prepare an agricultural development
project for Southern Kordofan. On the basis of their reportl/the GOS
requested IDA's assistance in funding this project.
1.13      The Project was appraised by IDA during the first half of 1987.
It has been designed with due consideration to: (i) the rainfed sector
strategy (para. 1.04); and (li) lessons learned from earlier projects
(para. 1.10). The Project forms part of the Bank's core program for
assistance to Sudan with emphasis on agricultural institutional
strengthening, infrastructure development and application of proven
technologies to increase production and support natural resource
conservation. To help attain long-term sustainability, project activities
would be implemented by existing provincial institutions with emphasis on
commercial operations and cost rec-overy where appropriate. In view of the
need to strengthen the implementinig agencies, project activities would be
phased accordingly.
I/  AACM and Newtech, IEG Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development
Project Preparation Report, August 1986.



II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Geography and Demographics
2.01      The project area corresponds to the Southern Kordofan Province
boundaries (IBRD Map 20629). This would facilitate implementation, for
which Provincial authorities would be largely responsible. Also, the
Province has a generally uniform climate with few substantial
socio-economic variations,which can be easily accommodated in the basic
project design. The Province is situated between latitudes 9° and 3° N and
27° and 32° E and covers about 138,000 km2 divided into five districts,
Its population is about 1.4 million persons (1983 census) with an annual
growth rate of 3.1 percent. Although distinctions have blurred, it is
estimated that about 65% of the people are settled rural dwellers, 23%
nomads, and 12% urban dwellers. Practically all rural residents are
farmers or livestock owners.
B. Climate and Natural Resources
2.02      Average maximum temperatures vary between 300C and 350C.  Annual
rainfall varies from 400 mm in the north to 850 mm in the south. Near
average, well distributed rainfall in 1985 ended several years of below
average rainfall culminating in the 1984 drought. Water resources include
permanent and seasonal pools and streams. About 250 surface water storage
earth tanks (haffirs) and dams have been constructed, with a total capacity
of 16.3 million m3. However, about 50% of these need either desilting or
reconstruction. The GOS has also constructed about 250 deep boreholes
supplying 150 wateryards, each equipped with pumps, engines, tanks and
troughs. Almost all wateryards need rehabilitation. About 586 shallow
boreholes were recently equipped by UNICEF with hand pumps to exploit
shallow aquifers and most are working satisfactorily. There are also 200
GOS-owned open wells and a large but undetermined number of private open
wells. Soils consist of shallow gravels and vertisols; qoz sands and silt
alluvial-; and the non-cracking clays of the piqdmonts and plateaus.
Farming is generally confined to the vertisols, which are fertile but
inherently difficult to cultivate without mechanical equipment, and to the
qoz sands, which are infertile but easy to cultivate.
C. Infrastructure
2.03      Infrastructure is poorly developed.  Rudimentary social services
are limited to major urban centers and only the Provincial capital,
Kadugli, is connected to the telephone network. The transportation network
is inadequate, thus inhibiting marketing of farm inputs and output, and
rendering difficult the provision of services. Most roads on heavy clay
soils are impassable in the rainy season while those on sands are difficult
in the dry season. A spur of the Khartoum - Nyala railway provides
occasional service to the north and west of the Province. There are no
scheduled air services, but sti ps for light planes exist at Kadugli,
Dilling, Habila and Muglad. Several donor supported projects have
shortwave radios reaching Khartoum.



- 6 -
D. Land Tenure and Farming Systems
2.04      With few exceptions, all rural land is owned by the GOS.
Traditional rights of access and land use are specific to local
communities and distinguish between the rights to cultivate, graze and
access. Individual rights within .he tribal and village jurisdictions are
acquired through the cultivationl of virgin land and cannot be lost, even if
the land is not utilized continuously. Large tracts of land in demarcated
schemes for mechanized farming are leased by the GOS to individuals through
the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC). Undemarcated mechanized schemes
established without Central Government authority, are often recognized and
taxed by local authorities although no leases are granted. Only farms in
MFC schemes can be used as collateral for loans.
2.05      In most of Southern Kordofan smallloldings predominate.  The
typical small farm consists of a household plot surrounding the house, a
near field (1-2 kms from the house) and a far field 3 km or more on the
vertisols. The total holding is about 6 ha, and the family size is
estimated at 5-6 persons. The household plot is used to grow early
varieties of sorghum, maize, vegetables and fruit. The other fields are
used to grow sorghum, cotton, sesame and occasionally cowpeas, with about
half of the area under fallow. The only cash inputs are for hand tools and
hired labor. NMAC has set up modernized smallholder schemes in parts of
Southern Kordofan. The typical household in the NMAC schemes cultivates
about 14 ha (34 fd) under a sorghum-cotton rotation, with the tractor hire
services being made available for the primary cultivation. In the west,
millet and groundnuts are the main crops on the qoz sands, but the
agricultural system is often combined with the tending of migratory herds
of livestock by some of the family members. In the east, horticulture is
important in river beds, and the vegetable and orchard crops are irrigated
from shallow open wells during the dry season. An MFC scheme is demarcated
in Habila, in the northeast part of the province.
E. Agricultural Production
2.06      Crop yields, generally low, vary according to rainfall received.
Estimated yields and production (Table 1) are summarized below:
Southern Kordofan: Average Production
and Yield of Major Crops a/
Average Production ('000 tons)    Average Yield (kg/ha)
1975/80  1981/85  % Change    1975/80  1981/85  % Change
Sorghum              173       178        2.9        719       555      (22.8)
Millet                 8         7      (12.5)       464       *09      (11.9)
Seed Cotton            6         2      (66.7)       321       214      (33.3)
Sesame                12        14       16.7        305       243      (20.3)
Groundnut (in shell) 34          8      (76.5)       774       490      (36.7)
a/   Includes traditional and mechanized farming.  The latter is estimated
to account for 30% of sorghum and 17% of sesame production.



- 7 -
Yields have declined significantly in recent years, partly because of the
recent drought. Other contributing factors include population growth
resulting in shorter fallow periods, lack of extension services and
improved inputs, improper cultural practices, particularly mono-cropping,
and scarcity of mechanized services.
2.07      Agricultural research efforts in Western Sudan through the WSAPP
have generated several technical innovations applicable to Southern
Kordofan. Many of these have been tested under the WSP and include
improved cultural techniques, the use of seed dressing and improved seed,
new crop varieties, improved husbandry practices, animal drawn implements,
phosphatic fertilizers on qoz soils, legumes for improving fallows and
planted trees and shrubs. However, there is limited dissemination of these
technologies because of the near absence of extension services in rainfed
areas.
2.08      Livestock is important in the area with an estimated 2.0 million
cattle, 1.0 million sheep, 0.9 million goats and 0.2 million camels and
equines. Owners are migratory and sedentary pastoralists auid settled
cultivators. Calving rates are about 40-50%, calf mortalities about
10-15%, and age of males at marketing about 3-4 years. Annual off take is
estimated at 6-8% for cattle and at 25% for sheep and goats. Milk
production is substantial but not quantified. Important diseases affecting
livestock production in the area are rinderpest, contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia (CBPP) and trypanosomiasis. Preliminary results of the
WSP-I vaccination and veterinary drug campaign indicated significant gains
in calving and in reduced calf and cattle mortality.
F. Socio-Economic ZIonditions
2.09      Annual per capita income in the traditional smallholder household
varies from LSdl5O to LSd290, but within NMAC's modernized farming schemes
(para. 2.05), where lprger areas can be cultivated, it is about LSd47O.
Per capita annual income among nomadic pastoralists is estimated to be in
the range of LSd140 to LSd700. National per capital income is estimated to
be LSd825. Labor intensive tasks such as weeding and sesame harvesting are
often done on a communal basis. Livestock are normally sold during the
cropping season to cover production costs.
2.10      Many families practice both sedentary and nomadic livestock
management. Although cattle ownership remains most important to nomads,
the recent drought has made cropping and permanent settlement more
acceptable. Pressure on grazing land is increasing, partly due to
declining productivity of the range, but also due to migration as
successively poor seasons forced many families from Northern Kordofan and
Darfur into less affected areas in Southern Kordofan.



-8-
G. Institutional Setting and Agricultural. Services
2.11      The present Government organization in Sudan is
transitional,pending the adoption of a permanent constitution. A
constitutional conference has been announced, although no date has been
set, to determine the structure of Central and Regional authorities and
their relationships, powers and responsibilities.
2.12      Kordofan is one of five regions in Northern Sudan.  It is
administered by a Governor, assisted by an Administrative Council whose
membership includes representatives of Regional Ministries, the Armed
Forces and Government departments. The Kordofan Region is administratively
divided into two provinces, Northern Pnd Southern Kordofan. The Provincial
administration is headed by a Commissioner representing the Governor, and
all Regional Ministries have representation in Southern Kordofan. Most
Regional M'nistries are organized on a provincial basis i.e. districts
report to the Region through Provincial authorities, but a few report
directly to Regional headquarters.l/
2.13      Responsibility for agricultural services in the Province rests
with Central and Regional Government agencies and parastatals such as NMAC
and the NWC. Services are available to only part of the Province because
of inefficient management svstems, shortages of specialized staff,
budgetary allocations which cover little beyond salaries, serious shortage
of transport means, weak inter-agency coordination and poor
infrastructure. Although many of the staff are technically competent, the
lack of proper management systems and of financial and physical resources
adversely affect their performance. Banks exist only in Kadugli, Dilling
and Babanusa but do not serve smallholder farmers. Private sector
activities, other than farming, are limited to small-scale commerce and
repair shops, and marketing of relatively small quantities of agricultural
goods. Practically all smallholder farmers in Southern Kordofan, about
600,000, are members of the Nuba Mountains Farmers Union (NMFU) which has
recently become active in promoting farmers' interests to the Government,
NMAC and NWC, and has shown great interest in the realization of this
Project.
1/   Description of the Implementing Agencies and of the Institutional
Framework in the Province provided in the Technical Volume, Araex 1.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Relation to Sector Strategy
3.01      The proposed Project is consistent with the Bank and GOS strategy
for development of the rainfed areas (para. 1.04). The Project would seek
to provide a sound institutional framework and, through selected direct
interventions, to assist smallholder farmers and livestock owners in
Southern Kordofan to improve their standard of living through: (i)
improved agricultural services by strengthening selected agricultural
institutions in the Project area; (ii) increased availability of farm
inputs; (iii) improved water supply and road infrastructure; and (iv)
improved crop,production technology. Cost recovery systems would be
established for appropriate services and inputs, and measures would be
taken to improve environmental protection.
B. Project omponents
3.02      The proposed project would comprise the following components:l/
A.   Agricultural Services (US$3.7 million)
(i)   Extension Service (US$2.8 million)
(ii) Plant Protection (US$0.9 million)
B.   Farm Inputs (US$2.5 million)
(i)   Improved Seeds (US$1.8 million)
(ii) Horticultural Seedlings (US$0.7 million)
C.   Livestock Health (US$4.5 million)
D.   Water Supply (US$13.4 million)
E.   Agricultural Machinery (US$4.6 million)
(i)   Credit Program (US$2.8 million)
(ii) Agricultural Machinery Rehabilitation and Repair and
Maintenance Facilities (US$1.8 million)
F.   Road Infrastructure (US$5.0 million)    -
G.   Project Management, Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
(US$6.1 million)2/
1/ Estimated component costs, including contingencies, are shown in
parentheses.
2/ Part of the Technical Assistance, training and studies are included in
the cost of individual components.



- 10 -
C. Project Description
3.03      Agricultural Extension (US$2.8 million).3/  A P.ovincial
Extension Service would be re-established under this Project.4/ Its main
objective would be to propagate improved cultilation practiceis developed by
the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) and WSARP. These practices
have been tested under the WSP I, where they resulted in significant yield
increases.  Four main extens.on units and 14 sub-units would be gradually
established according to the timetable below:
Location and Timetable for Establishment
of Extension Units and Sub-Units
Main Units                          S  u  b   U  n  i  t s
Yr I    Yr 2         Yr 3      Yr 4       Yr 5      Yr 6  Total
Kadugli          -    Urm Dorein    El Kweik  Abu Sunun  Heiban       -      4
Dillitng        -    Wali           Dalami    Debeibat   Kurtala    -        4
Abu Gubeiha      -    Umberembita  Kalogi    Abbasia         -        -      3
Rigl el Fula    -    El Muglad    Lagawa    Babanusa         -        -      3
14
Sub-unit locations have been selected (IBRD map 20630) according to the
distribution of the farming population, the transportation network,
available facilities and ease of staff recruitment.
3.04      At full development each main unit would be staffed by about 15
persons and each sub-unit by 5 persons. About 20 local extensionists would
be assigned to each sub-unit. Staffing the extension service would be
facilitated, especially in the early years, by recruiting field staff of
NMAC. Many are trained extensionists or have relevant practical
3/ Detailed description of this component is presented in the Technical
Volume, Annex 2.
4/ A Provincial Extension Service functioned relatively efficiently in
parts of Southern Kordofan until the mid-sixties. Subsequently, its
activities practically ceased due to lack of funds and most of the
trained staff transferred to NMAC, to NGOs and to various projects in
the Province and elsewhere.



- 11 -
experience.5/ The NMAC Board of Directors has formally recommended this
arrangement, as well as the transfer of field facilities to the Extension
Service, and many NMAC field staff have expressed interest in joining the
Extension Service.
3.05      The Extension Service would be managed by the Provincial Director
based in Kadugli. To avoid implementation delays, the Director of the
Provincial Extension Service should be in post not later than April 15,
1988 (para 7.01). The Kadugli Unit would set policies for the service,
review and approve the work program of the other main extension units,
monitor and evaluate their activities and provide logistical and technical
support. It would also coordinate with the National Extension Service, the
Research services and with other extension services in the Province (para.
3.08). The main units 4ould have similar functions with their respective
sub-units on work programs, support, and monitoring and evaluation. The
sub-units would constitute the true meshing points of extension services
with the farming communities. They would be closely supervised by the main
units, to ensure the appropriateness of material conveyed to farmers and to
monitor farmers' receptivity. An average of 20 local extensionists would
be assigned to each sub-unit, serving an area of about 20-50 km radius,
accessible within a day by equine, bicycle or motorcycle. Male and female
local extensionists, recruited mainly in Southern Kordofan, would be
located in villages to gradually establish and maintain frequent contact
with about 200 farm households each. Thus by Project Year (PY) 6 about
60,000 farming households would have been reached by the Extension. Each
local extensionist wou]d work closely with 3-5 farmer cooperators, who,
under the direction of the local extensionists, would apply improved
practices in their fields, i.e. in demonstration plots. Farm inputs
provided by the Extension Service, i.e. fertilizer or improved seeds, for
use in demonstration plots would be sold to the farmers at market prices.
The local extensionists would disseminate the improved practices by
organizing village meetings and field days at the demonstration plots.
Support in the form of supplies, visual aids and logistics would be
provided by the sub-units.
3.06      Extension packages would include multiple practices aimed at
increasing the yields of crops and in propagating the cultivation of fruits
and vegetables. Initially, efforts would be concentrated on extending the
use of seed dressing, improved seeds, timeliness of planting and weeding,
crop density/geometry, and crop rotation. Additional messages would be
extended as developed by the research stations at Kadugli and El Obeid.
The development of the Provincial Extension Service and its impact on
production is discussed in paras. 5.04-5.05.
3.07      Linkages between the Provincial extension and the research
stations at El Obeid and Kadugli would be developed under the project
through seminars, joint training activities, and systematic contacts.
5/ Details on staff requirements, timing and possible sources for
recruitment provided in the Technical Volume, Annex 2.



- 12 -
Also, links to the National Extension Administration (NEA) would be
initiated through the project by submitting annual work plans and relevant
reports to the NEA. The Director of the Provincial Extension would
communicate regularly with the NEA to discuss extension policy and relevant
issues.
3.08      Due to the weakness of the Provincial Extension Service, several
government, parastatal and project entities have created their own
extension services in Southern Kordofan. This has increased the risk of
giving unsuitable and contradictory advice to farmers. One of the tasks of
the Provincial Extension Service would be to coordinate with other
services to ensure that the messages and methods of extension are
consistent with research findings and NEA policy. A study under the
project (In PY 3) would prepare for the integration of all extension
services under the Provincial Extension Service, once the latter is
sufficiently strengthened, to successfully undertake this responsibility.
Funds would be provided for construction, transport means, training and
equipment.
3.09      Plant Protection (US$0.9 million).  Crops in the field or in
storage in the Province are subject to serious losses from pests.
Protection is provided by the Plant Protection Directorate (PPD) based in
Kadugli, with seven outlying stations. Its main fucttons are: (i) to
combat national pests, i.e. birds, rodents, locusts and other insects; and
(ii) at farmers' request to combat pests threatening crops in the fields or
in storage. The PPD is severely constrained by lack of pesticides and
transport equipment and poor communication facilities between headquarters
and out-stations. These have been caused by insufficient GOS budgetary
allocations and inadequate revenues from services provided to farmers.
Although the latter are charged for services provided, charges are
estimated to cover only about 40% of the cost. The credit would provide
funds for pesticides, transport equipment, rehabilitation of storage
facilities, radios, camping equipment, sprayers and training. IDA would be
consulted before any pesticide purchases to guard against adverse impact cn
the environment (para 7.01). The sprayers would be used by PPD staff or
rented to farmers. PPD staff would be trained in integrated pest
management and safe use of pe3ticides. With PMU assistance the PPD would
gradually raise charges to cover all relevant costs by PY 3. The PPD would
coordinate with the Extension Service, so that the latter would educate
farmers, including women tending to household gardens, on PPD services and
on self-help methods to avoid crop losses due to pests. The Extension
Service would also pass on information to the PPD on relevant problems
faced by the farmers.
3.10      Improved Seed Production (US$1.8 million).  Improved seed is
rarely available in the Province, evcn though many farmers demand it and
occasionally manage to buy limited quantities from the National Seed
Administration (NSA) farm in Sennar, Central Region. Trials by the NMRDP
with improved seed varieties available in Sudan have resulted in yield
increases of 20-50% for groundnuts, millet and sesame and over 100% for
sorghum, when coupled with improved practices. Improved seed production in
the Province would be supported through the proposed Project in cooperation
with the NSA and the NMRDP. The NSA is planning to establish a large
improved seed production project in Southern Kordofan in the early 1990s to
meet the needs of Kordofan and Darfur regions. The component under this



- 13 -
Project would act as a pilot for the future NSA operation.  It is estimated
that about 17 of the cropped area in PY 6 would be planted with improved
seeds produced under the Project. Seed would be produced by farmers
recruited by the XMRDP from among those active in the NMRDP development
centers. The NMFU could also identify contract growers from its members.
Foundation seed would be purchased from the NSA seed farm in Sennar and the
NSA has &greed to post two officers in Kadugli and Dilling to organize and
supervise the production and inspect the seed prior to certification. Seed
produced by the farmers would be bought by the NMRDP, at a premium (at
least 125X of the market price of ordinary seed), processed by the NMRDP
and sold at cost to farmers and intermediaries including private traders,
NGOs, the extension service, the NMRDP and the NMFU. A similar
distribution system would be used for seed dressing. Since the primary
objective would be to introduce improvftd seeds and seed dressing to as many
farmers as possible, all the above cha;inels would be Initially employed.
However, the WSP-I project has demonst-rated that demand for improved inputs
rises quickly and private traders are willing to undertake distribution,
especially of seeds and seed dressing which would be avallable locally at
relatively low unit cost. The NMRDP would be largely responsible for
organizing production and for processing and marketing, and the NSA,
through its officer in Kadugli, would have overall implementation
responsibility in coordination with the PMU. In t'se post-project period
NSA would assume complete responsibility to continue the operation and
integrate it whith its planned seed production activities cited above.
3.11      Small quantities of sorghum, sesame, millet and groundnuts
certified seed would be produced in PY 2. Cowpeas, a relatively new crop
in the Province, would have lower priority and its production would not
start until PY 4. It is estimated that by PY 6 improved seed production
would have reached about 235 T of sorghum, 68 T of millet, 140 T of sesame,
672 T of groundnuts in shell, and 12 T of cowpeas. The actual production
will depend mainly on demand and on the ability of the NMRDP and of the
SKADP to recruit contract farmers and to organize seed distribution. The
credit would provide funds for seed processing and packaging equipment,
houses and vehicles for NSA staff, for the purchase of foundation seed and
for incremental certified seed. 6/ Credit funds would be made available
to purchase all foundation and certified seed In PYI. It is expected that
in subsequent years these would be funded through cost recovery.
3.12      Horticultural Seedling Production (US$0.7 million).  Three
existing horticultural nurseries - in Kadugli, Umm Berembeita and Abu
Gubeiha -- would be assisted in expanding their production of fruit tree
seedlings for sale to farmers, particularly in the eastern part of the
Province, where fruit production is established. Still, demand is only
partially satisfied at present and market opportunities will increase once
the road linking the Eastern district to El Obeid, Kosti and Khartoum is
completed in 1988.  By PY 6 production is expected to reach 7,000 mango,
5,400 guava, 5,300 banana and 17,000 citrus7/ seedlings. Seedlings would
be sold at cost to merchants or directly to farmers wishing to rehabilitate
or expand their orchards or start new ones.  Also, there is great demand in
the area for fruit trees to be planted in home gardens.8/  The Chief of
the Horticultural Unit in Kadugli would act as Provincls1 Coordinator for
this component.
6/ Technical Volume, Annex 3.
7/ Includes orange, mandarin, grapefruit and tangerine.
8/ Technical Volume, Annex 9.



- 14 -
3.13      Livestock Health (US$4.5 million).  The Project would strengthen
the capability of veterinary services in the Province to control major
epidemic livestock diseases. Vehicles, field veterinary equipment, drugs
and vaccines would be provided to the Veterinary Services Administration
(VSA) in Southern Kordofan. As is the current practice, drugs and vaccines
would be sold at cost. bixty nomadic pastoralists selected from throughout
the project area would be trained to serve as veterinary scouts. They
would assist the VSA in the identification and diagnosis of livestock
diseases among the nomadic herds beyond the reach of the conventional
services (IBRD Map 20633). Such assistance would permit the Southern
Kordofan VSA to expand the coverage of its vaccination program and
strengthen its capacity to control disease outbreaks. The success of this
component depends, in part, on the support provided to the VSA by the
Veterinary Laboratories in El Obeid and Shoba. The former conducts
epidemiological investigation and offers diagnostic services to VSA field
staff, and the latter is responsible for vaccine production. The project
would support the El Obeid laboratory by providing lab equipment and
training and the Shoba laboratory with vaccine bottles and bottle printing
equipment. The Chief Officer of the VSA Unit in Kadugli would act as the
Provincial Coordinator for this component.9/
3.14      Wateryard and Haffir Rehabilitation (US$13.4 million).  Water
yields would be improved by cleaning bores at 100 wateryards, (IBRD Map
20631), re-drilling 33 bores and overhauling equipment. Most of the work
would be performed by the NWC but about 40% of the re-drilling would be on
contract. In the clay areas, 10 haffirs would be rehabilitated by removing
accumulated silt with heavy equipment which has been donated by UNICEF to
NWC and is already in the Province. However, the emphasis would be on the
rehabilitation of small haffirs which would provide a more sustainable
source of water particularly where ground water does not exist. With the
cooperation of local communities, under NW. supervision, 80 smaller haffirs
would be rehabilitated with animal drawn equipment and manual labor. Thus,
local communities would be educated and encouraged to maintain haffirs
instead of relying entirely on NWC. With respect to wateryards a
systematic maintenance program, higher water charges and improved revenue
collection (para. 5.15) would be established to sustain operations after
the project period. The credit would finance the provision of vehicles,
spares, materials, camping equipment, survey equipment, transceivers,
incremental operating expenses, training (paras. 3.20 and 3.21) and
technical assistance (para. 3.23)10/
9/ Technical Volume, Annex 4.
10/ Technical Volume, Annex 5.



- 15 -
3.15      Agricultural Machinery (US$4.6 million).  Hard clay soils
predominate in large areas of Southern Kordofan (para. 2.02). The area
which a farmer can cultivate with traditional methods is only about 1/3 of
that which can be cultivated mechanically. During the past 15 years
tractor services have been made available to smallholder farmers by the
Nuba Mountains Agricultural Corporation (NMAC), (IBRD Map 20632), whose
main objective is to promote cotton production. NMAC services have been
inefficient because of weak management, overstaffing, recurring financial
deficits and scarcity of spare parts. Given the necessity of mechanized
farming on the hard clay soils, the SKADP would support the provision of
agricultural machinery services through two channels: (i) a line of credit
managed by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) to enable farmers to
purchase machinery (para. 3.16; and (i') the Agricultural Machinery
Services (AMS) which would be re-organi'ed and supported to rehabilitate
its equipment and repair facilities (para. 3.17).
3.16      A line of credit would be provided to the ABS (US$2.8 million) to
be onlent to farmers in Southern Kordofan to purchase farm machinery. The
ABS would manage this line of credit mainly through its branches in Dilling
and Kadugli.'1/ Terms and conditions are described in para. 5.22). Based
on the findings of a demand study undertaken in early 1987, it is expected
that during the project period 85 tractors and plowing implements and 25
trailers would be provided on credit to individual farmers or groups of
farmers for their own use and for hire. The ABS would monitor that this
equipment is retained in the Project area at least through the repayment
period of the ABS loan.
3.17      Agricultural Machinery Services (US$1.8 million).  The
Agricultural Machinery Services (AMS) has been separated from the NMAC, and
established as a separate legal entity to provide agricultural machinery
hiring, and repair and maintenance services for its own fleet and for
private tractors and equipment. All services would be made available at
charges covering costs at replacement. The machinery services would be
provided primarily to farmers participating in the existing NMAC schemes
without any restrictions on crops to be planted. AMS operations would be
reviewed in PY3 through a study to be launched by the PMU, with a view to
privatizing the AMS, possibly through a management contract. The credit
would provide US$1.8 million for the rehabilitation and expansion of
workshops, reconditioning of equipment, spare parts, training and technical
assistance in repair shop management. A study would be funded under the
PPF to prepare the appropriate organizational structure and management
systems for the AMS, particularly with respect to operations, finance and
inventories.
3.18      Generally, experience with public tractor hiring schemes has not
been encouraging. However, limited support to the AMS would be appropriate
under the circumstances in Southern Kordofan to achieve specific
objectives. These are: (i) to prevent a rapid decrease in crop
production, which would result from the further deterioration of existing
machinery, and until sufficient private tractors start operating (para.
3.17); (ii) to support private mechanized services by using the AMS to
train mechanics and tractor drivers, some of whom would later work in the
private sector; (iii) to provide repair and maintenance facilities for
private tractors; and (iv) to privatize the AMS. Since the AMS already has
11/ The Kadugli branch is scheduled to be established with KFW financing
during 1988.



- 16 -
workshops and several experlenced mechanics, it would be more cost
effective to utilize them in the short term as development of private
services would, in Southern Kordofan, be a longer term proposition.
3.19      Road Infrastructure (US$5.0 million).  The project would provide
for the improvement of selected feeder roads to a standard to allow usage
in all weather conditions. This would require improving passage and
construction of crossings over the major drainage channels. Roads have
been selected because of their importance to agricultural development and
in consideration of the on-going USAID funded KORAG feeder road project.
Thus while the KORAG program is concentrated mostly in the eastern part of
the Province, the SKADP program would be in the central part of the
Province. A description of the program and relevant sites are summarized
in Table 2. A road maintenance unit would be established in the Regional
Public Works Department within PYI which would gradually develop the
capability to maintain the feeder roads and also the existing 1,000 km of
access roads. (para 7.01). The project would provide machinery and
equipment, incremental operating costs and funds for training in road
maintenance and for design and engineering studies.
3.20      Training (US$1.2 million).  Technical and managerial training
provided to staff at different levels would be a key element in the
institutional strengthening of the implementing agencies in the project
area.  Under the water supply component, 50 NWC workshop mechanics would
receive regular training on repair of wateryard equipment. About 190 NWC
pump operators would likewise receive instruction on the proper operation
and maintenance of pumps and engines. Mechanics and pump operators would
be trained in the Province by senior NWC staff. In addition, the credit
would fund management development workshops to be organized with the PMU
for about 30 higher level NWC staff in Southern Kordofan. At the AMS,
75 drivers would participate in short annual courses on tractor operation
and routine maintenance and 30 workshop mechanics in tractor repair. In
agricultural extension 2 senior officers would receive training overseas; 4
information technicians would undergo training in the use of mass
communications equipment; and systematic training in extension methods
would be provided locally to 57 extension officers and to local
extensionists estimated to increase from 50 in PY 1 to 300 in PY 6.
Special seminars and workshops would be offered annually to introduce
improved technologies and extension messages to staff. To enhance the
diagnostic capability of the Regional Veterinary Research Laboratory in El
Obeid, overseas training would be provided to one epidemiologist and 2 lab
technicians and local training to 60 veterinary scouts. Under the roads
and tracks improvement component, training would be provided in Khartoum by
the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation on road maintenance procedures and
on the operation of road maintenance equipment to staff of the Regional
Road Maintenance Unit. About 10 staff members of the Plant Protection
Directorate in Southern Kordofan would receive training in Khartoum on safe
and environmentally sound use of pesticides and on integrated pest
management. (The training program is summarized in Table 3).
3.21      The Project Management Unit (PMU) (para. 4.02) would arrange
local and overseas training for staff with common training requirements.
Local training would be organized for drivers, mechanics, storekeepers,
typists, computer operators and bookkeepers. A special fund would be



- 17 -
earmarked for periodic management development workshops for officers of
implementing agencies in Southern Kordofan. Overseas training funded by
the project would consist of (a) short term (2-8 weeks) management courses;
(b) study or observation tours (1-2 months); and (c) a limited number of
6-month courses and graduate studies. The overseas training opportunitiee
would help upgrade the skills and managerial capabilities of senior staff
of the implementing agencies in Southern Kordofan (Table 3). Such
opportunities would also attract experienced and qualified individuals to
relocate to and work in the project area, a place considered to be a
hardship post.12/ ILI view of the long lead time required to launch
training activities, the PMU would prepare the training program for PY 1
not later than April 15, 1988 (para 7.01).
3.22      Studies (US$0.3 million) to support Project implementation would
include:  a land use plan based on environmental and economic criteria
(para. 3.37); studies on the reorganization and on the future status of the
AMS (para. 3.17); and development of a comprehensive extension package and
integration of extension services in the Province (para. 3.08) .r3/  Funds
would be provided for a mid-term review of project performance C ara.
4.10).
3.23      Technical Assistance (US$2.4 million).  Funding would be provided
for an estimated 19 manyears of local and expatriate technical assistance
(Table 4). Under the water supply component, a Systems Operations Engineer
and a Field Operations Engineer would each be employed for a period of two
years in the initial period of project implementation. The AMS would be
assisted during the first two years of the project bv a person experienced
in managing repair facilities. A Financial Controller would be employed at
the PMU for the project period. (Condition of credit effectiveness- para
7.01). A General Agriculturist would be hired for two years to assist in
the establishment of the Extension Service and to establish and manage the
Monitoring and Evaluation Department of the PMU. He would perform the
function of the Deputy Director of the Department until a suitable
candidate could be trained by him to assume the post. A Systems Specialist
would also work in the Monitoring and Evaluation Department for one year
and subsequently on short-term consultancies to prepare monitoring systems
for the PMU and the implementing agencies.
3.24      Shorter term technical assistance would include the services of a
management consultant/training officer to organize and coordinate training
and management development activities under the project and to monitor the
institutional development of the implementing agencies with respect to
management, accounting systems, environmental planning and economics.
Funds have also been provided for short term assignments, totalling 24
manmonths, which would be defined as the needs are identified in the course
of project implementation.
12/ More information on Training and Studies provided in the Technical
Volume, Annex 8.
13/ Ibid.



- 18 -
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.25               Project costs are estinated atLS179.2 million (U$39.8
million), of which about L.SdI30.2 mill ion  OJ 28.9 millio n) o r 73X
represent foreign exchange equivalent.  The project is exeap t from inport
dities and taxes, but project costs contain US$2.0 million in taxes, mainly
on fuel expenditures.  Project costs by conponent are sunmarized belaw, and
a summary account by project conponent is presented in Table 5.
SUDll
SOUTH KORDOFAN AGRICULtURal DEVELOPMENT PROOECT
PRO4tCl COSt SUNMARI
LSd  000)                        fUSs '0001                        S Total
, . . . .. . . . .. . .    . .   .....-.-.-...-----.----.------.......nEs
Local    Foreign    total         Local   foraign   Total       Exchange    Ctots
Sitg$SSS  StXlttSS . SS.t*        lvS:ttS* 10,3S:Xt *1S1*9  : S3 s    t2SS:z2   2*5*22
A. hAtER SUPPlY                                           'O, 644 3  37, 148. 1  47, 792.4   2. 365. 4  8. 255. 1 10, 620. 5        78        33
8. TGQICUttURAL MACHINERY
t. AGRICUttURAL tACNINERY SERVICES                      1.514 9   5, 598 4   7, 173.4       350.0  1,244.1 t .S94.1             73         5
2. AS8  tRACTOR CREDIT                                    322.5   t. 029.5  1  352. 0        71, 7  2 45t 0  2.522.7            97          S
Sub-Total AGRICUttURAt AACHINERY                           1, 897.4  16, 627.9   8, 525.4      421.    3, 695. I  4. 116.?          90        13
C. AGRICULTURE SERVICES
. ........  ...
t  IGRICULtURAL EXTENSION                              3.458. 1   6.879. 2  10. 337 2       768.5  1,528. 7  2,297.2            67         7
2. PLANT PROtECTION                                       665.9   2,622.0   3,287.9         148.0    582.7      730.6           8O         2
. . . ..... . ....... . .... .....  ........ ......... . .......  ....... ..  .... ...
Sub-total AGRItULtURE SERVICES                             4,124.0   9,501.1  13.625.t         916.4  2,111.4  3,027.8              70         9
0. AGRICULTURAL INPUtS
i. IMPROVED SEED PRODUCTION                            2,732.3   2.082.0   4.8t4.3         607 2    462.7   1,069.8             43         3
2. HORtiCtltURE                                           948.6   1,558. 2   2. 506. 8      210.8    346.3    557. 1            62         2
....... ... . .. ... ... ..... ....  -----...--    ----   ... ......  ... ....
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                              3,680 9   3. 640.2   7. 321. 1      818.0    808.9  1, 626.9            50          5
E. ANIMAl HEALTH                                           2,475.1  14. 380. 7  16, 855. 8     550.0  3, 195. 7  3. 745. 7         85         12
F. ROAD A10   TRACK IMPROVEMENT                            3.916. 1  13, 507.7  17. 423. 8     870.2  3.001.7  3.872.0             78         12
4. PROJECt RMANGEMENT UNIT                                 3.690.1  13,479.3  1?,169.3         820.0  2.995.4  3.815.4             '79        12
H. INSTITUtIONAL SUPPORT ANO MANAGEMENT TRAINING             404 8   6.02'.9   6,426.7          90.0  1,338.2   1,428.2            94          4
..... .......... ............. ... ...... ..  ..   ...... .. ... .....  ...... .... .  .. .. .. .
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        30,832.7 114. 307. 1 145. 139. 1   6.851. 7 25.401.6 32.253.3             79       100
Physi:aI ContingencIes                                    2,600.5  10. 698.5  13. 299.0       577.9  2. 377. 4  2, 955.3          80          9
Price Cont Ingenctes                                     15 ,564. 3   5. 201.3  20. 765. 8   3,458. 7  1, 155. 9  4, 614. 6       25         14i
..........  . .......    .......  ...........   ...  ......   .. ...   .. . ... .    .... .
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         48.997.5 130,206.9 179, 204. 4  10, 888. 3 28,934.9 39, 823.2             73       123
st*2t5S* 2t2t2tfSt Sf*t*stat   titt*t*t S*sS*ttt 32:2S:zt   ::tS:.ts    ntist,t
........................................... _.. _.,..   ,_ _ _  _.,. ,   _ ,._. ... .. ..  _.. .. . ... . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . .



- 19 -
Pupplemented and updated in May 1987. A 10% physical contingency has been
applied to project costs except for technical assistance and studies, for
which unallocated funds have been provided to cover unanticipated needs,
Price contingencies have been based on inflation rates for imported items
and locally procured goods as shown below:
Estimated Annual Inflation Rates
(in percent)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
International            1        1       1        3.5       3.5       3.5
Domestic                25      20       15       10         3.5        3.5
Provision has been made for a Project Preparation FaciliLy (PPF) advance of
US$1.05 million to finance the activities shown in Table 6.
3.27      Project costs would be financed by:
LSd million   US$ million   % of Total
Financing Agency                                  (equivalent)
GOS and Project Beneficiaries          20.2            4.5           11.3
IDA                                    88.6           19.7          49.5
AfDB                                   70.4           15.6          39.2
Total                                 179.2           39.8         100.0
Expenditures not funded by IDA and AfDB would be initially financed
through GOS budget allocations. Subsequently, these would diminish in
invers, proportion to revenues accruing from project beneficiaries through
cost recovery. However, the GOS and the beneficiaries would progressively
cover an increasing portion of recurrent costs (para. 5.14-5.21) in
preparation for the post-project period when external funding will have
terminated. Annual disbursements by financing agency are shown in Table 7
and a summary by disbursement category in Table 8.
3.28      The AfDB would fund 90% of the total cost of the water supply and
the agricultural services components, including 100% of the respective
foreign exchange costs.  The AfDB loan, approved by the AfDB Board of
Directors on September 18, 1987, would carry a service charge of 0.75% per
year on the amount disbursed and outstanding. Repayment would be over 50
years, including a 10 year grace period. (Fulfillment of conditions
precedent to the credit agreement between the GOS and AfDB would be a
condition for effectiveness of the IDA credit- para 7.01). The IDA credit
would finance 100% of the foreign exchange and varying percentages of local
costs for Agricultural Inputs, Livestock Health, Agricultural Machinery,
Road Infrastructure and Project Management (para. 3.32). The IDA credit
would be on standard terms and conditions, with 40 years maturity.



- 20 -
PIrocurement
3.29      GOS procurement procedures were reL -tly reviewed by the Bank and
found acceptable.14/ The review noted that Sudan is eligible for the 7.5
percent civil work preference and 15 percent domestic preference for goods
under ICB. The PMU would have the overail responsibility for coordinating
procurement among the Implementing Agencies (IAs), finalizing documents
prepared by the IAs, evaluating bids and finalizing contracts. The NWC,
the ABS, the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation and the Ministry of
Animal Resources have had experience with procurement related to the water
component, agricultural machinery, road construction and veterinary drugs
respectively, so that the PMU would need to provide only review and
coordination. Other IAs with less experience would be assisted by the PMU
in preparing bidding documents, evaluating bids and awarding contracts.
3.30      The Civil Works category consists of road rehabilitation (US$2.5
million), wateryard and haffir rehabilitation (US$4.6 million) and building
construction and other civil works (US$1.8 million). The road
rehabilitation would be implemented under several contracts and procured
through LCB (local competitive bidding) procedures. A local contsulting
firm would be appointed to supervise the construction works. Tender
documents would be the main output of design studies and would conform  to
the ICB model for works recommended by the Bank. Prequalificatior would be
required. The wateryard program would be implemented by the NWC, which has
sufficient capacity and expertise, except for part of the drilling, which,
in the interest of time, would be contracted out on LCB basis (US$0.19
million).  The NWC would also implement the rehabilitation of small
haffirs, which would be done with manual labor (US$0.54 million). Other
civil works (US$1.8 million) would be awarded through LCB satisfactory to
IDA. The individual contracts for civil works in these components would
not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB), because the
scale of the work is too small, widely dispersed and protracted over the
project implementation period to attract international interest.
Experience under WSPI indicates that ICB is not practical for the size of
contracts proposed in such remote locations. Foreign firms, however, would
be eligible to bid.
3.31      Vehicles (US$4.8 million), agricultural i-achinery (US$3.3
million), wateryard equipment (US$3.0 million), heavy equipment (US$1.0
milliotn), veterinary drugs (US$2.6 million), pesticides, fert'lizer and
seed dressing (US$0.7 million), and workshop and miscellaneous equipment
(US$2.3 million) would be procured through ICB, except for certain items
where the number of uniits would render ICB inappropriate. Some equipment,
such as small orders far spare parts, workshop items or laboratory
equipment (total of US$0.7 million), would be purchased according to the
procedures outlined below: (i) equipment valued at US $50,000 or more and
for which local agents of internationai suppliers are present in Sudan will
be procured through Limited International Tendering (LIT) to -- aggregated
sum of US $400,000; and (ii) for contracts less than $50,000 each, local
purchasing procedures would be used, to an aggregated sum of US$300,000.
At least three quotations would be required for both LIT and local
pturchasing procedures.
14/ IBRD, "Sudan: Country Procurement Assessment Report," draft dated
12/19/86.



- 21 -
3.32      Contracts for technical assistance (US$2.3 million) and studies
(US$0.3 million) would he awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines and
would be subject to prior IDA review. Overseas and local training (US$1.2
million) would be by direct placement. Bidding packages for works and goods
estimated to cost over US$ 300,000 for civil works and US$150,000 for
equipment procured under ICB would be subject to prior IDA review of
procurement documentation. Thus about 90% of the total contract value of
IDA procurement would be subject to prior IDA review and the balance would
be reviewed by IDA after contract award. Assurances would be obtaine4
during negotiations that the procedures described above would be followed.
Procurement procedures are presented in Table 9.
F. Disbursements
3.33      The proceedL of the Credit would be disbursed over seven years.
Disbursement against all items would be based on full documentation, except
for contracts of less than US$20,000 which would require only Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Relevant supporting documentation would be kept by
the disbursing entity, with copies supplied to the PMU and subsequently
reviewed by auditors. The documentation would be readily available for
review by IDA during project supervision. Disbursements would be
facilitated by the special accounts described in para. 3.35. Proceeds of
the IDA credit is shown in Table 10 and the schedule of IDA disbursements
in Table 11.
3.34      A seven-year disbursement period is assumed, instead of the nine
year profile for all agricultural projects in Sudan. This is appropriate
for this Project because: (i) the SKADP would avoid one of the major
causes of Implementation delays of rural projects in Sudan, namely housing
and office construction dur:.t;g the early years, since the currently
unoccupied housing and office complex built by the GTZ ir Kadugli has been
made available to the PMU; (ii) NMAC field facilities would be made
available to the Extension Service no later than April 15, 1988 (para
7.01); and (iii) more than 50% of the SKADP expenditures would be for
rehabilitation, maintenance and road infrastructure, the regional
disbursement profile for which is 7 years.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.35      Special Accounts.  To provide foreign exchange expeditiously and
to facilitate disbursements, the PMU would open and maintain a special
account in US currency with the Bank of Sudan or with a commercial bank
authorized by the Bank of Sudan on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
It would be used to pay the IDA portion of all eligible project
expenditu-res. Upon credit effectiveness and at the request of the
Borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit of USS1.0 million which
corresponds to about 3 months of estimated IDA disbursements. It would be
replenished periodically on the basis of documentary evidence provided to
IDA. The minimum replenishment would be US$250,000 or about 25% of the
initial advance. The special account would be used for all project
expenditures to be financed by IDA, with the exception of direct payments
to suppliers. The PMU would also maintain a project account for local
funds   with a commercial bank in Sudan.  The GOS would initially deposit
LSd 400-,000 not later than April 15, 1988 the estimated equivalent of 6
months of its PYI contribution, and would maintain at least LSd200,000 in
the account (para 7.01). Implementing agencies involved in cost recovery
would maintain special accounts in the Province, where relevant revenues
would be kept (para. 5.20).



- 22 -
3.36      The supporting documents and SOEs would be retained by the PMU
and by each project entity concerned and would be available to IDA
supervision missions. Annual accounts, SOEs and special accounts would be
audited by auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited annual accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA, in English,
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Should GOS
require the Auditor General to audit the PMU's accounts, the PMU would not
be relieved of the obligation to have its accounts audited by independent
auditors (para 7.01).
H. Environmental Impact
3.37      Project activities would have positive effects on the
environment. Major among these are:
(i) A land survey and land use study would be initiated under a PPF
to provide accurate information, to recommend environmentally
sound land use for the various parts of the Province, recommend
possible modifications to tenure practices, design a monitoring
system for the natural resource base, and together with the
Regional Planning Authorities to recommend policy measures and a
timetable for their implementation.15/
(ii) Higher yields and increased incomes would reduce the need for
cultivation of marginal areas, which are often susceptible to
environmental degradation;
(iii) The strengthened agricultural extension would disseminate
environmentally sound information, which together with improved
cultivation practices would help reverse environmentally damaging
practices such as mono-cropping and short fallow;
(iv) The introduction and application of fertilizer in the qoz sands
would, as demonstrated in WSP I, contribute to iand restoration;
(v) The rehabilitation of water sources serving a large portion of
the Province would ease the pressure from livestock now
concentrated on the few operational water points and would also
allow abandoned farm areas to be cultivated instead of marginal
land.
No farm inputs supplied under the Project would have a negative impact on
the environment and the operation of boreholes rehabilitated under the
Project would r.ot affect the water table in the area. Provision of farm
machinery would be a potential risk. This risk would be minimized since
the AMS would provide mechanized services only on existing NMAC mechanized
schemes. Any expansion would take place only if consistent with the
recommendations of the land use plan cited above, which would also provide
guidance for the use of private tractors. Thus, controlled mechanization,
together with appropriate cultivation techniques, would not be detrimental
to the environment.
15/ Draft Terms of Reference for the study in Technical Volume, Annex 8.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
4.01      The project would be implemented by existing agencies in the
Province. Their respective responsibilities are shown below:
MOANR              MOAR           NWC          ABS/AMS        RBPC
Ag. Services/   Livestock       Water          Farm           Road
Farm Inputs     Health          Supply         Machinery      Rehabilitation
A Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established to provide
coordination and assistance to the IAs. Key official reporting
relationships are shown in Chart 1, and a more detailed description and
evaluation of the main project-related institutions is given in the
Technical Volume.l/
4.02      The PMU has been established for the duration of the project to
provide overall project administration and financial management. Its main
functions would be:
-    to coordinate project activities;
-    to monitor, evaluate and provide feedback on implementation
progress;
-    to provide supervision, support and assistance to IAs,
particularly in financial management, cost recovery and the
administrative aspects of procurement;
-    to control and account for the disbursement of project funds;
-    to oversee the provision of training and technical assistance;
-    to manage the special studies;
-    to generate and sustain commitment to project objectives by the
Central and Regional Governments; and
-    to coordinate with entities responsible for the implementation of
other projects in the Province.
The PMU is led by a Director reporting to the Minister, MOANR2/ and would
consist of an Implementation Section, a Financial Section and an
Administrative Section. Initially the PMU would have 23 higher level staff
(grade IX and above), of which four would be based in Khartoum and the
remainder, including the Director, in Kadugli. In later years staff could
be reduced as lAs are strengthened and the PMU work load lessens. All PMU
staff would be recruited for fixed terms not to exceed the project
implementation period, given that the PMU will be disbanded upon project
completion. An organization chart with proposed staffing is shown in Chart
2.
I/   Technical Volume, Annex 1.
2/   Creation of a Unit under the Minister, MOANR to monitor all
agricultural projects is being considered. If it is created, the
Director of the SKADP would report to the Minister through this Unit.



- 24 -
4.03      The PMU would be assisted by: (i) an Advisory Committee chaired
by the Director of the PMU. It would consist of representatives of the
Regional Government, the WSARP project in Kadugli, the NMAC, the NMRDP, the
AMS and the NWC in Kadugli. (Table 12). The main function of the Advisory
Committe shall be to coordinate project activities with other development
efforts in the project area; (ii) a Steering Committee headed by the
Undersecretary of MOANR. It would consist of representatives of MOFEP,
MAR, ABS, NWC, ARC/WSARP, RPBC and of the SKADP project director (Table
12). Its functions shall be to ensure consistency between project
activities and national development objectives, and to generate support for
the project. The Advisory and Steering committees should be established
not later than May 31, 1988 (para. 7.01).
4.04      Many of the implementing agencies are weak.  The project is
designed to address these difficulties by providing managerial, technical
and financial support. Project funds for institutional support (PMU,
training, technical assistance and studies) amount to about US$8.6 million
or 21% of the total project cost, To ensure sustainability in the
post-project period the project design calls for existing Provincial
agencies to implement the project with support by the PMU. Particular
emphasis would be given to cost recovery and to retention and use of
related revenues within the Province. (paras 5.14 - 5.20). The AMS was
recently separated from NMAC (para 3.15) and a study by consultants to be
completed during the third year of AMS operations would review AMS and
examine options for private sector participation in AMS operations,
particularly through a management contract (para 7.01).
Annual Work Plans
4.05      Implementation of all project activities would be effected on the
basis of annual plans and budgets. The manager of each institution
responsible for the implementation of part of the Project would prepare a
work plan and estimated budget, which would be submitted to the PMU. The
PMU would aggregate the above into a unified and consistent Annual Work
Program. This would be submitted to the MOANR for approval and
consideration in the preparation of the GOS budget for the following year.
The PMU would also submit the Annual Work Program for IDA review.
4.06      Annual work plans would specify project objectives for the
following year, detail activities to be carried out to achieve these
objectives, indicate the relevant time frame and the required financial,
physical and human resources.  In particular, the work program would
address the following: (a) a brief evaluation of the previous year's
performance relative to objectives and a discussion of its relevance to the
new plan; (b) detailed objectives and targets for the following year; (c)
description of activities for each objective, expected output and relevant
time frame; (d) significant dependencies and risks; (e) detailed investment
and operating budgets; (f) staffing and training plans; (g) financing plan;
and (h) procurement plan. Familiarization of PMU and other project staff
with preparation of work programs, budgets and IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures would be effected through a project etart-up
workshop and subsequent seminars.



- 25 -
Staffing
4.07      Proper staffing of the IAs with adequately skilled and properly
motivated staff is a major focus of the project. This objective would be
addressed in three ways: the recruitment of nationals; the provision of
training and technical assistance from within and from outside Sudan; and
the active assistance of the PMU in raising management competence through
direct intervention, studies, workshops and precisely directed training.
The project allows for substantial resources in each of these areas
(paras. 3.20-3.23).
4.08      There are three major areas where staff recruitment or
reallocation is necessary. For the agricultural extension component 70
Extension Officers or Assistant Extension Officers would be needed over
five years.3/ The Board of NMAC has already agreed to allow NMAC staff
with suitabTe skills to transfer to the Extension Service and many are
expected to do so. The PMU would require 23 higher level staff and
additional support staff, messengers, guards and drivers. These would be
transferred from Government service or recruited from the private sector
for fixed terms. The provision of field allowances, housing and training
opportunities would facilitate recruitment of suitable nationals to these
posts.
4.09      IAs would be reinforced through the establishment of management
systems, provision of training and technical assistance (para. 3.22).
Three Technical Assistants would assist the PMU: a Financial Controller
responsible for the overall financial management of the Project would
also assist the IAs with setting up cost recovery and financial control
systems; an Agriculturalist would work closely with the IAs responsible for
extension and inputs, the VSA and WSARP to establish coerdinated work
programs and monitoring systems; and a Management Systems Specialist, whose
primary responsibility would be to determine the constraints to management
effectiveness in the lAs. These constraints would be addressed, with funds
provided by the Credit, through special studies, workshops, seminars and
short-term consultancies organized by the PMU. The PMU would have access
to the Extension Service training facilities to be provided through the
Project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10      Each IA would have its own implementation monitoring system.  It
would be consistent with the methodology developed by the PMU, which would
be responsible for overall coordination. A systems and surveys unit within
the PMU would be responsible for determining methodologies, for data
quality checks, for analysis and for encoutaging feedback and management
response. On the basis of the approved annual work plans, progress reports
would be required at the end of each fiscal year. These would cover cost
recovery and other performance indices requested by the PMU. Evaluation of
project effects at the beneficiary level would be made through specific
3/   Technical Volume, Annex 1.



- 26 -
surveys carried out by the PMU in collaboration with the Extension Service
or other agencies. The PMU would prepare a mid-term review, which would be
available to the MOANR and to IDA 36 months after project effectiveness.
This review would evaluate project implementation and include
recommendations for project design modifications. MOANR's Planning
Department would prepare a Project Completion Report evaluating project
performance. This report would be completed not later than six months
after the credit closing date (para 7.01).



- 27 -
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICING AND COST RECOVERY
A. Incremental Production
5.01      Implementation of the Project would contribute to increased
agricultural production and incomes in Southern Kordofan (Table 10)
through higher crop yields, renewed cultivation of land near water points
to be rehabilitated through the project, expansion of cultivated areas
through the use of private mechanized services, and improved livestock
health.
Water Component
5.02      Water is the major limiting factor for agricultural production in
Southern Kordofan. It affects location and permanence of settlements,
livestock migratory patterns, and timeliness of agricultural operations.
Through the rehabilitation and maintenance of wateryards and haffirs, the
project would ensure a regular and steady supply of water for humans and
livestock. This would permit increased crop and livestock production by
allowing farmers to settle and cultivate, saving time in collecting water,
reducing the need to trek south in search of water during the dry season,
and relieving pressure on the traditional dry season grazing areas.
5.03      Most wateryards in the Project area are not presently
operational. The remainder yield only between 20-40% of their potential
(design) output. Under the project, once the rehabilitation of the 133
wateryards is completed, 2,000 million liters of water would be produced
annually, compared to a total of around 550 million liters at
present. The schedule of wateryard rehabilitation under the Project is
presented below:
Wateryard Rehabilitation Schedule
PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY 5   PY 6   Total
0     15     30      29     30     29      133
In terms of quantity of water produced, the project would thus generate the
equivalent of 104 additional "average" wateryards. In the absence of the
project, water output is expected to decline within six years from 550
million liters to about 275 million liters per year, i.e. a loss equivalent
to the output of 14 fully operating wateryards. Thus, the project would
generate a total net incremental output of 118 fully operating wateryards
or 2,275 million liters of water. According to recent field surveys by the
WSP in South Darfur, an average wateryard can support about 450 households,
working to a total cropped area of 7,250 ha, together with about 7,600 head
of cattle and 4,900 head of sheep and goats. In estimating wateryard
related incremental production due to this Project, it is assumed that 1/3
of the above area and cattle would be due to the rehabilitation and that it
would be achieved with a two-year lag.1/ The rehabilitation of haffirs
1/   Detailed estimated agricultural production in areas around wateryards
is presented in Technical Volume, Annex 9, Table 22.



- 28 -
would also improve water supply by an estimated 80-100 thousand cubic
meters annually. Benefits would consist primarily of providing water to
sedentary and nomadic livestock. However, there Is no reliable data
available on water quality and on related agricultural production to permit
complete quantification of benefits.
5.04      Agricultural Extension and Input SupEly.  Incremental production
from agricultural extension and input distribution has been estimated on
the basis of ti) the pace at which the extension service would extend its
coverage; (ii) projected adoption rates by farmers of available packages
(seed dressing, improved seeds, cultural practices, and phosphatic
fertilizer on qoz soils); and (11) estimated utilization of fruit-tree
seedlings from nurseries to be rehabilitated under the Project.
5.05      It is estimated that during the Project period the Provincial
Extension will have reached 300 farmers' groups with a total of 90,000
farmers, or about 15% of all farmers in the Province.2/  Among the 300
farmers' groups, 220 would be located in clay plains and 80 in qoz (sandy
soil) areas. The schedule of adoption of improved practices and Inputs is
summarized below:
Qoz Soils            PY I    PY 2    PY 3    PY 4    PY 5    PY 6
Farmers reached         0   3,000   7,500  12,000  18,000   24,000
X of Farmers Adopting
Seed dressing           0       25      45       63      69        75
Millet improved seed   0         3        7      13       31       27
Groundnut improved      0        7      17       28      39        47
seed
Fertilizer a/           0        3       6       13       19       25
Clay Soils
Farmers reached         0  12,000  22,500  33,000  49,500   66,000
X of Farmers Adopting
Seed dressing           0       25      52       68       70       75
Sorghum improved seed  0         3       6       11       17       20
Sesame improved seed   0         7      12       20      33        40
Cotton seed b/          0       40      40       40      40        40
a/  Farmers would apply fertilizer to gradually increasing portions of
their farms.
b/ Seed distributed to all cotton growers by the NMAC.
The number of farmers reached, adoption rates of extension packages and
respective yield increases have been based on the experience of WSP I.
Seed dressing, a simple and inexpensive technology resulting in yield
increases from 5% to 10% for the various crops, would be readily adopted by
most farmers reached.3/ Lower adoption rates have been assumed for
improved seeds, because of higher costs, distribution difficulties and, in
the case of sorghum, taste preference for traditional varieties.
Corresponding yield increases have been assumed from 52 to 10%. The area
2/   NMFU membership is about 600,000 farmers, or on the average, 1.5
farmers per household.
3/   Incremental production due to seed dressing adoption shown in
Technical Volume, Annex 9, Table 24.



- 29 -
under improved cultural practices has been assumed tc be equivalent to the
area under improved seeds, since proper cultivation methods are required if
improved seeds are to produce up to their potential. Application of small
amounts of phosphatic fertilizer on qoz soils has resulted in 40% yield
increases in WSP trials. However, in this Project a rather slow adoption
rate has been assumed, because fertilizer is a sophisticated and
significant investment, and its availability would be constrained by
distribution difficulties.4/ The rehabilitation of horticultural
nurseries and the increased a-ailability of fruit tree seedlings would
result in greater production in the North-Eastern part of the Province,
where horticultural cultivation is already practiced.5/ It is assumed
that the cropping patterns will not change in the short run (i.e. during
the project period). Nonetheless, once regional self-sufficiency in grain
has been achieved, and more labor or labor saving practices become
available, a shift towards increased cultivation of cash crops such as
sesame, groundnuts and, possibly, cotton, would be expected. Although the
Extension Service has been largely non-functional in recent years, many
farmers are knowledgeable about improved inputs and practices through the
NMAC, which serves about 15,000 farmers each year, and the NMRDP, which has
trained about 3,000 farmers in animal traction and improved cultivation
practices. Many more have been informed by word of mouth, by radio and,
those in the west, by their neighbors in the WSP project area. Thus there
is a foundation for the Extension Service to build on and attain the above
targets.
5.06      Tractor Services.  At present, horizontal expansion in cropped
area is constrained mainly by labor shortages at the time of land
preparation (particularly on the clay soils, which are very difficult to
cultivate manually or with animal traction), during the weeding period, and
for sesame during harvesting. Yields are low partly because of late and
shallow planting and weed infestation. Mechanical cultivation of land
would enable the smallholders to improve the yields, maintain or increase
the area cropped, and reduce the labor needed for ieeding.  It would also
create the opportunity for smallholders to generate the cash needed to hire
more labor at peak periods. The resulting incremental crop production has
been estimated on the basis of the additional number of operational
tractors which would be procured o.. rehabilitated under the Project and of
the area cultivated per tractor each year.6/
5.07      Animal Health.  The Project-supported vaccination and treatment
services would result in reduced animal mortality and improved liveweight.
The resulting increase in animal production7/ has been conservatively
4/   Incremental production due to improved seeds, cultural practices and
fertilizer respectively shown in Technical Volume, Annex 9, Table 25,
26 and 27.
5/   Incremental horticultural production due to the Project is shown in
Technical Volume, Annex 9, Table 28.
6/   Shown in Technical Volume, Annex 9, Table 23.
7/   Shown in Thchnical Volume, Annex 9, Table 29.



- 30 -
estimated on the basis of the anticipated increase in off-take in the year
of treatment and the succeeding year only, with off-take rates maintained
at their current estimated level of 7% for cattle and 25% for sheep and
goats. The general benefits that result from animals being in better
condition (eg. improved calving or milk production) have not been
quantified due to lack of data.
5.08      As detailed in Table 13, the total production, i.e. from
reclaimed farms near rehabilitated water yards, from improved inputs, from
improved agricultural practices and from mechanization, is estimated to
increase to the following levels by years 5 and 10 after Project start-up:
Quantity
Quantity        Average Annual   (1000    Average Annual
('000 tons)    Percentage Change  tons)  Percentage Change
1985/86  1992/93   1985/86-1992/93  1997198  1985/86-1992/93
Sorghum          235      265            2.6           320           3.6
Millet            22       34           10.0            79          25.9
Seed-cotton       67       70            1.0            72           0.7
Sesame            29       32            2.1            35           2.1
Groundnut          9       12            6.7            17           8.9
Fruit              4        5            5.0            10          15.0
Cattle a/        140      152            1.7           169           2.1
Sheep/goats a/  475       485            0.4           523           1.0
a/  0ff-take in thousand heads.
Modest increases in sorghum production but steeper increases for millet are
expected, as many of the rehabilitated wateryards would be in millet-
producirg areas.  The incremental production of 140,000 tons of staple
grain (sorghum and millet) 10 years after project start-up is expected to
be consumed mostly locally and to contribute to provincial and regional
self-sufficiency in basic food. With an estimated annual demand of about
180 kg of grain per person, population growth, excluding migration, in
Southern Kordofan would in 10 years after project start-up create an
additional demand for grain of about 145,000 tons annually.8!/ Any
occasional surplus could be disposed of in neighboring food-deficit areas
such as Darfur or Northern Kordofan. The incremental production of sesame,
groundnut and cotton would contribute primarily to increasing Sudan's
export earnings, particularly if the export exchange rate were
appropriately adjusted. Additional fruit and animal production would
increase local consumption, or in the case of livestock, could make an
important contribution to exports, as had been the case prior to the
drought related ban on exports.
8/   About 3% annual growth in population, meaning an increase from 1.4
million in 1984 to about 2.2 million people in 1997.



- 31 -
B. Markets and Prices
5.09      In Sudan, the Government sets the prices of some agricultural
goods, whereas market forces determine others. For goods in the project
area, cotton prices are fixed, those of groundnuts, sorghum, sesame and
millet are supported through floor prices, and prices of livestock are set
by the market. Since 1980 cotton prices have lagged behind those of other
crops, and consequently production has dropped. In 1986/87, cotton prices
were raised by 17% over 1985, and several farmers indicated that more
cotton would be planted next season. Sesame and groundnut support prices
have in the past been well below market prices. However, in 1986/87
groundnut floor prices were raised significantly to LSd55/kantar, compared
Lo LSd21/kantar in 1985. Similarly, the support price for sorghum produced
in Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) demarcated areas was set at
LSd35/sack (9Okgs/sack), whereas post harvest market prices had dropped to
below LSd 20/sack in the Eastern region and to LSd 30/sack in parts of
Southern Kordofan. This situation forced the GOS to buy substantial
quantities of groundnut and sorghum, which created serious liquidity and
logistical problems for the Government.
5.10      Southern Kordoian is a food grain deficit area.  Most grain
produced by smallholders is consumed on the farm and only about 10% is
marketed. Occasional surpluses from small scale farmers and from large
scale mechanized schemes are sold in the neighboring areas of Northern
Kordofan and Darfur. Even during the 1985-1987 high production period in
Southern Kordofan, village market prices did not drop below floor prices,
except for sorghum, which for a period sold in Dilling and Kadugli at about
LSd28-30/sack. Because of seasonal variation in rainfall, limited storage
facilities and the poor transportation and marketing network, prices
fluctuate widely.
5.11      The sorghum price in the economic and financial analyses has been
taken as the export parity price in the mechanized areas of eastern Sudan
and transport costs from there to Southern Kordofan have been added.
Reflecting historic price differentials, the millet price has been taken at
10% above sorghum price. (Southern Kordofan is a net importer of grains
from the Eastern Region.) Prices for groundnuts and sesame are based on
export parite prices, and cotton prices have been set in relation to the
projected medium-term export parity value. Increased production due to the
project would have minimal effect on the level of prices, as provincial
cotton production represents less than 5% of national production and the
province is not self-sufficient in grains. With improved storage
facilities, increased production would tend to even out seasonal and
spatial price variations.9/
5.12      Livestock is the main source of cash income in the project area
and the total number of animals sold outside the project area is about
equivalent to Sudan's total livestock exports. The recent drought resulted
in high prices for livestock. In the financial and economic analyses,
livestock prices have been based on export parity prices and the medium
term projections for world beef prices.
9/   USAID and EEC funded projects include components for improvement of
centralized and on-farm storage, respectively.



- 32 -
5.13      Government pricing policy would not detrimentally affect producer
incentives in Southern Kordofan, because it is a deficit area where local
market prices are not influenced by Government controls. Government
pricing and foreign exchange policies will have a progressively greater
impact on the Province's future development, particularly as production
shifts toward tradeable commodities. It is important, therefore, that
policies be adapted to encourage production of commodities in which the
Province would have a comparative advantage.
C. Cost Recovery
5.14      Under the Project, full recovery of costs, at replacement, would
be introduced for water supply, provision of farm inputs, plant protection
and tractor hire services. Veterinary drugs and services would continue to
be sold at full cost. The establishment of appropriate systems for
estimating costs and revising charges would be supported through the
project. Assurances will be sought during negotiations that cost recovery
arrangements described in the following paragraphs would be established and
enforced (para 7.01).
5.15      Water.  At present, water from wateryards and haffirs equipped
with filters is sold, while water from other sources in Southern Kordofan,
(including most haffirs) is free. The water charge necessary to ensure
full cost recovery of wateryard operation and maintenance costs is
estimated at about LSdO.05 per 18 liter container at 1986 prices; this
would cover all operating costs, including salaries, fuel, spares and other
maintenance expenditures. The current rate of LSdO.O1 per 18 liter
container, would be p;;ogressively increased, in line with progress made by
NWC in rehabilitating wateryards and establishing an effective and
efficient maintenance service. In PYI NWC would prepare a plan for
revising water charges. By PY3 charges would have been raised to cover
operating costs and by PY6 to full cost recovery. Based on the experience
of the WSP and of a few communities in Southern Kordofan, water charges to
ensure full cost recovery would be readily accepted by the people if the
NWC ensures an adequate water supply. In some communities water committees
have recently been organized to work together with the NWC on collection of
fees and proper maintenance. This practice would be promoted and replicated
wherever possible under the Project.
5.16      Farm Inputs.  Under the Project, farmers or merchants and other
intermediaries would be charged full costs for all seed dressing,
fertilizer, fruit tree seedlings and improved seeds. Improved crop seeds
would be bought from the contract growers at, at least, 125% of the current
market prices of traditional crops. Livestock drugs and vaccines are
currently sold at cost and this practice would continue. The private
sector would be utilized whenever possible for the distribution of inputs.
However, until demand for these inputs incredses, it may be necessary to
supplement distribution by the private sector through NGOS and the
extension service. Livestock drugs and vaccines would be distributed by
the VSA or licensed distributors in order to comply with legal
requirements. Charges for all inputs would include the real costs of
production or procurement, handling, transportation and distribution.



- 33 -
5.17      Plant Protection services are currently available to private
farmers at costs covering an estimated 40% of the total. Under the project
charges would be gradually raised to full cost by PY3. This would apply to
fumigation of storage areas, spraying of fields and orchards, and rental of
spraying equipment.
5.18      Tractor Hire Service.  Full cost recovery would be introduced
from the outset of the Project for all tractor cultivation services. The
increase in cultivation charges by the AMS woulo bep substantial (from the
present LSdl6.5/ha to about LSd6O/ha). However, farmers place a high value
on tractor cultivation services and already pay this much to the few
private tractor operators in the area. Therefore, this price rise should
not create problems of demand for services and would generate economic and
financial benefits for the farmers and the AMS (para. 6.02)10/
5.19      The principle of paying for goods and services is well
established in Southern Kordofan. However, cost recovery has not been
effective, partly because services have been inadequate and partly because
public agencies are usually unable to accurately estimate costs, establish
efficient collection systems and manage revenues. To this end, the PMU
would provide hands-on support to the lAs to improve service and management
systems. This in turn would support sustainability of operations in the
post project period.
5.20      Revenues collected by NWC from wateryard operations; by the Plant
Protection Department (PPD) for pest control; by the VSA for livestock
health inputs and services; by the NSA for improved seeds; by the
Department of Horticulture for fruit tree seedlings; and by the Extension
Service for fertilizer and seed dressing would be kept in separate special
accounts with banks in Kadugli; NWC would maintain a second account in
Babanusa to handle operations in the western part of the Province. The
accounts would be managed by the Provincial administrator of each service
and would be used to fund relevant activities within the Province (para.
4.05). These accounts would be audited annually (para. 3.35). Revenues
recovered and their intended use would be described in the work plans,
which should be prepared in time to be considercd in preparing the GOS
budget allocation. Expenditures over LSd1O,000 or for activities not in the
annual work plans would be subject to prior approval by the PMU Director
or, in his absence, the PMU Financial Controller (para 7.01).
10/ See also Technical Volume, Annex 9, Table 17 and Annex 7.



- 34 -
D. Fiscal Analysis
5.21      After PY5 the Project would have a positive impact on the
Government's budget. During the project period major outflows would
consist of the GOS contribution to the project and service charges for the
IDA and AfDB loans.  The total would rise to LSd6.9 milliou (US$1.5
million) in year 6. To sustain project activities in subsequent years, the
GOS would be required to periodically replace machinery and equipment and
to provide about LSd4 million (US $0.9) for the recurrent expenditures of
the Extension Service and of Road Maintenance Unit and about 50% of the
PPD, Horticulture and VSA to sustain project initiated activities. Other
recurrent expenditures would be funded through cost recovery. Inflows
would consist of import taxes on fuel, sales taxes on estimated marketed
incremental production of crops and livestock and repayment of the ABS and
AMS sub-loans (para. 5.23). The GOS cash flow related to the Project would
be negative during the Project period and positive thereafter, although
marginally negative in years when machinery and equipment would be replaced
(Table 14).
5.22      About US$2.8 million would be provided to the ABS to be on-lent
to farmers to purchase firm machinery (para. 3.16). Funds borrowed by the
farmers would be repaid in 7 years plus service and mark-up charges
equivalent to 19% interest rate per year. The ABS would borrow relevant
funds from the GOS at 13% interest rate equivalent which would allow a
sufficient spread for servicing the loans.11/ The funds would be repaid
in 20 years, including 5 years grace period, with the GOS assuming the
foreign exchange risk. Given that the annual inflation rate is estimated
at slightly below 30%, these on-lending rates are negative. However,
compared to the 14.5% interest rate equivalent currently in force for
agricultural lending, the new rates represent movement in the right
direction. If, as projected, inflation drops to 252 and 20% in 1988/89 and
1989/90, respectively, these rates would approach positive levels. In any
case, lending rates would be reviewed annually and modified, if necessary,
with a view to move toward positive real interest rates (para 7.01).
5.23      About US$1.8 million would be allocated to the AMS component.
(para. 3.16). Given that Whe AMS would start as a new legal entity with no
revenues for about a year, it would not be able to assume the total amount
above as debt. Consequently, LSd3.0 million (US$0.67 million) would be
made available as Government grant. The remaining US$1.1 million would be
lent to the AMS by the GOS at 19% interest rate equivalent per year, to be
repaid in 20 years, including 5 years grace period, with the GOS assuming
the foreign exchange risk (para 7.01). Signed subsidiary loan agreements
between the GOS and the AMS and ABS wouLd be conditions for credit
effectiveness (para 7.01).
II/ Technical Volume, Annex 6.



- 33 -
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Quantifiable Benefits
6.01      Smallholder farmers and livestock owners would be the main
project beneficiaries. Benefits would be expected from: (i) the
rehabilitation and maintenance of water sources, resulting in greater crop
and livestock production (paras. 5.02-5.03); (ii) higher yields from
improved inputs, better cultivation practices and plant protection (paras.
5.04-5.05); (iii) increased area under cultivation and higher yields from
agricultural machinery (para. 5.06); and (iv) increased livestock
production from expanded vaccination and improved diagnostic and
therapeutic services (para. 5.07). Incremental production estimates are
presented in Table 13.
B. Farmers' Incomes
6.02      The net incremental farm income derived from the project would
depend on the degree of adoption by individual farmers of technology
available. Four typical farm budgets representative of the conditions in
the project area are presented in Tables 15 through 18.1/ The project's
effect on annual net cash income is summarized below:
Farm Household                            Net Cash Income (LSd)
Clay Soils                Present      Adopting All Recommended   Incremental
Practices a/
Traditional farm b/         130                        420              290
Mechanized farm c/        1,346                      1,793              447
Traditional changing
to mechanized            130                      1,793            1663
Qoz Soils
Traditional                   0 d/                     244              244
a/  Assumptions concerning rate and degree of adoption of improved
practices described in para. 5.05.
b/ Farm area of 8 fd. excluding household gardens.
ct Farm area of 34 fd.
d/! Fully subsistence farming. Income from livestock not included.
The rehabilitation and establishment of orchards, made possible by the
increased availability of fruit tree seedlings, show attractive financial
rates of return, in tne range of 25-38%. Benefits accru'ng from livestock
activities are more difficult to quantify. However, as a result of
1/   Crop budgets are presented in the Technical Volume, Annex 9, Chapter
III.



- 36 -
improved veterinary services, it is estimated that incremental benefits of
around LSd200 annually would accrue to large sedentary herd owners and of
LSd500-1000 to cwners of nomadic herds of 100 head or more.
C. Non-quantifiable Benefits
6.03      Intangible benefits would also be generated by the Project.  The
most important are: (i) institutional strengthening of the implementing
agencies; (ii) increased private sector involvement in input supply and
provision of tractor services; (iii) more rational use of natural resources
near rehabilitated wateryards; and (iv) more efficient marketing from the
improved transport network.
D. Impact on Women
6.04      Women contribute up to 50% of agricultural labor required in crop
production and are invariably in charge of all the labor involved in
providing field workers with water and food, collecting water and wood for
household use and for watering livestock. The rehabilitation of wateryards
and haffirs would substantially reduce the time they spend carrying water.
The restoration of mechanized cultivation would reduce labor for sowing and
weeding, although this would be partially offset by increased cropped
area. Even though the total amount of women's labor may not decrease
appreciably, the time saved as a result of the Project would be available
for more productive and less arduous activities. Extension information
applicable to the homestead garden and the near fields would be directed
mainly towards women. Women Extension Officers are already employed for
sanitation and nutrition work, but few for agriculture. Under the proposed
project female extensionists would be recruited and trained to disseminate
information pertinent to farming activities undertaken by women. This
issue would also be part of the Extension Service Study. (para. 3.08).
E. Economic Analysis
6.05      The economic rate of return for this Project is estimated at
25% (Table 19). The project ERR is favourable, largely as a result of: (i)
the project's main focus on rehabilitation; and (ii) the application of
simple and inexpensive technologies proven to be effective in conditions
similar to those prevailing in Southern Kordofan. Estimated ERR for
various project components 2/ are:
Component                            ERR (%)
Water supply                           35
Agricultural development3/             28
Livestock health                       19
Project, Total                         25
2/   Overhead costs (i.e. project management) not included in calculation
of component ERR.
3/   Includes Agricultural Services, Farm Inputs and Mechanized Services.



- 37 -
6.06      The main assumptions underlying the economic analysis are as
follows:
(a)   Economic benefits have been estimated on the basis of the
incremental production for crops and livestock (Table 9).
Economic values (Table 16) are based on projected medium-term FOB
export prices for seed-cotton, sesame, groundnut and livestock.
For sorghum and millet, the economic value is based on the
projected export parity price of sorghum from mechanized farms in
the east of the country plus transport cost to Southern
Kordofan, since both crops would reduce regional dependence on
grain supplies from the Eastern region. The economic value of
fruit has been assumed to be equivalent to its market price.
Economic values for all outputs are in constant mid-1987 prices
and have been kept constant for the life of the project, since,
in most cases, international price projections for the type and
quality of output which would be produced under the Project are
not available.
(b)   The economic costs have been calculated on the basis of: (i)
Project costs; (ii) replacement of vehicles every 5 years, and
equipment after 10 years; (iii) annual recurrent costs after the
6-year project implementation period at a level comparable to
that of year 6 of the project; and (iv) on-farm incremental
economic costs estimated on the basis of crop budgets and
adoption rates for practices supported under the project.
(c) Based on observation in the field, a shadow wage rate of 66
percent of the market rate has been assumed for on-farm labor.
The local currency component of all other incremental costs and
benefits has been converted to a border price expressed in local
currency by using a standard conversion factor of 0.818 (i.e.,
shadow exchange rate estimated at US$1 to LSd5.5).
(d)   The economic life of the project is assumed to be 20 years.  No
salvage value has been imputed for the project's assets at the
end of this period.
(e)   The commercial exchange rate of US$1.00 - LSd4.5 has been used.
6.07      Sensitivity Analysis.  The economic rate of return was tested for
it- sensitivity to changes in cost and benefit levels from 10% to 50% and
in delays from 1 to 3 years (Table 20). The ERR is equally sensitive to
fluctuation in costs and benefits. A 20% variation in costs or benefits
would lower or raise the ERR by about 8 percentage points. A lag of 1 year
in benefits compared to costs would decrease the ERR to 18%. A lag of 1
year in adopting extension messages reduces the ERR to 22% and a lag of 2
years to 19%. Switching values analysis at 15% indicates that benefits
would have to be reduced by about 22% or costs increased by about 28% for
the present value of net streams to equal zero.



- 38 -
F. Risks
6.08      The major risk to Project 3uccess emanates from possible
difficulties in recruiting qualified key staff, particularly for the new
entities: The PMU; and the Extension Service. The AMS director would also
be of paramount importance to its success ad a commercial entity. The WSP
I demonstrated that competent staff are not always ready to relocate to
remote "hardship" posts. This risk would be minimized in the SKADP by:
(i) making housing available to higher level staff; (ii) field allowances
to supplement basic salaries; (iii) training incentives; (iv) the transfer
of qualified NMAC staff to AMS and to the Provincial Extension Service.
Still, the expeditious appointment of qualified persons to head the PMU,
the Extension Service and the AMS would be a determining factor for Project
success.
6.09      Many of the IAs are institutionally weak, particularly with
respect to management and financial systems. This would adversely affect
the preparation and implementation of work plans and effective cost
recovery. IAs would be assisted under the Project through: (i) close
supervision and assistance by the PMU; (ii) technical assistance; and (iii)
training.
6.10      Friction may arise among the Project IAs, the Regional Government
and the Central Government detrimental to Project implementation. The
creation of the Advisory and Steering Committees (para. 4.04) in which the
above entities and Project beneficiaries would be represented, is expected
to alleviate this risk.
6.11      The tenuous situation of the economy could inhibit rroject
implementation. Scarce foreign exchange and limited budgetary allocations
could reduce the availability of farm inputs, veterinary drugs, spare parts
and fuel. Foreign exchange would be provided through the Credit during the
Project period and the installation of cost recovery systems would provide
funds for local currency needs in the long run.
6.12      The Province's remote location and limited infrastructure could
cause delays and higher costs for construction materials and other items
imported from abroad or even from Khartoum. The transfer of existing
office and housing facilities to the PMU would help significantly to avoid
delays during the start-up period. The Financial Controller and a small
number of PMU staff would be initially based in Khartoum, with one person
in Port Sudan to expedite procurement and movement of supplies to the
Project area.



- 39 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)   The Director of the Provincial Extension Service would be
appointed not later than April 15, 1988 (para. 3.05);
(b)   Pesticides purchased would be subject to prior consultation with
IDA (para. 3.09);
(c)   The Regional Gover,iment would establish a Road Maintenance Unit
during PY1 (para. 3.19);
(d)   Preparation by the PMU of a training program for PYI, not later
than April 15, 1988 (para. 3.21);
(e)   A Financial Controller acceptable to IDA would be appointed to
the PMU as a condition for credit effectiveness (para. 3.23);
(f)   All conditions precedent to the loan agreement between the GOS
and the AfDB will have been fulfilled as a condition for credit
effectiveness (para. 3.28);
(g)   NMAC field facilities would be transferred to the Extension
Service not later than April 15, 1988 (para. 3.34);
(h)   The GOS would deposit LSd400,000 in the project account for local
funds not later than April 15, 1988 and would maintain at least
LSd200,000 in the account (para. 3.35);
(i)   Project accounts would be audited annually by auditors acceptable
to IDA (para. 3.36);
(j)   The Advisory and Steering Committees for the project would be
established not later than May 31, 1988 (para 4.03);
(k)   AMS operations would be reviewed after two years with a view to
private sector participation in the AMS (para. 4.04);
(1)   A Project Completion Report would be prepared by the MOANR
(para. 4.10);
(m)   Cost recovery arrangements would be established and enforced,
including revolving fund accounts, as described in paras.
5.14-5.20;
(n)   The ABS would borrow US$2.8 million from the GOS at 13% annual
interest rate, payable in 20 years, including 5 years grace
period, with the GOS assuming the foreign exchange risk. These
funds would be on-lent to farmers at 19% annual interest rate,
payable in 7 years (para. 5.22);



- 40 -
(o)   US$0.67 million would be made available by the GOS to the AMS as
grant. US$1.1 million would be on-lent by the GOS to the AMS at
19% annual interest rate payable In 20 years with 5 years grace
period, with the GOS assuming the foreign exchange risk (para.
5.23);
(p) Loan agreements between the GOS and the ABS and AMS would have
been executed as a condition for credit effectiveness (para.
5.23);
7.02      Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$19.7 million to the Republic of Sudan.



Table 1
SUDAN                                                             Page 1 of 2
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Southern Kordofan Province -
Area, Production and Yield for Major Crops
(1975/76 - 1984/85)
1975/76    1976/7?    1977/78        1978/79    1919/80    1980/81         1981/82    1982183    1983/84    1984/VS
RRE£ ('000 fd)
sorghut                           558         SS         599          616         S4S         623          631          894        1012         849
millet                           n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a. --- average 41 -----------------------                                 SO
ses5me                            136          80          55          110          75          100          105         150         180         171
groundnut                         133         100         115          102          35          50            50          20          16          18
cotton                            118         116         103           93          17           63           48          73          63          62
PRODUCTION ('000 ton)
sorghi,                           171         211         179          201         105         184          200          267         164          77
millet                           a.d.        n.e.        n.a.         n.a. ------------------- average 8 ------------------------                  4
sesme                              18          10           6           114         11           12           1t          11          22           7
groundnut (in shell)               l8          43          36           36           7           1S           15           S           2           1
seed-cotton ('000 Kt) 1/          319         315         347          247          56         132           108         160          7           2!
YIELD (kg/fd)
srghuw                            306         384         299          326         193         295           31?         299         162          91
millet                           n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.       -------------aveage 195 --------------------                     80
seswe                             132         125         109          127         147         120           133          93         122          41
groundut (in shell)               361         398         313          353         200         300          300          250         125          56
seed-cotton (Kt/fd) 1/           2.71        2.72        3.36         2.65        1.19        2.09         2.26        2.20         1.14        0.34
1/ IKantar (XVt) 15 kg
Source : Oata from Preparation Report
average area                     awerage production                     average yield
( 000 fd)                          ('000 ton)                            (kg/fd)
--    .---        ----------              ---    ------       -.---         ---- -----------------.
1975/76-   1980/81-   1975/76-    1975/76-   1980/81-   1975/76-    1975/76-   1980/81-   1975/76-
1979/80    1984/8S    1984/85        1979/80    1984/85    1984/85        1979/80    1984/8S    1984/85
sorghwm                        574         802         688          173         178         176          302         233         267
millet                          11          43          42            9           7           8          195         172          184
sew                             91         141         116           12          14          13          128         102         115
grondnut (in shell)             99          31          65           34           8          21          325         206         266
seed-cotton (dt)                9S          62          79          25?          99         178             3           2           2



Table 1
Page 2 of 2
South Kordofan - Breakdon of area, production and yield for major crops (1985986 and 1986/87)
1985/86                             1986/87
area      prod.     yield           area       prod.     yield
(1009 fd) ('000 ton)  (kg/fd)       ('000 fd) ('000 ton)  (kg/f d)
------ -   -- - ---   -----   --- - -     --- -- --  . .. .... .
SOR6HU
ffc schemes                        346.0       76.1       220          208.?        28.4       136
Undeparcated schemes 1/            261.0      !          )             269.8        57.9      215
ItRC schemes  2/                    51.0    )159.3       )200            -          -           -
Traditional sector                 485.0     )           )             490.6       115.8      236
o/l  Dilling                  (163.0)                             (143.8)
Kadugll                   (128.0)                             (129.8)
Rashad                    (116.0)                             (128.5)
El rula                    (78.0)                              (88.5)
IOtRL                       1143.0      235.4       206          969.0       202.1      209
*-.SRISK
flfU  schemes                       30.0         3.0      101           n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
Unden,rcated schemes                   -
tItRt schemes                          -
Traditional sector                 192.6       25.8       131          245.7        30.2     13
a/h Billing                 (about 4?)                             (41.2)       (6.3)    (152)
Kadugli                 (about 56)                             (68.0)       (9.2)    035)
Rashad                 (about 42)                             (100.2)      (.0.3)    (103)
El fula                 (about 45)                             (36.3)       (4.5)    (123)
TOTAL                        222.6       28.8      130            n.a.        n.a.     n.a.
COTTOH 3/
Total (lIlAC sch#trad)              33.0       67.0       2.0           n.a.  91.0 (est)    n.a.
HILLEi
Traditional sector
o/u Ouiling                 (about 15)                               15.7         2.8      175
Kadugli                (about 17)                                 8.1         1.5      185
Pashad                 (about 12)                                 2.0         0.4      205
El fula                 (about 70)                               63.6        14.3      225
TOTAL                        105.6       21.7      206            89.4        19.0      212



SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Roads: Phasing of Proposed Improvements
(LSd '000)
RANK                                                 Irish  Bridges             RC PIPE CULVERTS    RAIStD ROAD         OPEN BOTTOM       OTHER TRACK
ORDER             ROUTE             DISTANCE                                                                              CULVERT         IHPROVEMENTS
al                                   KH                     H                    NO.                KR                SPAN               KM
I   KADUSLI - ABU LEVAIS             25                     -                   10                  5                  2                 5
2   KADUSLI - LAGOWA                 75                    255                  20                 tO                                   15
3   LASOMA - EL ARAK                 25                    125                   4                2.5                  4                 5
4   KADUSLI - HASAKIN TIWAL          37                      45                  5                 13                                   10
S   KADU6LI - NIRI SUMA              20                      ?0                  1                                                     7.5
6   LA5ODA - DILLING                119                    410                   9                  2                                   24
SUB-TOTAL    301                      935                 49               32.5                   6             66.5
ALLOVANCE FOR ADDITIONAL
IMPROVEMENTS (30?)              90                     280                 15                 10                  2                20
TOTAL    391                   1,215                 64                42.5                  8              B8.5
a/ THE 'RANK ORDER' ASSIGNED TO EACH ROAD IN THIS TABLE INDICATES THE ORDER OF PRIORITY WITH WHICH IMPROVEMENTS MILL TAKE PLACE. IE; THE
KADU6LI - ABU LEWAIS ROAD WOULD RECEIVE HI6HEST PRIORITY.
bI INDICATES THE PROJECT YEAR(S) IN WHICH THE MAJORITY OF IMPROVEMENTS OCCUR.



Table 3
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricltural Dvelopuent Project
Trang ad Studies
(US$'000)
ibtal Cost
Including
Unit  PY       PY 2    PY 3    PY 4    PY 5    PY 6     btal  1ontinencies
A. Water Supplies
Local Training
Wateryards Operators       Person   22      52      54      32      32              192      10.1
Mecharcs                   Person  10       10      10      10      10               50       1.9
Nngmnt. Development        Wshop    9        6       5       5       5               30      21.7
B. Agric. Mbchinery Srvs.
Iocal Training
Drivers                    Person   75      75      75      75      75              375      11.2
Mechanics                  Person  30       30      30      30      30              150      13.9
Studies
Organization Study         Sum                                                               24.3
Operations Review          Sum                                                               26.4
C. gricultural Ektension
Ozerseas Training
Graduate Cburse            Person            2                                        2      73.0
6-month COurse            Person    2        2                                        4      40.4
Lcal Training
EKt. Officers              Person           14      14      14      14               56      27.9
Extensionists              Course            1       1       1                        3      11.3
Local EKtensionists        Person   50     100     150    200      250    300      1050      42.9
Seainars                   Semnr     1       1       1       1       1       1        6      23.1
Studies
Extension                  Sum                                                               22.5
D. Plant Protection
Pest Control                 Person   5        3       2                              10        3.9
E. Animnal Health
Overseas Training
Epideniology Course       Person                     1                                1      36.7
Lab Technicians            Person            1                       1                2      29.2
Local Training
Vet. Scouts Irng. Equipmt. Sum                                                                2.7
Vet. Scouts Trng. Allow.   Day            1200    1200    1200                     3600      10.2
F. Roads and Tracks Improvement
Local Training
Maintenance Staff          Sum                                                                17.6



Table 3
Page 2 of 2
G. Thticsul   Stawr
0msa Ttng
Short te   (2-8wek)       Person            3      4       5       6               18    127.8
Study tows                Person            5      10      15     20               50    273.4
6-uoith coss              Perso                            5       5       5       15    260.2
Graduate 0arse            pErson                    1       1      1                3     113.4
1bcal Train1ir
Project 1anch W*rkwbop   Sum                                                                8.9
bgt. Dev. Wbrksh,         Sum                                                              18.4
Drivers/jwhicas           Person   8       16      16      16     16      16       88       2.7
Storeknlpers              Person   8       16      16                              40       6.9
Typists                   Person   5       10      10      10     10               45      14.9
c0muter Operatos          Person    5       5       5      5       5       5      530      11.4
Acutarnt                  Persn    5       10      10      10     10               45      59.3
Studies
md    e                   M        10                                              10    118.3
Midterm EvaluastAn        mm                                5                       5      62.8
Total Project O,sts for Trainirg and Studies                                               1527.7



Table 4
SLuhonm Koihan  riLtural DmeAlnut Project
Tectnicat Assistance
OJWMD)
TotaL Cost
IncLudinr
UAit  PY I   PY 2   PY3   PY4   PY5   PY6   TotaL  CatirencSes
A. Water SupLies
System Operation Engineer    Me     6     12       6                           24         243.6
FieLd aperation 6ngineer    WI    12      12                                   24         2424
B. bricuLturaL Machinery Srvs.
ftiguit BEgineer            R4    12      12                                    24        242.4
C. Project Mq!R!Mt ULit
FiniciaL CtrotLLer          M      12     12      12     12      12     12     72         68L6
GeneraL AgricuLturist       WI    12      12                                   24         2187
Systems Specialist          M!    12       2       2      2       2            20         241.6
LegaL Assistance           SM                                                              16.0
D. InstituticaL Swort
ibt. C5ultant/Tmg. Off.    M9       6      2       2      2       2             14        170.6
Other CosuLtants            WM             8       8      8                    24         295.8
TotaL                              60     66      42     30      16     12    226        2359.7



TabLe 5
soot. touova.  wtoom   ~~                              Page  1  of  2
Sumia"' *mmt by P,J1t Ctaat
4tSd 'OM1
MRIUVLTOOL                ............. --------------pu                                                           953313   5
R4CRt6337    as5 IRACT00  463IcU7RSL    PLAU1    1600V   SIfb                 UIMEVA   306 MS 7*0  fSMI66T   FMOOh3
M*T13 SUPPLY   SIUVICIs     CUPS?T    EXTENSION   pU73cTI    PRODUCTION   WOSICDLTUU   WI*LT    IIpwOOtMUI             1311      160133
tWR**UtStt*  tttSftSttUS  *t.**.*.,  *tt,,*t,.##  *ttRRtRte  *St*....... ..........  RU**4 tR .... ....... * * ... SRURt.....SUR
I. 137257663 COSTS
A. CiviL imOm
I. CIVIL low6IT I7.                                     6511.6          -       2. 147.4     1778          2M. 3         573.5    121.0 a                  2.223.6
2. 337137*O 31336                       is, M.** 9                                                               
3. mm C66STUCII3                                                                                                                                R             ,0.7
Mi-Total CTVIL OMOS                        15, 951. 6      65.5            -       2. 111.4      111.6         265.2        97.5S    121.1Stw 6.1  .?           222.38
S. 33131363  AND 101113.3                   1.3*7.3      2.0*3.      11,35S2.0a      5331.6     251.2          272.4        253.6    tU6.6         3.742.5      476.6
C. 162330676US                              3,0 11.6     3,140.2           -       1. 48.S      396.t0         122.0        296. 4   LOW$.           275. 4    t.0on. 2 
0. VITERIU3Y0 616 H                                            - II                                 .                               L 3,1. 4
I. TEO90CAL *SSISTUCI                       210.0to.o    1. 0a0.0          -                                       .                                     *    463%. 4        2.W61.4
1. 16516136   STUDIE0S                      126.          273.4                   P03.1S        16.6             -                   20.9           67.6                   4,420. 3
Total INWISU1T 0017CST                        21,457.2      ,17 *1. 4        1.,352.0  S. 271. I   04.7          6084.7      I.&.  12,L047. 1       126.3 6.,6L 01. 2          6.413.
It. 31603313 COSTS
* LLLCS                                    I. 232. b          .-                    642.3      195.0          31. 0        132.0    145.0           09S.0      772.
1. VIIICLIa  04
FOIL MASOL3ICMS                      S. 9150. 2                      .      2.236.2       464.2         26.2         T91.? I  I136.2          447.0    2125. 0 
OnSITIIImI                                                                     M  6. 4    221.4          65.7        260.6    62.61           13.9    1.1130.3
kb-Total VEI3ctI0a6aN                   5.658.2                         .      2.650         M.5.6         356.       1,6.21.3  2.391            6521.51   3056.1 I
2. 0731 0916571U  IipIhSE                     .            -                      6.                                              S"20. 2        427.3    1.563.4-
2. 1WNW663066                           .39.242                         .-3,297.1
4. 631tl016683                                                          -        103.2  ---------213.8
Sibtdo-Tla 0P136t16 660 3131413C113A      IS05. S.4                               S  2247. 3   705.6          396.8      1,6021.2JS 2M6.3a        4".361    S.III83
C. OOICSLUTM  louts$                                          -                     74.2    1,4.6e          2,2.7M.?- 
L OFFICE SUPIts                                  -                                   923                          ...                                           3
7. AIR TRAWL                                     .                                      -...                                                                   933.3 
Ttotl 9133311O1   I 0651                       3,35. 2                        .        ,6.2w    2,443.2         4,11M 8      t. 2 2L   4.656.         5,041.6    6.20866.
Total BASELINE COSTS                           47,7M..4      71713.4      1, 352.0    10,3317.2I   323129.       4,1&14.3     2,503.6  IS,655.3a      17,422.6   1t,160.3        0. 428,7
Phyalal Cunti F -fuee                        4,422.0        233.0      1,125.2        644.7      307.69         416.2        320.9S  1,560.0        2.14. I    1. 123.?
3.10* Cogt11u.gwi.                           R 819.5.       352.1       209.4       1,071.1      301. 2       2.7662         411.6  1.727.4         2.47.89      .023L3         920.a
Total P3010 CT 7                               65,TS410.3    ?.66.#    It2,766.6      12. 6532     ,9.?          6,065I O.6a  3,133.3  20.172.2       22713.4   20,347.2         6, 047.69
Tan..                            2,~~~~~     ~     ~      ~     ~ ~~~~~931.3  -  1,106.?  240.2     129.0        312.0  I.66I I         1,004.4    1.342.2
FoftfIn.Oos.p                               42,1.91.      S,7. T.6    I2,307. 1     7,3.3K    2,341.8         L36.4263      . 18.6  16.622,6      10,202. 2    14,8.6        0,290.4
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .-... . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..       . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . ... .



Table 5
Page 2 of 2
Cora isnp1cels
Total          hmo t
470.s9  10.0   547.1
t5. 780. 9  10.0  1.574. t
8. 19S. 7  23.4  1.915.9
30.448.5  13. 6  4.141.0
29. 128. 6  10. 0  2.912.9
12.787.9   8.2  1.053.3
S. 719.4  to 0   971.9
l0.244.8   0.0      0.0
6.lt. 6   0.1      7.1
98.490.9   9. 2  9.086.9
4.927. 7   0. 8   41. 0
14.?71.4  10.0  1,471.1
3. 350.5  tO. 0    335. t
18.062. 0  10.0  I. 808. 2
2.478. 1  10.0   247.8
t2. 75. 3  10. 0  1.275.1
480.0  10.0    48.0
33. 7. 3  10.0  3.377. 1
6, 09. 6  1O. 0    606. 0
180.0  10.0     13. 0
155.0   9.3     14.5
1,553.2  10.0   155.5
46,548.8   9.0  4.212. 1
145,139.7   9.2 13, 29. 0
13,299.0   0.0      0.0
20,765.6 8.3  1 766.2
179. 204. 4    . 4 I5. 085. 2
*ttSI22:fS  2382 tSnttzSt
9, t8a5.   9. t   835. 2
130.206.9   8.6 11,144.4



Table 6
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Project Preparation Facility
Activities                                                  (US$ 000)
Project Director Salary and Allowances                         15.0
Support Staff                                                  20.0
PMU Office Supplies and Equipment                              20.0
PMU Office Rental                                              30.0
PMU Miscellaneous Expenses                                     30.0
Design and Preliminary Construction Work                      100.0
Vehicles (PMU 3; AMS 2)                                        85.0
AMS Organization Study                                         40.0
AMS Office Equipment                                           20.0
AMS (tractor rehabilitation,
tools, spares)                                           350.0
Technical Assistance                                           50.0
Land Use Study                                                 5060
Training Program Preparation                                   15.0
Extension Program Preparation                                  3060
Project Start-up Workshop                                      20.0
Sub-total                                                     875.0
Contingencies (20%)                                           175.0
Total PPF Amount                                            1,050.0



Table 7
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Estimated Annual Disbursements by Financing Agency
(US$ million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6  Year 7  Total
IDA      4.2  a/  4.4       4.6       2.3      2.0       1.4     0.7 b/  19.7
AfDB     1.1       2.8      3.3       2.9      2.8       2.7      -       15.6
GOS      0.2       0.5      0.7       0.8      1.0       1.3      -        4.5
Total    5.4       7.7      8.6       6.0      5.8       5.4      0.7    39.8
% of
Total     13.8      19.3     21.5       15.3    14.7      13.6    1.8   100.0
a/ Includes US$1.05 million which would be disbursed under a PPF prior to
project start-up.
b/ Would be disbursed within six months after project completion.



TabLe 8
SOJIl I0W00F1* A6RTCULTUR4t etVEtoPitNIt PROJCT
Fir.wng P!an Oy 0lsbrwnt Cet*gy
toSS Io")
INTERNATIONAL
OEVELtoNENli     PrR0c1        GOVEIIII3EIT OF
ASSOCIATION  DEVELOPNIIT 5*13      SUDAN*        total                    tocal
..-.......... ---------------- -------------  --------------              (Encl.  Duties 8
t 4mt  2        bs_tmt   I       ummt  I      Dumt   S    For. fich   74%c0*    twain
*824221s8 none   Mavw#"w      *use  conote*6   v**692 * uator s se- **wsss"se  Sants*:s    "w
A. CtVIt _3S
1. CIVIL NM$S                        3.0)5.6 5.2       P74.3  f.0       45.6 4.8  1. 75.5  4.5    1.098 3   677.2            -
2. MATEIVARI 3E133*L                       -   -    4.504.0 9a71    122.4 2.9  4.636.4  It.t    3.312.2  1.324.2              -
3.  19 COSICtIS                      2.283. 938 34.6                   137.2 5. 4  2.S21. I  & 3       8. I   68.O0
Sk6-Total CIVIL MORKS                   39.4 38.1    5. t8.3 58.0    3M9.3 4.0   a3O   22.4    L.245.t 2.687.4 
IL TRUSPORT HEMS
,,,______ _,,_,_
t. vCltttES
Tolm                                4663 43.9       S98 2 S5.         2. 5 0. 2   1. 007. 6  2. t    1. 02L 6  41.0       -
414 PICK-P                          647.0 SO.3      628.3  49.6       2.1 0.2   .2817.4  3.2    1.237.2    50. 2
414 SlTSIN 1t0a9                     70.6 16.3       37.4  34.3       0.t 0.1       O8 .1  0.3      104.0      4.1
lON 3311in                           41.3 17.1       119.8 82.7       0.6  0.2    241.7  0.6        230.9    10.8          -
AU SPaRES                      t 323  1 63.      7 434  35 6      t3.3 0.6  2. 08    5.2       . 493. 4   692.3
"5-Total mEICLeS                     2.556.9 534    2.215.0  8.2        8L 7 0.4  4.790.5  12.0    4,092.2    984
S*-tsb l tIUmP    mm*8S                 2.55S. 53.4    2.21.0  48.2       11.7 0.4   4.T90.5  12.0    4.0S2.2   69.4 
C.E4OIP ElllNFtl
EOUIPRII. 8 RATtIUALS                   -   -    2. 8   9 17. S      75.1 2.S  2.91t.9  1. 5    2.221.3   750.6           -
TRACTORS 8 AGRICUILTURAL
1401PR1ttl                        3262.|6 9192          -    -       24.7 0. 8   3.2t7.3  8 3    3.163.9   123.4          -
HEAVY t1StIw3                          66. 8  63.5     371.0 35.3       12.0  1.1  1.049.7  2.6        354.7    95.0         -
NORKSIIOP E1IIPEIlt                    117.8 15L       592.2  #4.9      21.8 3.0    731.B   1.6        613.9  16.L        11.0
R*010 14OWlQltt                         50.3 34.2       94.9 14.6        1.8  1.2    146.9  0.4        131.6    IS. 2        -
3iSCE1tLtL* US EOUIPNENT              9375.3 682       402.0 2& t1       3.5 3.7  1.431.3  S. 6      1.135.2   2M.1          -
5*-Tot.l tolPRNtt                      5.0732 52.7    4.358.8  45.3    188.8 2.0   9.518.9 24.2    8.220.7  1.387.2           11.0
0. VETERIIU*  03i06i                    2,441.4 95.5          -    -    1.7 4.5  2.5661    6 .4    2.449.4   116.t              -
. IEDIICAL tSMSSIStOC                   1,873.7 79.4      438.0  20.6         -   -  2.,53.7  5.9    2.2.9    66.8              -
r. TRAINING Amo St1itDtt                1.248.2 S1.t      24.0  17.9        S.6 0.4  I.S21.t  3.6    t.246.4   251.4            -
G. FIL MM LUNRIC13TS                    1.291.7 25.     1.746 0 34.4  2,030.5 40.0  5,07S.2  12.7    2.57 L2   467.5  2.030.5
V3. FAIN IVPUTS
SEED                                   3*8 0 20.9          -    -  1. 164. t 79.3 t ,472.1  3.7        307.5  1.164.5        -
EERtILIfER          .                      -   -       212t6  9.         0.5  0.2    213.1  0.5        202.8    10.3         -
t^tER fARU INPUTS                       38L0  56       394.4  89.1       7.3  1.?    439.7  1.1        360.8    7B.9         -
5*-Total FAIN INPUTS                      346.0 t6.3       0.3 2 %8.6  t. 171.9 S5.2  2. 124.8  5.3       871.1  1.253.7        -
1. OTNER OPEQUTINO EXPEuSES             t.448.7 51.3      764.2  27.0    813.4 21.7  2,826.3  7.1         938.6 B.887.7         -
total Olsbwtapot                         t9.635.2 49.5   15.627.3  33.2  4.500.? 11.3  39.823.2 100.0   28.934.9  8,846.   2.041.5
S.pt*ot 14. t67  tk 22



Table 9
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Procurement Procedures a/
Item                 ICB      LCB    Other                 Total b/
--- US$ million)  --
A. Civil works c/                      4.5      4.4                   8.9
(3.4)                          (3.4)
B. Vehicles & spares          4.8                                     4.8
(2.6)                                   (2.6)
C. Equipment & spares         8.9               0.7 d/                9.6
(4.6)             (0.5)                 (5.1)
D. Veterinary drugs          2.6                                      2.6
(2.5)                                   (2.5)
E. Technlcal assistance                         2.4                   2.4
(1.9)                 (1.9)
F. Training and Studies                         1.5                    1.5
(1.2)                 (1.2)
G. Farm Inputs e/             0.6               1.5 f/                2.1
(0.1)             (0.2)                 (0.3)
H. Other operating                              7.9                   7.9
expenses                                    (2.7)                 (2.7)
I. Total                     16.9      4.5    18.4                   39.8
(9.8)    (3.4)   (6.5)                 (19.7)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
IDA Includlng estimated breakdown of unallocated amount shown in
Table 10.
h/  Figures may not add to total due to rounding.
c/ US$5.2 million would be funded by the AfDB; works costing US$4.4
million would be done by the NWC on force account.
d/  It is estimated that 50% of workshop, radio and miscellaneous equipment
totalling $0.7 million would be purchased through LIT or local
purchasing procedures.
e/ Includes pestlcides, seed dressing, seedllngs.
f/ Improved seeds would be purchased from contract growers primarily
through proceeds from cost recovery.
Note: The Water Supply and Agricultural Services components would be
entirely funded by the AfDB and the GOS.



Table 10
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCEEDS OF THE IDA CREDIT
Category                  IDA Credit Amount       X of Expenditures
(US$ '000)
1.  Civil Works                     3,000           902
2.  Machinery & Equipment            4,500           100l   of foreign
expenditures and
802 of local
expenditures.
3. Vehicles and Spares               2,200           100% of foreign
and Draft Animals                              expenditures and
802 of local
expenditures.
4.  Veterinary Drugs                 2,200           1002 of foreign
expenditures, 1002 of
local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and
702 of local
expenditures for other
itemas procured locally.
5.  Technical Assistance             1,700           1002
6.  Training and Studies             1,000           1002 of foreign
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures.
7. Farm Inputs (Improved Seeds,
Seedlings and Seed Dressing)
7a.                             75           1002
7b.                            225           152
8. Operating Expenses
8a.                            800           802
8b.                          1,100           452
9.  Refund of PPF                    1,050          Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.02(c) of the
Credit Agreement.
10. Unallocated                      1,850
TOTAL                            19,700
Note: IDA would not finance expenditures related to the Water Supply and
Agricultural Services components which would be funded entirely by
the AfDB and the GO.



Table 11
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
OJS '000)
IDA FY and Quarter                    D i s b u r s e m e n t s
Quarterly  X of Total       Cumulative  % of TotaL
FY 1988
March 31, 1988               640          3.2             640        3.2
June 30, 1988 a/            900           4.6          1,540         7.8
FY 1989
September 30, 1988          900           4.6          2,440        12.4
December 31, 1988           900           4.6           3,340       17.0
March 31, 1989              900           4.6          4,240        21.6
June 30, 1989             1,100           4.6          5,340        27.2
FY 1990
September 30, 1989        1,100           5.6          6,440        32.8
December 31, 1989         1,100           5.6          7540         38.4
March 31, 1990            1,100           5.6          8,640        44.0
June 30, 1990             1,150            5.6         9,790        49.8
FY 1991
September 30, 1990        1,150           5.8         10,940        55.6
December 31, 1990         1,150           5.8         12.090        61.4
March 31, 1991            1,150           5.8         13,240        67.2
June 30, 1991               580           5.8         13,820        70.2
FY 1992
September 30, 1991           580          2.9         14,400        73.2
December 31, 1991           580           2.9         14,80         76.2
March 31, 1992               580          2.9         15,560        79.2
June 30, 1992               500            2.9        16,060        81.7
FY 1993
September 30, 1992          500           2.5         16,560        84.2
December 31, 1992           500           2.5         17,060        86.7
March 31, 1993               500          2.5         17,560        89.2
June 30, 1993               350            2.5        17,910        91.0
FY 1994
September 30, 1993          35U           1.8         18,260        92.8
December 31, 1993           350           1.8         18,610        94.6
March 31, 1994 b/            350          1.8         18,960        96.4
June 30, 1994               350            1.8        19,310        98.2
FY 1995
September 30, 1994 c/       350           1.8         19,660       100.0
a/  About 1.0 million disbursed under thePPF
i/ Project ConpLetion Date
cl  Credit Closing Date



Table 12
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Membership of the Project Steering Committee
Agency                                     No. of Members
MOANR                                             1
MOFEP                                             1
MAR
ABS                                               1
NWC                                               1
ARC/WSARP
RBPC                                              1
PMU                                               1
Membership of the PMU Advisory Committee
Agency                                       No. of Members
Project Management Unit                           1 (Project Director)
Regional Government                               2 a/
NMFU                                             2
WSARP (Kadugli)                                   1
ABS (Southern Kordofan)                           1
NMAC                                              1
NMRDP                                             1
AMS                                               1
NWC (Kadugli)                                     1
aI/ One person would be the Governor of Kordofan or his representative.



Table 13
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Aricultural Development Project
mCrueotal Agroltural PrWjection free the Project - TOTAL
......... . .......... ........ . .....
Icrop  int  000 tans - mnisals in  000 h adt
Pyt      PY2       PTA3       n.       PY5       PY6       PY 7      Ph I      P9   p91t
1. lkter mply cuopmt 1/
@rgh                          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.34      0.56      1.28      2.00       .66      2.t       2.6
Gillet                        0.00      0.00      0.00      3.13      8.55     19.4      30.44     40.36     40.36     40.36
frovmdat                      0.00      0.00      0.00      O.68      1.13      2.57      4.01      5.31      5.31      5.31
co"     eisc.                 p.e.      p.O.      p.O.      P..       p..       p..O.     p.e.      p.m.      p .       p.$.
cattle                        0.00      0.00      0.00      2.66      4.44     :0.11     15.79     20.94     20.94     20.94
shel    t "oats               0.00      0.00      0.00      6.14     10.22     23.30     24.38     48.23     48.23     48.23
2. Agricultural  mvelont Compet 2)
wrshua                        0.00      4.63     10.04     18.33    29.29    42.89       57.2,4    70.9t    79.31      82.6
dillet                        0.00      0.15      0.15      2.12      4.48      7.75     11.25     14.19     16.21     17.0O
Mtuma                         0.00      0.13      0.48      1.27      2.19      3.61      4.49      4.71      4.71      4.71
seed-ctteo                    0.00      1.10      1.13      1.92      3.14      4.45      5.27      6.11      6.97      8.20
groudnUt                      0.00      0.06      0.35      O.89      1.68      2.64      3.54      4.12      4.40      4.4
coupsa A  ist.                p.O.      P.&       p.m.      p.m.      p.A.      p..       P.&.      p.s.      p...      p.o.
fruit                         0.00      0.00      o.00      0.03      0.08      0.15      0.34      1.45      3.66      6.31
P1 20:    29.02
3. LUmtack service  casemt
cattle (equivalent)           0.20      1.72      3.24      5.87      7.92      8.02      3.02      8.32      9.02      8.02
TOTA. IINE    t.L PfUhT1S
Iworh                         0.00      4.63     10.04     18.6      29.08     44.17    59.24      73.oS     81.97     95.26
fillet                        0.00      0.15      0.75      7.25     13.03    27.24      41.49     54.55     56.5      57.43
seamo                         0.00      0.13      0.48      1.27      2.19      3.61      t 4.49    4.11      4.71      4.71
*d-cetten                     0.00      1.10      1.13      1.92      .14       4.45      '.27      6.11      6.97      8.20
Irwu6n t                      0.00      0.06      0.35      1.S 7     2.01      5.    1   .55       9.43      9.71      9.71
tllops  I *itc.               p.O.      p.G.      P.O.      p.O.      P.O.      P.°.      P..       P.o.      p.O.      p.A.
fruit                         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.03      3.09      0.15      3.54      1.6S      3.66     6.31
;Y 20      :9.42
cattle                        0.20      1.72      3.24      8.53     12.36    18.13      :3.s1     28.96    26,9       18.
sep I goats                   0.00      0.00      0.00      6.14     1O.22    :3.30       3.3      48.23     48.23    4*.23
........       ..     ....------ -  -.-- - -------------              .............................
If Ptf  the leOfVA   tal ptS fU   tte teter  toll co_pant  ass not £spwcW to  pdofAl                        tim, tjt to
luau awid throug uatuyud aolotomacIga
21 ladel   agriclteral  zwt  s ce ua oa riWclturel eutassa  I  asputs (Iucl.iig see  eroctoo, Plant protetion, of
hmtUulltrel.



Table 14
Scitbern KDrdofan Agricultural Development Project
Projected GDverrmeat Cash Flow
('000 LSd)
Outflow              1       2      3      4    5       6       7     8      9       10    11    12    13    14    15
1. Project           864  7875 3118    3730 4725 5778            -      -      -       -      -      -      -     -    -
EIitures
2.Equlpment            -      -    -         -    -       -      -      -      -       -   1820  2015  3027   2562 2190
Peplacement
3. Recurrent Cbsts a/  -      -    -         -    -       -   4020  4020  4020   4020  4020  4020  4020  4020 4020
4. Debt Service
IDAk
- 0omitmert fee b/  348   248   145         93   48    16         -      -     -       -      -      -      -      -
-  Service charge/   143   292   447    525  593   641    665   665   665    665   651   638   626   613  601
- Repayment of
Prircipal d/       -      -    -         -    -       -       -     -      -       -1773 1737 1702 1668 1634
AfDB
-  Service charge e/  36    132   242    341  435   527    527   527   527    527   522   517   512   507   502
- Repayment of
Principal f/       -      -    -         -    -       -       -     -      -       -    703   696   689   682  676
Tatal Outflos      1391  8547   3952   4689  5801  6962   5212  5212  5212   5212  9489   9623  10576  10052 9623
IDf low
1. Import tax on     315  1282  1800   2196 2484  2745   2745  2745   2745   2745  2745  2745  2745  2745 2745
fuel
2. Sales tax on crops  0    339   351    664  1044  1700   2367  2367   2367   2367   2367  2367  2367  2367  2367
and livestock gf
3. ABS rppayment h/    -      -    -         -    -   1699   1699  3226  3226   3226  3226  3226  3226  3226 3226
4. AMS repaymat                     -        -         1242   1242  1242  1242   1242   1242   1242  1242  1242  1242
Total Inflows        315   1321  2151   2859  3528  7386   8053  9580  9580   9580  9580  9580  9580  9580 9580
Net Cash FlOW    (1,076) (7226) (1801) (1829)(2273)  424   2841  4368  4368   4368    91   (43)  (996) (472) (43)
a/  100OY of current expenditures for activities indtiated through the Project in Extension and Road Infrastructuire and 5r/.
of Plant Protection and Hbrticulture.
b/ 1/2 of 1% per year of uidxisbursed credit amount.
C/ 3/4 of 1Y per year of disbursed credit outstardikg.
d/  10 years grace, 2% per year of awunt outstanding years 11-20, 47% per year of amount outstardirg years 21-40.
e/ 3/4 of 17% per year on credit disbursed and outstandirg.
f/ 1% per year oa credit outstarding for years 11 through 20 and 37% per year for years 21 through 50.
g/ Assairg that 157% of inreremental crop production would be marketed through auction markets and taxed at 10%/ of value, and
5(0 of aximals marketed wuk be taxed at an average of LiS l0/anlmal (US$4/animal).
h/ Repaid in 20 years includirg a 5 year grace period at 137. per year.(LSd6.7 m borrod in FYI and LSd6.1 m in PY3).
_/ Repaid in 20 years ircludiig a 5 year grace period at 19% per year.



Tablel5
Page  1 of  2
<                                      ~~~~~~~~SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
7/                           Farm Model - Traditional' Clay Soil Household
A. Cropping pattern (Id)
_._..................... .
Sorghuo                          3.7
Cotton                           1.0
Sesame                           1.0
CouP.a                           1.0
total                            6.7
+ Jubraka                        0.3 (hooe-garden)
+ livestock                     p.o.
B. Labor Supply/De2and Balance (hours)
TOTAL    lAR    APR    MAY    JUN    JUL    AUS    SEP    OCT    NOV    DEC    .AN    FEB
Supply 2/  : l4AX11lU              8454    718    695    718    695    718    719    695    718    695    718    718    648
ININIUg              5630    478    463    478    463    478    478    463    478    463    478    47a    432
Deuand - current practice 'l
livestotk                     940      80      77     80      77      80     80      77     80      77      80     80      72
jubraka                        186                     18     41      97      8      14       8
sorghum                      954.6    0.0    0.0   40.0   82.1  184.3  202.0   93.2   64.4   51.1  135.4   79.9   22.2
cotton                       241.8   10.8   10.8    0.0    6.6   54.6   43.8   23.4    0.0   26.4   39.6   25.8    0.0
sesal.                       200.4    0.0    0.0   22.2   33.0   60.6   16.8    5.4   38.4   24.0    0.0    J.0    0.0
coupea      *                291.6    0.'    0.0    6.6   55.2  101.4   47.4   16.2   28.8   16.2    6.6    6.6    6.6
total                   2814.4   90.8   87.8  164.8  294.9  577.9  398.0  229.2  219.6  194.7  261.6  192.3  100.8
Deficit Ioin.supply)             -                                   100      -       -       -      -       -      -       -
(ea.suwply)                            -       -      -       -       -
NO HIRED LABOR NECESSARY
Desand - u/full package 3/
livestock                      940     80      77     80      77      80     80      77     8"      77      80     80      72
jubraka                        186                     18     41      91      8      14       8
sorghua                     1201.8    0.0    0.0   44.4   91.3  204.7  224.5  103.6   71.5   81.7  216.7  1' 27.9           5
cotton                       307.7   12.2   12.2    0.0    7.5   61.9   49.6    6.5    0.0   39.6   !9.4   38.7    0.0
sesame                       242.2    0.0    0.0   25.4   37.8   69.4   19.2    6.2   51.8   32.4    ^.'    ).0    ,.0
co*pea                       2?1.6    0.0    0.0    6.6   55.2  101.4   47.4   16.2   28.8   16.2    6.6    6.s    6.6
total                   3169.,   92.2   89.2  174.4  309.7  14.4  428.7  243.5  2;0.2  246.9  562.7  :'S.:  1I4.1
Deficit fain.supply)             -       -      -       -      -    IJ6                   -       -          -      -       -
(4ax.supply)
'J0 HIRED L19OR NECESSA.Y



Table 15 -
Page 2 of 2
C. Cash Incose (Lid/household)
area          Yield (kg/fd)               Price          Value of prodn (Lsd)
(fd)   curr.pract.    full package   (Lsd/ton)  curr.pract.    f%ll package
....---  ...... .......                         ............ ................. ... ..
Crop production
jubraa                 03              p.o.            p.o.        A.A.             p.o.            po.n
sorghus                 3.7             300             480         400           444.00          710.40
cotton                 1.0            112.5          168.75         755            84.94          127.41
s5  aae                 1.0             130           175.5         790           102.70          138.65
coopea                  1.0            p.t.            P.O.        p.m.             Plot            P...
Livestock production        p.m.            p.o.             p.m.        P.m.            p.m.             p.O.
Bross incose froa crops  4/                                                            631.64           976.45
Hooe consumption estisaie  5/                                                          400.00           400.00
Gross cash incose froe crops  4/                                                       231.64           576.45
Cost of production   61
seeds                                                                               9.13           13.69
seed dressing                                                                       1.50            3.43
hand tools                                                                          1.82            1.82
spray                                                                               6.15            6.15
sackslstring                                                                       25.80           39.88
cartage                                                                            57.50           91.65
hired labor                                                                         0.00            0.00
total cost                                                                        101.90          156.63
Met cash income from crops  4/                                                         129.73           419.83
incresental                                                                                    290.09
I/ All crops are cultivated sanually.
2/ Labor supply estimated on the basis of an average of aboLt 5-6 persons per iousehold, which includes about 3 adult
equivalent workers (including tontribution of adolescents anG children . The basic workday is 6 hours, with
a 6 days working week (miniouo supply) ; during peak periods, the uorkday can be extended to 9 hours (aaaiaum supply).
3  For details, see table 12. Benefits have been quantified only for uain crops (sorghum, cotton and sesame). Full package includ
seed dressirg (except for cotton, for which it is already practiced), isproved seeds and improved cultural practices.
4/ Sorghum, cctton and ses ne only.
5/ I ton of ,rain (sorghum) per household of 5-6 persons.
6/ For details, see tables 4, 6 and 8.



V'Y                                                                                Table 16.
C"v cA    IPage 1 of 2
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Farm Model - Mechanized    Clay Soil Household
A. Cropping pattern (td)
Sorghum                         13.0
Cotton                          11.0
Sesame                           9.0
Coupea                            1.0
total                           34.0
+ jubraka                        0.3 (hooe-garden)
+ livestock                     p.A.
B. Labor Supply/Deeand Balance (hours)
TOTAL    MAR    APR    HAY    JUN    JUL    AU6    SEP    OCT    NOV    DEC    JAN    FEB
Supply 2/  : HAIIAUH                8454    718    695    718    695    718    718    695    718    695    718    718    648
MINIMUM              5630    478    463    478    463    478    478    463    478    463    478    478    432
Oemand - current practice 31
livestock                      940      80      77     90      77      80     80      77      80      77     80      80      72
Jubraka                        186                     18      41      97      8      14       8
sorghum                     1450.8    0.0    0.0   54.6   31.2   85.8  210.4   46.8    0.0  202.8  436.9  249.6  124.8
cotton                      2112.0    0.0  118.8  244.2  118.8  171.6  396.0   52.8    0.0  290.4  435.6  283.8    0.0
sesame                       901.8    0.0    0.0   37.8   21.6   48.6  162.0   70.2  345.6  .16.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
compel                       154.2    0.0    0.0    6.6   23.4   25.2   18.0   16.2   28.8   16.2    6.6    6.6    6.6
total                    5744.9   80.0  195.8  441.2  313.0  508.2  882.4  277.0  462.4  802.4  959.0  620.0  203.4
Deficit (oin.supply)              -         -                   -   30.2  404.4        -       -  339.4  481.0  142.0         -
(aax.supply)             -      -       -       -      -       -  164.4       -       -  107.4  241.0        -       -
NEED FOR HIRED LABOR : hours              512.8
eq. days           85.466
Deaand - w/iull package './
lifestock                      940      80      77     80      77      80     80      77      80     77      80      80     72
jubraka                        186                      1a     41      97       8     14       8
sorghum                     2839.2    0.0    0.0  152.1   86.9  239.0  609.4  13v.4    0.0  324.5  693.9  399.4  199.7
cotton                      3276.9    0.0  189.9  390.4  199.9  274.t  633.1   64.4    0.0  43  6  653.4  425.7    0.0
sesame                      1638.4    0.0    0.0   97.8   55.9  125.7  41j.1  181.6  466.6  291.6    0.0    0.0    0.0
cowpea                       154.2    1.0    0.0    6.6   2'.4   25.2   18.0   16.2   23.8   16.2    6.6    6.6    6.6
total                    9034,7   80.0  266.9  744.9  474.1  841.3i 1766.7  503.6  583.4 1144.9 1438.9  911.7  279.3
Deficit ,Gin.supply)             -       -    -    266.9   11.1  363.3 1288.7   40.6  105.4  631.9  060.9  433.7              -
toal.supply)             -      -       -   26.5       -  123.3 1G44.7                - -49.9  '20.9  193.7
t.EED F:R HIf.ED LABOR : hcurs             2'63
eq. cays           427.22



Table 16
Page 2 of 2
C. Cash Income (Lsd/household)
area         Yield (kg/td)               Price          Value of prodn (Lsd)
(fd)   curr.pract.    full package   (Lsd/ton)  curr.pract.    full package
Crop production
jubraka                0.3            p.m.            p.A.        p.m.            p.m.             p.A.
sorghum               13.0             300              460        400         1560.00          2496.00
cotton                l1.0           112.5          168.75         755          934.31          1401.47
sesime                 9.0              130           175.5        790          924.30          1247.81
coxJpea                1.0            p*&.             p.O.       p.O.             p*.m            p.m.
Livestock production        p.m.            p.O.            p.D.        p.m.            p.m.            p.A.
Bross incose from crops  4/                                                          3418.61         5145.27
Rose consu6ption estimate  Sl                                                         400.00          400.00
Bross cash income from crops  4/                                                     3018.61         4745.27
Cast of production 6/
mech. land prep6ration                                                          813.16           873.18
seeds                                                                            64.81            97.17
seed dressing                                                                    16.50            24.55
hand tools                                                                       10.56            10.56
spray                                                                            67.65           67.65
sacks/string                                                                    169.00           256.00
cartage                                                                         215.00          342.00
hired labor (Lsd 3.0/workday)                                                   256.40         1281.66
total cost                                                                     1673.10         2952.77
Net cash income from crops  4/                                                       1345.51         1792.50
incremental                                                                                  446.99
1/ nechanized land preparation for main crops (sorghum, cotton, sesame).
21 Labor supply estinated on the basis of in average of *bout 5-6 persons per household, which includes about 3 adult
equivalent workers (including contribution of adolescents and children). The basic workday is 6 hours, with
a 6 days working week (minimus supply) ; during peak periods, the morkday can be extended to 9 hours iraxious supply).
3/ For details, see table 13. Benefits have been quantified only for main crops (sorghum, cotton and sesame). Full package includ
seed dressing (except for cotton, for which it is already practiced), improved seeds and improved cultural practices.
4/ Sorghum, cottor. and sesame only.
S/ I ton of gfair (5orghua) per household of 5-6 persons.
6/ For details, ;ee tables 5, 7 and 9.



e-lo   el                                                              j~~~~~~~~~~~~able 1
vA                                      ~~~~~~~~SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Sricutural D                                     Project
Farm Model - Traditional .' Q   Soil Household
4. Croppiq pattern (fd)
lNallet                           5,4
Sorghu.                           0.
Groundnut                         3.0
?Usceflaeoug            l         1.0 (so100, osmsa, okra, etc...)
total                             9,9
+ livestock                      P.:.
B. Labor 8upplyonanG  Balantt  Ihoun)
TTAX      UR    APR       Ay    jUN    JUL    AIUG    SEP    OCT         ofI   DEC    JdV    FEB
sqp1S1 t  .i im                   11271    957    927    9          927    957    957    927    9SJ    921    957    957    U64
ltIINUH               7533    637    4167    67    61?    641    637    617           57    617    637    637    576
Deimand - current practice 31
livestock                 -                                    separately from cropping ste--
millet                      1056.2    0.0    0.'0  204.1  207.4   74.5  233.3  158.8  178.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
sorqhu                        129.0    0.0    0.0   18.6   19.8    6.6   21.9   29.4   32.7    0.0    0.0    0.3    0.0
groundaut                    586.8    0.0    0.0  113.4  115.2   41.4  129.6   88.2   99.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
liscell*tWus                18.0    0.0    0.0   38.4   58.4   14.4   43.8   30.0   33.0    0.0    0.0    %.0    A.0
total                   1l7OA0    0-0    0.0  374,3  380.8  13a-9  428.6  30o.4  342.9    O.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Deficit (Sin.Supply)                                                                                    -              -       -
(84I.supply)             -       -      '               -       -       '      -       -       '       *      -       -
NO NtEi FOR HIRED LAIR
Demand - /lfull package 31
tI estork                       f-----------------run separately from cropping syste.----------------------------
silUet                       1327.8    0.0    0.0  256.6  260.1   93.7  293.2  199.6  224.0    0.0    0.0    ?               0.0
sorghue                      162.4    0.0    0.0   ZS.4   24.7    Q.3   27.6   37.0   41.2    0.               .0    0.0      .0
groundnut                    692.2    0.0    0.0  1V35.   135.9   48.8  152.9  104.0  *U.9    0.0              .Q 8.C    S.O
miscellaneou     .           198.0    0.0    0.0   38.4   38.4   14.4   43.8   3O.0   13.0    0. )    'f,     ,              0.0
total                    2580.1    0.0    0.0  452.2  459.?  IS5.2  " 7.5  370.6  414.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    i.
Deticit (4in.supplyj                      -      -
(aaQ.s pP1F-HIRED LAHR
sQ  ;tgfO. HIR£D LAb,CR



. Table 17
Page 2 of 2
C. Cash IOcon (Led/household)
at".          Tield (Wfd)                 Price         Val"  of pda (Lod)
(fd)   corr.pract.    fill pckage   (lkd/tom)  corr.pract.            ll pCKage
..... .......    . .. ....... ..            ------          ..... .. .. .. .  
Crop productioA
millet                 5.4              200             360         440          4Th.20          #5.36
sorghu                 0.5             300              410         400           60.00           11.00
groundnut              3.0              250             350         450          331.50         412.50
milcellaneous          1.0            P.m.             p.m.       P.D.             p.m.            P.D.
LivestoCk production        P.D.            P.D.            P.m.        P.m.            p.m.            P.D.
Gross income from crops  4/                                                            72.11         1423.86
lone consuaption erstiate  5/                                                         680.00          680.00
Gross cask income fro  crops  4/                                                       -1.30          543.86
Cost of production 6/
seeds                                                                             64.11           71.15
seed dressing                                                                      0.10           15.24
hand tool#                                                                         2.85            2.85
fertiliser                                                                         0.00           34.56
socks/string                                                                      31.20           57.56
cartage                                                                           66.l0          110.10
hired labor                                                                        0.00            0.00
total cost                                                                       16.96           299.46
let cash income from crops  4/                                                       -17t.26          244.40
inc erentl                                                                                   421.67
1/ All crops are caltivated manOally.
2/ haong pastorallt conuoities, families are csually more extded thu  is tke case for sedetary households. Labor
supply to estimated on the basis of am average of about 10-12 prnons pr housebold which, after allowing for the
demands of herding, includes 4 adult equivaleat  orkers available for aricaltural activities daring the cropping seaso.
The basic workday is 6 hours, with a 6 day. working wee  (miniu  suply1) ; durin  peak periods, the workday can be exteaded
to 1 hours (nilnu  supply).
3/ for details, see table 14. Benefits hav beea qtantified only for main crops (millet, sorgbhu nad grouadnut). full package
iacludes seed dressing, improved seeds and improved caltoral practices for all crops, plus phosphatic fertiliter oo millet.
B/ fillet, sorsgoh nad groundnut ooly.
5/ 2 tons of grain (aillet) per housthold of 10-12 perons.
6/ for details, see tables 4, 10 and 11.



Table t
Page 1 of 3
Mo6vd                             ~~~~~SUD>AN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Develoent Prcject
Farm Model - Establishment of a 5 Fd. Orchard
A, qango                               Year 0       Year        Y Year 2     sear 3      ,ear 4       YEar 5       ear 6  Year 7-30
'nvestoent (tsd/lrchard).
construction  ft fell                 9000
pump                                  6000 
seedlings  .1                            -          87      5     -
replacesent (10 )        .                           -        87.5            -            -           '            '           -
Operating costs (lsd/orchard)
pump operation (fuel)                    -         5000        5000         5000        5000         5000        5030         5000
(other)                 -        2500         2500        2500         2500        2S00         2500        2500
spraying  2/                             -         1190        1190         1190        1190         1190        1190         1190
labor  3/                                -         1200        1200         1200        1200         1200        :200        1200
Production (tons/orchard)                    -           -            -            -                    17.5           35          50
Revenue  4/ (fsd/orchard)                    0           0            0           0            0       26250        52500       75000
NET CASH FLO#                         (15,000)   (10,765)       (9,978)      19,890)     iy,890)    !6,360        42,610       65,110
Financial Rate nf Return  5/                38t
S. Guava                               Year 0       Year I      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Yeir S      Year 6  Year 1-12
Inwvstuent (Esd/orchard)
construction of well                  9000            -           -            -           -            -           -            -
pulp                                  6000            -           -            -           -            -           -            -
seedlings  1/                            -         975            -            -           -            -           -
replacement (101)                        -            -        97.5            '-                       -           -            -
Oparating costs (tsd/orchard)
pulp operation (fuel)                    -        5000         5000        5000         5000        5000         5000        5000
(other)                 -        2500         2500        2500         2500        2500         " 00        2500
spraying  2/                             -        2210         2210        221Q         2210        2210         2210        2210
labor  3                                 -        1200         1200        1200         1200        1200         1200        1200
Production (tons/orchard)                    -           -            -           -            7          '4                      Id 0
Revenue  4/ (EsdIorcharC)                    0           0            0           0)      14000        28000       40000    - 40000
NET CASH FLOW                         (15,000)   (11,e851    (11,008)   ,10,910)          3:90        I ,,09;       ,)90      29,290
Financial Rate of Return  5/"               25X



Tablel8
Page 2 of 3
C. Banana                            Year 0      Year ;      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
Investment (lsd/orchard)
construction of Nell                9000            -           -           -          -
pulp                                6000            -
seedlings  I/                      14000            -           -          -           -
replacesent (10%)                       -       1400            -          -           -
Operating costs (Esd/orchard)
pu9p operation (fuel)                   -       5000        5000        5000        5000
(other)                -        2500        2500        2500        2500
spraying  2/                            -      47600       47600       47600       47600
labor  3/                              -        3600        3600        3600        3600
Production (tons/orchard)                  -          70         100         100         100
Revenue  4/ ([sd/orchard)                  0       56000      80000       80000       80000
NET CASH FLO#                        ;29,000)     (4,100)    21,300      21,300      21,300
Financial Rate of Return  5/              26%
D. Grapefruit                        Year 0      Year i      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6  Year 7-12
Investment (£sd/orchard)
construction of well                9000            -           -          -           -           -           -           -
pulp                                6000           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
seedlings  1/                           -       1625            -          -           -           -           -           -
replacement (10l)                       -           -      162.5                       -           -           -           -
Operating costs l£sd/orchard)
puap operation (fuel)                   -       5000        5000        5000        5000        5000        5000        5000
(other)                -        2500        2500        2500        2500        2500        2500        2500
spraying  2/                            -       2210        2210        2210        2210        2210        2210        2210
labor  31                               -       1200        1200        1200        1200        1200        1200        1200
Product.on (tons/orchard)                  -           -           -           -       8.75        17.5           25         25
Revenue  4/ (isd/orchard)                  0           0           0           0      17500       35000       50000       50000
NET CASH FLOW                        .t$,;i)    i12,535)   (11,073)   (10,910)   (10,901)    24tO90          39,090      39,090
Financial Rats of Return  'J              .9'.



Table 18.
Pae 3 of 3
E. Lemon                             Year 0     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6  Year 7-12
Investment (lsd/orchard)
tonstructtion ot well               9000                      -           -          -           -
pulp                                6000          - 
seedlings  1/                          -        975           -           -          -           -           -
replaceoent (101)                                 -        97 S           -
Operating costs ILed/orchard)
puop operation (fuel)                  -       5000        5000        5000       5000        5000        5000      500
(other)                        2500        2500        2500       2500        2500        2500       2500
spraying  2/                           -       2210        2210        2210       2210        2210        2210       2210
labor  3/                              -       1200        1200       1200        1200        1200        1200       1200
Production (tons/orchard)                                        -           -       8.75        17.5          25          25
Revenue  4/ (lid/orchard)                 0           0          0           0       17500      35000       50000       500m0
NET CASH FLOW                       (15,000)   (11,895)   (11,008)   (10,910)   (10,901)    24,090         39,090      39,090
Financial Rate of Return  5/             281
1/ Densities per teddan and estimated real cost (un-subsidited) per seedling (Lsd) are as tollous
No trees/fd      Cost/seedling
tango                         35           5
guava                         65           3
banana                      1400           2
grapefruit                    65           5
leoon                         65           3
2/ Cost per tree of about led 3.4, twice a year (current charge by Plant Protection Service is Lsd 1.35 per tree,
which involves a subsidy of about 601).
3/ Assuwes one worker full time per orchard (Isd 100/month), except for banana (3 workers).
4/Farm-gate selling prices in tsd/ton are as follows
mingo                       1500
guava                       2000
banana                       800
grapefruit                  2000
lemon                       2000
5/ Calculated over productive life of 30 years for mango, 12 years for guava, 4 years for banana and
12 years for citrus.



Table 19
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Economic RLte of Return AlalyB is
1,98     1989     1990     1991    1992    1993     1994     1995     1996 1997-2007
ECONOHIC COSTS (LSd '100)
'ROJECT                    21174.0  27233.0  34315.0  23266.0 21272.0 20723.0  17539.0  17074.0  14991.0   12819.0
SN-FARM                      842.0  5027.0  7486.0  15528*0 25205.0 38319.0  46897.0  56898.0  60063.0  61572.0
TOTAL                       22016.0  32260.0  41801.0  38794.0 46477.0 59042.0  64436.0  73972.0  75054.0  74391.0
GROSS ECONOMIC BENEFIT        158*0   1377.0   7809.0  22522.0 38163.0 68667.0 100758.0 128561.0 141028.0  150044.0
VET ECONOMIC BENEFIT      -21858.0 -30883.0 -33992.0 -16272.0 -8314.0  9625.0  36322.0  54589.0  65974.0  75653.0
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streats
N.TOT                   25.2St



Table20
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural  Development  Project
Economic Rate of Return:   Sensitivity Analysls
-(                                             and Switching Values
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAMS AT A DICN    RATE OF 152
B.TOT      P 10Z      UP 20Z      UPW OZ   WA 10X   DMN 20Z   WON 50Z  LA  1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LA   YES
C.TOT          88,821.3   129,928.6  171,03519   294,357.6   47,714.1      6#606.8 -1160715#0   35.203.2  -11421.3  -51,964.4
UP 10X         56v596o2   ?7,703.5   138,810.7  262t132.5    15,489.0  -25,618.3  -148940.1        2v978.1   -43t646.4   -84v189.5
UP 202         24.371#1   65,478.4   106,585.6  229,907.4   -16,736.2  -57,843.4  -181.165.2  -29,247.1   -75,871.6 -116,414,6
UP s50        -72o304.3  -31.197.0    9,10.2   133,232.0  -113i411.; -1546518.8  -277,840.6  -125.922.5  -172.546.9  -213,090.0
DON 102       1214046.5  162.153,7  203,261.0  326,582,8   79,939.2   38,831,9  -84,489,8   67o428.3   20.803,8  -190739.2
DOUN 201       153.271,6  194t378.9  235,486.1  358,807.9  112,164.3   71.057,1  -52,264.7   99,653.4   53,028.9   12,485,9
8011-502      2494947*0  29h154.2  332,161.5  45Sp483.3  2084839.7  1601732#5   44,410.7  196328.8  149.704.3  109.161.3
LAS 1 YEAR            -           -           -          -           -           -           -   77,236.0   30.611,5   -9.931.6
LAG 2 YEARS           -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -   67,161.7   26Y618.7
LAG 3 YEARS           -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -          -   59.401,5
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREKAS
0,TOT     UP lOZ      U  202      UPSOZ 0   DM   lOX   DOlU 20Z    DOW  502  LAS I YEAR LAS 2 YEARS LA6 3 YEARS
C.TOT            25.284      29.209      32.809      42,278     20.915      15.892    -25.135       18.277      14.096     1t,373
UP 10%           21.335      25.284      28.867     38.178      16.869      11.593        NONE      15,267     11.689       9.387
UP 202           17.659      21.681      25.284      74.51v     13.014       7.316        NONE      12.461      9.457       7.556
UP 502            7.316      11.980      15.892     25,284       1.237      -8.939        NC.E       4,786      3.505       2,751
DONN 102         29.624       3.572      37.X5       46.936     25.284      20.395      -4.620     21.561      16,727      13.550
DM0Itl 201       34.510      38.532      42.278     52.331      30.136      25.294       3.762     25,214      19,646      15.971
DOilN '02        55.384      60.033      64.438     76.541      50.436      45,114      25.284      40.128     31.365      25.63
LAG 1 YEAR            -           -           -                      -                       -      254284     18.277      14.096
LAG 2 YEARS           -           -           -                                                         -      25.284      18,277
LAG 3 fEARS           -           -           -          -           -           -           -          -           -      25,284
SUITCHING h'ALUES AT 152
:lr8PMIS '   SUITCHING   PERCENTAGE
STREAM                VALUE        ,bALUE      CHANGE
P+TnT        "~~1  .'','0  32,27w51.26   -.1.61Z
C.T T            3T2,21.'v   411 0?2.60         27.56%
Nt Present Value at CCC 152 - % 9821.3
Intemal Patt of kturr.  25.3?
Coupom bvivelent Rate ot Re,jrr. G



Table 21
Page I of 2
SUDAN
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
AUSTRALIAN AGRICULTURAL CONSULTING AND MANAGEMENT COMPANY PTY, LTD. and
NEWTECH INDUSTRIAL AND ENGINEERING GROUP, LTD. Sou..;444^, ±uta1
DSttaq2hent.LxQlct;.^ M^x#8^gz ^gppt (Main Report and Two Annexes)
December, 1986.
CHECCHI & CO. Marketing Sudanese Gum Arabic in the U.S.A.; Facts and
Options, October 7, 1985.
JANSEN, Doris J.,            j.&;g, NA1Q. &
12Qi 85-i220/.,November, 1986.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
Agricultural Prices in Sudan: A Historical Review and Analysis,
1970-1984, December 1985.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
A W2.mi. c.ia, December, 1986.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, I
;fi9 1986.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
1Ik.IL2&.~ December, 1985.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, MbA
-QUDLain.a ~Rux~al. ~ev~o   1~t...44ect~. 14~4friata. J9.8~, nd.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, $
Kauiz.taina .Rurx.a1. ^gzeve.Loi^   . 4O.PACt ,.. .QzASt. Reahaili Ap  < P Final
Report, November, 1986.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,  .ka
January, 1987.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
,                                nd
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES,
iv Szdaa. 1985.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, Igpda
&u4A~bav.p~e~. $n.~guuduu1:. .~o4uctiou~4~. 4Jie ~ 19f~lt6Z-~l9~B2t8&. 1986.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, Zg^4
au4S~l.z~e.. iu.~tille~ Yzs~4 cia.oui. ~n. the &u4an~.. 1a6iIU-~~4, 1986



Table 21
Page 2 of 2
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, ;
and. ,hang~es.   ~S~ua .~niductio~. in. p~e.       ~             1986
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES, Egt
ad, Quam jAAG   It~~~~~~~~~~ 1986
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING,
, January 16, 1985.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING, Maii
January 4, 1985.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING, §
~ ,February 5, 1985
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING,   A
June, 1986.
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN, MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING, Strategy
for Development of Rainfed Agriculture, March 1986
HALCROW-ULG LTD, 9h1  MQUn4no |nraL D.v4omf.j4.t!4.OntSFt1
HELLAS INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS LTD, 
F',h,iS falPNiS1rnmnnt .nf    Ntika Mj£nnt Aiflf_ UII?Ai hov.Iftnm ~ P, January
1987 (Draft Final Report).
ITEN, OSWALD, ,                                            1379.
O*SMAN, A. Farag,                                        September 9, 1985
PEARCE, David, Na;nrA1Riprcg.i Mpglpt ifi                   July 1987.
Zahlan, A.B.,
1986



CHART 1
SWAN
Southem  Kordofan Agriculural Developmnnt Projct
Staff Apprasal Report
SKADP PROJECT ORGANIZATION
I__
SteerLng Comittee
_d r m                   Advisory Czttee|
.rp                         8%-                        ,                   i      .      a
> o abn*   tkd            , A_- pk  ;-%wwt     nMF
AgbdhuuMoab"lHm  M-NEt40l
0imoo'll   (MOAP"                                                 Old"isr



CHART 2
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT ORGANIZATION CHART
Director
Advisory
Director's    Board
Secretary
_                         |   Decto                                                          Financial                           Adrinistrative
XmpDementation                                                   Controller                            Controller
nl                 ~~~~~~Implementation                                                         o 
X   Civil           nma IIelt/          Systems           Maniagement         Accounting         Procuremient         Persomnel
Engineerng/         Arial Hethr        and Surveys        Development             and                and             onnication|
arm Machinery  Ag         Grow               ~~~Unit            Finance             Stores.an  Facflities
e1                                                                                                                              Advisory Board
Secretariat
o Based in Khartoun
1/ Technical Assistance
EK40054-2



22'             24-             26              2s               30-                              32-              36 
I 2,                    ARAB    REPUBLIC    OF   EGYPT                                                         2r
-22-* -*                                       **        *..         .    .     .     .                            ._.        ._-
Wadi Halfa
L  i B  Y  A           |->< 
\.          i                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N O:    .R  N   . C N
-20-       '                                                                      .                                                            20-
N 0 R T H E R3N                                                   PORT SUDAN
i1                                          DONGOLA
' i Kor*,no              <                   Tok
Ed IDebbo          A                 LA-rot
0  j           .            $                                        '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~AD DArOE"Ry  F-TE   NJ* |
C H A D                    C);T 7                                         R E G  i,'O  N J
J  Onodurnat,    KhA RU,-    DeKR Me'm   *<ASSAt
5     DN  0.  R  F  tS  xt         8               ' ' ' -' ' t - ^ \       /    >   \eRUFUA A               t
.1    DARFJS)                                                                                 WAD NkDANI
t44  >  oKotum     *\                                iDiUE1Ms \,        }' -gs         tl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEDAREF 
ELFASHER
.(GENEiNA              --ORDOt FANSHE                                nO1<GrJ0AN 
~3AHRL~EASTERN                                 i          \,>IN NAHU. CEN   I         FT   4.
4        G~HAZAl! BAHR FL (  ;I< r/W                      IE\uj                                 FT           .   



J  NAHUD       1\                -                                                  2 E
N                                                                            DA -  ;;UTHLEgN EORiOFAN  ,.MAZ,N
-'0~~~~~                                                             @~~~~LAKAL                                  DIA~~~ADMt
| ( 4.\ rc 1:~ G   I    N \ e  wl¢hg 
?      X,51  FQI         =T        -~ {T 'EF    NILE                          rAI     I
HAZAL   c   EL  AWf            / AW              REGION  \.  e _                                                  E 1
RAGA'V)C~                / 
CENTRAL                       0                        BUH YRA                            AkW
WAU                                   JONGLEI
| ~~~~A F R I C A N              9RUMBgea                                                            Post
\AHR EL GHAZAL   NME
REPU BLICEG IO                               N                OR
I               ~ ~~~~~R E P U  B L I C  A               x 
WESTERN   gr QUATORIA  REGION                   Kozoe
EQUAQR¾MOt~0J2JUBA@ *
yxmBi3O                   EASTERN (TORIT         ./ E       YA  3e
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                           Q Z AUATOREAT 
PROJECT AREA                                                          u G A    D A
pR RlICT   ARfA                                                                          Dct            AD A     a    -  0
O   SEtClEC TOWIOS AND VILLAGES
r     @   POVINCE CAPITALS
O   REGtON (IQtlm, CAPITALS
|  @   NAIIC                         ~ ~~~~~o IO0    2D0    300    400 K,Io°tf Sr                     T     A K       d   fl1P      o
o    NATIONAl CAPITAL                              020            3DE"K
I    - -- F*OvtNC B>lNDARES                    o                                                                     1 m            RE {tKEA| l
R I V R U SK M A R F S3                                                     2
|    q    ~~REGRON POLV  3llDfE
iN|AUIOt M = BOUNDASS  Oq_    At, 1 
SOURtCE OE AO0 AA        sw~  pN~Zr  .i3



2b°                                                                         2k8
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN                                                                                             N 0  R T I
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENIT
PROJECT
EXTENSION UNITS / TRANSPORT NETWORK
,      Main Extension Units
A      Extension Sub-Units                                                                            f
- -~   Main Roads, Paved                                                                             /   Deb          --
-12'                      Secondary Roods, Unsurfoced                                                                 J t                        /
Other Roads, Improved                                                     -.
Tracks/(
Railroads                                                                         igl el Fula
Rivers, Wadis                                                                                    . ,
District Boundaries
Province Boundaries                                                                                              L og togwo
ro Nyafo _                      Bbanu,s   -. so
-  International Boundaries
El Muglad A
, 20         40   sf  8,0 K ............om"ws .. .                                                                                          j
0            2b            50 Mile,                       
*trff  lav,,,4#-aW7 i'-~~.t'-~~-eo'                   .      ,E         L                F          U          L
jARAB REP. OF EGYPT
1I8YA
10                     \   ~~~~~~~oMeirwm
S~~~ - 3-        A '-       x 5*- .;N                                                                     ABYEI-SSE 5-^r-  r7 o O 
*~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Abvei,                                        7
SOUTHERN 
KORDOFAN'.
. f  -, 541.   4  <   z  1   .  .,- ^.  + :. ETHIOPIA
AL~~~
AFRICAN                                                                           I-ASTER~N
ARABBUC\    . \    \~                                        3AHR  H. GHAZALP O
AE   _        ,GANDAL KENYA                              To AA                   2           T- U K



IbRD 20630
30   ,,fEl Obeid
H               E  R  N           K            R  D                           F A  N                                                  Sn
-mm Ruwoba        -
Er Rahad  -       -H(
Oubeibat                                                                                      NILWHITE
0Siniikai                       -EI Absiyo 
%Kurtola    ) 
Dilling                           f2t
(                             ~~~~~~~~         ~~~~DoaJcmi  00  (Rashad
(ootSi  \  'Di 7  L i  V '4 G   2     \   °O-umbrembitao
<  ;   - -*0 oAbu Gubeiho
powa   {\           ---          
Heiban                 R       A       s       t       A
*   ;     ( R     'A  S  iH    A          
\ At Sauntin           Ko A    rD ti ( >;X , 
A vEI   k  '              Um Serdibbo                   AOKologi                                              /
Doreino,'
AEI                 Ur                  -                                                                      /
Oua    Taltodi
!>:/
El Leri /o
=--S<'                                                                                                                                       O
j \ ~~/,
UJ    P    P    E    R                          N                 L    E
Malakal0
-  Bentiv
3 ,0J                                                                   '.     32 -
JULY 1987



-     ~     26                                                                       218°
SUDAN                                                                                  N O  R T
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER MECHANiLED SCHEMES
a     Schemes                                                                                     / Dk
Main Roads, Paved
Secondary Roads, Unsurfaced                                                          = ii-
Other Roads, Improved                                            :
Tracks                             ;                           /
Railroads                                                     C/ igl el Fulk
Rivers, Wadis /
District Boundaries      |                         /
Provincte Boundaries                                      .                                             - 1~i Lagov
To Nyco i                 - -  Bobonuso                    ,
International Boundories
El Muglod
0     20   .40    60    80 A.elor.
t,           2            so50M.'es
5 X ! T H E ;N                       L                          U
ARAB REP OF EGYPT            1T                    r
I LIBYA                                               D A IruR \ R
-10'                            \    oMeirom
CHAD |
(II     ~~S U D AN   0- Khortoom                ~;                            -                        B     H* -
.   r   -   ,    S                                                          : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A B Y E I  -
SOUTHERNAbe
KORDOFAN
\   H-- .    ;  ETHIOPIA
CENTRAt  -         A'  LfM p,
AFRICAN                                                                       F ASTERN                               a>
REPUBLIC '
-~~~)   *   Y t\.                     / BAHR  EL  GHAZAL
ZAIRE       r                                                                            To Wo                      .
UGANDAL; KENYA                         To AweI               21V                                   ;    \



IBRD 20632
30'      El Obeid                                                    32
Kositi
5'H E R N/  K"   R D  O  F A  N   t                                                            ==/;W
Of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Wmm Ruwobo
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~ // 
/ r/n ~~~~~~~Er R  H ITd
Rahad  --                                  ~~WHITE
4.  g- ZDubeibot                                               ..2\                N  I L E
~~~~~~_~~~~s / °uniikoi      
,EI Abosiya                                         r
79Kurtol    i~ , 
/   @   R~~Dilling         ,-.Kroo      /     B     '                                      \                          )121-
owlI  z  '    .    '                o   , Rashod
- -Woli     [ [ t {t1\ (<   7        a   pumbrembita s
1   G~i 
|, .          3x  pAbu Gubeiha
f                       Hetbom'a
Abu  -  (adu Ii
S unun    0        @AL         IJ
Um Serdibboa       /ai
Umr
Doretno          f /                     -
A       -\.     <1 Burom  -@  %<Td ° Bu/
-                                                                      I   -  
El Leri
.                                     \N/
U    P    P    E    R                      N        I   L    E
Malakai ?
°08eertiu
JONGLEI
JULY 1987



SU D AN
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOMADIC MOVEMENT
HAAMAR Camel Own-ng .ribes
.......... Ratny Season
4---Gizu (Cool) Season
_-  Dry (Cool then Hot) Season
Cottle Owning Tribes
4- .......Rainy Season
4---Dry Season                    j          ARAB             REPUBLIC                OF            EGYPT
4_Beni Amer (Dec-Feb)
ZGRHAMA Tribes which Own Both                                            . -Q Wadi                             /
Camels ond Cattle                                                                      H i-iollfao r
Existing Railways
- Rivers 
---  Province Boundaries          j
*--     Internationol             .                                                                 I          \        R      r
- 20-        Boundaries     L I B Y AV   0   R C                      H        R    A/
_-.   9'          -                                                                  , -   -       S     E    A            2  Port  Sud
Karirra~
/sAtbara 
CHAD/ 
/     N    I1L \                           -A
Jf        \                   4; ifi                                          i D KRTOUt\                .
C~~~~                                            a A D                                          v. Airtt     
is.    ~ ~              /MEIDOB'  ~jKAAB                                    1S    H
Kt  A               d A I    H2 5, 
A W AORD                                             A~~-
QA    R  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ri                        N~~~~~~~~~~Ed~  Meari 
i                       ~~~~~~~~~~~A ea~rn  I
I  5    5                                                          (N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'~~~~~~~1~are/
genej' NP'                                                    AGNN                        -0 ' 
01  ~~~CElFasher
0!  S  K=,e,     ,  -,       \       9<  ! ~~Dubeibba                        ,            z>2       f   -*   
1-1           ^      I   KA >                  ALtqD\&IlM                 Roseires
N  I                                                               /V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



j  *  ; i//2 S iDOB # K | D~~~~~~~~~~~~~71, A    SH,\ I 1Z Y.K0sl;
,_  t  P  J  AH  f:F aN a X + 5 R a ,r hs¢ g fp ,> {G J RARTOU 
Q rA r t X 1 <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Om;     i/                            r   dw   eore
C~~~~~~~~ E7       43                      \                        5'.
A F R I C A N      ) BAHR a GHAZAL                             F   Au  N   Ed  Z                              W
REPUBLIC~                  ~~~ R F                             tL \_MetON L Fn
\.2__   -__}  BUEL=YRAr  '~~~Due,
__  _                                                         .;             Ainwle             i ~~~~~~~~~~Ole,9  
R~~~~~~~~~~Ks _                                       Z                                    Ui G> ADNbDA b
A,                                z         ,                             __ 



Fr            26°                                                               2r.°
SUDAN                                                                          NORT
SOUTHERN KORDOFAN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
WATERYARDS AND HAFIRS                                                                           N---
0     Wateryards
A     Hofirs to be Rehabilitoted                                                      I   .  O .
;r<-t- ?~Umm Ruwabo / Nubian Series                                                    f          --7
-12                   (Baggara sedimentary bosin in west)
1 Basement Complex (crystalline rocks)                                                         '1
Railroads N ^+';>................ .>
Rivers, Wadis                                     ,     ^*       <i>.                           .
Province Boundories              l^84       
_                   I    S C} LI T H E R N      ,X                      .-,, d        <        f- X;e-s~~~~~~I 
A7
8    1        t 9             l Railroadsh  ,                               e.    ;      FvI '5-s-
vJ  4I A ov  70 K  ,m 4 
~~~~Poic  onais                        .         /    0,,    h i   l- --'---9- -k  :D.
"  9 E~~~~SO THIOPANt
CENTRA>s o Ny ks 
AfReCANItenaioa Bonare \N                                                          "   STE     
ARABREPU8llCT                                                                            ' -
r       2Y     4    0    80                                             EL   GHAZ
CHAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
KOR D r OFA Eo                                                                          -:-
K c IRE        GAN     KENYA                     To Aed               28'
I                                               2 v  ,                           ,8\ _



IBRD 20631
't ~   3'0°   0E1 Obeid       -3l2OKosti
H E R N    K O R D O  F A N 
Umm Ruwoba   _   g
Er Rahad
WHITE
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sunpal,
*       A 8   >_.- ~   >Et Aboslya
A~~~~~~~~
t,  'Oumbremb;t  Ra5had
a                           0~~
=,,      'Auueh ..                                                                                     57 *-2.' m '"
*0~~~~
U U Srd          A            oAi -A
U P                   PE    R                 N    I   I   E
. s 0 e , . -                                    -SXI
E- ter °:\! 
B&nI '    8 Eu -u
>>   U   P   P-+.E   R ~J C N G Lt EE
' -. ,i-           /             JONGLEI
30'                                                         3,2Y
JULY 1987



