Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1867 SU
       (Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
            AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY SERVICES CORPORATION
                      Dated February 4, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1867 SU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February  4,  1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (the   Association)   and  AGRICULTURAL
MACHINERY SERVICES CORPORATION (AMS).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The  Republic  of  Sudan  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR  15,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that AMS  agree  to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and AMS,  part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to AMS on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS AMS, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. AMS declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out Part H of the
Project with due diligence and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial,  engineering  and agricul-
tural practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for Part H of the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part H of the Project,  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. AMS shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part H of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  AMS  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, AMS shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) AMS shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part H of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  AMS shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Part H of the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the  performance  by  AMS  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. AMS shall prepare and submit to PMU annual work
programs in accordance  with  the  provisions  set  forth in para-
graph 5 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.07. AMS shall charge  full costs to the farmers for
tractor services.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of AMS
     Section 3.01. AMS shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
Page  3
engineering and agricultural  practices  under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. AMS shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property and, from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
     Section 3.03. AMS shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  AMS  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  AMS shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements, as well  as  the  audit thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of AMS  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the  date  twenty  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
AMS of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
Page  4
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For AMS:
          c/o Ministry of Agriculture and
              Natural Resources
              P.O. Box 285
              Khartoum
              The Republic of Sudan
          Cable address:
                ZIRAA
                Khartoum
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of AMS may be taken or executed by the Manager
or such other person or persons  as the Manager shall designate in
writing, and  AMS  shall  furnish  to  the  Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
Page  5
                    AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY SERVICES CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Salah Ahmed
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $30,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $250,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $150,000  or  more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Page  6
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of fifteen  percent  (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist AMS in carrying out Part H of the Project,
AMS shall employ  an  engineering consultant whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultant shall be selected
in accordance with principles  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
