Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1867 SU
       (Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
                       THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 4, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1867 SU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February  4,  1988,  between THE REPUBLIC OF
SUDAN (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the African Devel-
opment Bank (AfDB) a loan (the  AfDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to sixteen  million  eight  hundred  and  fifty  thousand Units of
Account (UA 16,850,000) to assist  in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the AfDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB;
     (C)  Part G  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) and  Part H of the Project by the
Agricultural  Machinery  Services   Corporation   (AMS)  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to ABS and AMS, respectively, part of
Page  2
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreements of even  date  herewith between the Association
and ABS and AMS, respectively;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "ABS Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Association and ABS of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the ABS Project Agreement;
     (b)  "AMS Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Association and AMS of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the AMS Project Agreement;
     (c)  "ABS Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between the  Borrower  and ABS pursuant to Section
3.O1 (c) (i) of this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and  such  term  includes  all  schedules to the ABS
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "AMS Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the Agreement to
be entered into between the  Borrower  and AMS pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the AMS Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated November 22, 1987 and December 11,
1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (g)  "Project Area" means the Southern Kordofan Province; and
     (h)  "Sudanese Pounds"  and  "LS"  mean  the  currency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an  amount  in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Page  3
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Bank of
Sudan or a commercial  bank  authorized  by  the  Bank of Sudan on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prepa-
ration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1994,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies  as  may, from time to time,
be designated  or  selected  pursuant  to  the  provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  June 15 and December 15
commencing June  15,  1998,  and  ending  December  15, 2027. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
December 15, 2007, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Page  4
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end: (i)  shall carry out Parts A through F
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate  agricultural,  engineering,  administrative and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required for
Parts A through F of the  Project; and (ii) without any limitation
or  restriction  upon  any  of  its  other  obligations  under the
Development Credit Agreement, shall  cause  ABS and AMS to perform
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  respective Project
Agreements all  the  obligations  of  ABS  and  AMS, respectively,
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources  necessary  or  appropriate   to  enable  ABS  and  AMS,
respectively, to perform such  obligations,  and shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts A
through F of  the  Project  in  accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall:  (i)  relend,  out  of the proceeds
of  the  Credit,  an  amount   not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of
SDR 2,120,000 to  ABS  under  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement to be
entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and  ABS,  under  terms and
conditions which shall have  been  approved by the Association and
which shall include charges at  the rate of thirteen percent (13%)
per annum, repayment over  twenty  (20)  years, including five (5)
years of grace, and the foreign  exchange  risk to be borne by the
Borrower; and (ii)  make  available  out  of  the  proceeds of the
Credit an amount not  exceeding  the  equivalent of SDR 510,000 to
AMS on a  grant  basis  and  relend,  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit, an amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of SDR 830,000 to
AMS under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and AMS, under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  and which shall include charges
at the rate of  nineteen  percent  (19%) per annum, repayment over
twenty (20) years,  including  five  (5)  years  of grace, and the
foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ABS and
AMS Subsidiary Loan Agreements  in  such  manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit  and,  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the ABS and AMS  Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Page  5
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree:
     (a)  procurement  of  the   goods,   works  and  consultants'
services required for Parts A through  E  of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
     (b)  procurement of the  goods  required  for  Part  G of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions  of  the Schedule to the ABS Project
Agreement; and
     (c)  procurement  of  the   goods,   works  and  consultants'
services required for Part H of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit  shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the AMS Project Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  Without  any   limitation  upon  any  of  its
obligations under Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  open, not  later  than  April  15,  1988, and thereafter
maintain in a commercial bank  an  account  in  the name of PMU on
terms and conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association to be used
exclusively for  the  purpose  of  meeting  expenditures under the
Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
     (b)  in addition to  an  initial  deposit of 400,000 Sudanese
Pounds at the time of  the  opening of said account, make deposits
in said account so as  to  maintain  the  account at a level of at
least 200,000 Sudanese Pounds.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part G of the  Project  by ABS pursuant to Section 2.03
of the ABS Project  Agreement  and  in  respect  of  Part H of the
Project by  AMS  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  the  AMS Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare and furnish to  the  Association, not later than
June 30, 1991, the  study  reviewing  AMS' operations and possible
options for  the  participating  of  the  private  sector  in AMS'
operations; and
     (b)  exchange  views  with  the  Association  on  the  recom-
mendations of said study and a timetable for their implementation.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The  Borrower  shall  maintain, or cause to
be  maintained,  records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect, in
accordance  with  sound   accounting  practices,  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts A through F of the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special  Account,  the   account   referred  to  in
               Section 3.03  of  this  Agreement  and the separate
               accounts  to  be  established  by  the implementing
Page  6
               entities pursuant to the Implementation Program set
               forth in  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  ABS or AMS  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any of its
obligations under the respective Project Agreements.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make  it improbable that ABS or AMS
will be  able  to  perform  its  obligations  under the respective
Project Agreements.
     (c)  The Borrower's  Agricultural  Bank  of  Sudan Act, 1957,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived,
so as to affect materially  and  adversely,  the ability of ABS to
perform any of its obligations under the ABS Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower's  Act  No.  379  of  1987 establishing AMS
shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect  materially  and  adversely  the ability of AMS to
perform any of its obligations under the AMS Project Agreement.
Page  7
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ABS or AMS or for the suspension of their operations.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the AfDB Loan made to the Borrower
                    for the financing  of  the  Project shall have
                    been  suspended,  cancelled  or  terminated in
                    whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                    AfDB Loan Agreement; or
               (B)  the AfDB Loan shall  have  become due and pay-
                    able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.O1. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the ABS Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ABS;
     (b)  the AMS Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and AMS;
     (c)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  AfDB  Loan Agreement
(other than the effectiveness  of  this  Agreement) have been ful-
filled; and
     (d)  the Borrower has appointed a financial controller of PMU
acceptable to the Association.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Association:
Page  8
     (a)  that the ABS and  AMS  Project Agreements have been duly
authorized or  ratified  by  ABS  and  AMS,  respectively, and are
legally binding upon ABS and AMS, respectively, in accordance with
their terms; and
     (b)  that the ABS  and  AMS  Subsidiary  Loan Agreements have
been duly authorized or ratified by  the Borrower and ABS and AMS,
respectively, and are legally  binding  upon  the Borrower and ABS
and AMS, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box 2092
          Khartoum
          The Republic of Sudan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                EIMAR                           22324
                Khartoum
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                          By /s/ Salah Ahmed
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                          By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 2,270,000       90%
(2)  Machinery and               3,410,000       100% of foreign
     equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Vehicles, spare             1,670,000       100% of foreign
     parts therefor                              expenditures and
     and draft animals                           80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Veterinary drugs            1,670,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost) and
                                                 70% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(5)  Farm inputs                   230,000       100% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 60,000
                                                 and thereafter
                                                 15%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Consultants'                1,290,000       100%
     services
(7)  Training and                  760,000       100% of foreign
     studies                                     expenditures
                                                 and 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(8)  Operating expenses          1,440,000       80% up to an
                                                 aggregate amount
                                                 of SDR 610,000
                                                 and thereafter
                                                 45%
(9)  Refunding of                 830,000        Amount due pur-
Page  10
     Project Prep-                               suant to Section
     ration Advance                              2.02 of this
                                                 Agreement
(10) Unallocated                 1,430,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                  15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the  term  "operating   expenses"  means  operation  and
maintenance of buildings,  vehicles  and equipment, allowances for
housing and travel, and expenditures for office operation.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are:  (i) to establish a sound
institutional framework for  agricultural  development in Southern
Kordofan;  and  (ii)  to   improve   the  standard  of  living  of
smallholder farmers and livestock owners in this region.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Services
1.   Strengthening of the Provincial Extension Service through the
     construction of housing  and  office facilities, the acquisi-
     tion of vehicles, equipment  and fertilizer and the provision
     of training and consultants' services.
2.   Development of a comprehensive extension package and integra-
     tion of all extension services under the Provincial Extension
     Service.
3.   Support  of  the   Provincial  Plant  Protection  Directorate
     through  the  acquisition  of  pesticides,  sprayers, radios,
     camping equipment, the  rehabilitation  of storage facilities
     and the provision of training.
Part B:   Farm Inputs
1.   Improvement of  seed  production  through  the acquisition of
     processing  and  packaging  equipment,  foundation  seed  and
     incremental certified seeds,  the  construction of houses and
     acquisition  of  vehicles  for  staff  of  the  National Seed
     Administration.
2.   Increased production of  horticultural  seedlings through the
     rehabilitation  of  the   three  horticultural  nurseries  at
     Kadugli, Umm Berembeita and  Abu  Gubeiha and the acquisition
     of equipment and supplies.
Page  11
Part C:   Livestock Health
1.   Strengthening of  the  Veterinary  Services Administration in
     the Project Area through  the  acquisition of vehicles, field
     veterinary equipment, drugs and vaccines.
2.   Support of the veterinary laboratories  at El Obeid and Shoba
     through  the  acquisition  of  laboratory  equipment, vaccine
     bottles and bottle printing  equipment,  and the provision of
     training.
Part D:   Road Infrastructure
1.   Improvement of the feeder  road  network  in the Project Area
     and the acquisition of machinery and equipment therefor.
2.   Establishment and operation of a road maintenance unit in the
     Regional Public Works Department,  including the provision of
     training and consultants' services.
Part E:   Project Administration and Monitoring
1.   Strengthening of  the  Project  implementing agencies through
     the provision of training and consultants' services.
2.   Preparation of a  land  use  plan  based on environmental and
     economic criteria.
Part F:   Water Supply
1.   Rehabilitation of about 133 wateryards and 90 haffirs.
2.   Development and operation  of  a systematic wateryard mainte-
     nance program, including the  acquisition of vehicles, equip-
     ment and  spare  parts  and  the  provision  of  training and
     consultants' services.
Part G:   Agricultural Machinery
     Provision of credit  to  farmers  for  the  purchase of agri-
     cultural machinery.
Part H:   Agricultural Machinery Services Corporation
1.   Support of AMS  through  the  rehabilitation and expansion of
     workshops, the reconditioning  of  equipment, the acquisition
     of spare parts and the provision of training and consultants'
     services.
2.   Studies on the reorganization and the future status of AMS.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Page  12
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items  estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more per  contract,  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison of price quotations solicited
from a  list  of  at  least  three  suppliers  from  at  least two
different countries eligible  under  the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $300,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $150,000  or  more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of fifteen  percent  (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
Page  13
     In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out Parts A
through E of the  Project,  the  Borrower shall employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be   satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall  discharge  its responsibility for overall
Project  coordination  through  PMU.  PMU's  functions  shall,  in
particular, include to monitor,  evaluate  and provide feedback on
Project implementation progress,  to  provide supervision, support
and assistance to the  various  corporations and agencies involved
in carrying out the Project, particularly in financial management,
cost recovery and  procurement,  to  control  and account for, the
disbursement of Project-related funds, to oversee the training and
technical  assistance  aspects  of  the  Project,  to  manage  the
carrying out of the  studies  under  the  Project, to generate and
sustain commitments  to  the  objectives  of  the  Project  by the
central and regional  authorities,  and  to  coordinate with other
entities responsible for the  implementation  of other projects in
the Project Area.
2.   To carry out these functions, PMU shall be assisted by:
    (a)  an Advisory Committee  to  be  established not later than
May 31,  1988.  The  Advisory  Committee  shall  be  headed by the
PMU  Director  and  consist  of  representatives  of  the regional
government, the  Western  Sudan  Agricultural  Research Project in
Kadugli,   the   Project   beneficiaries,   the   Nuba   Mountains
Agricultural Corporation,  the  Nuba  Mountains  Rural Development
Project, the AMS and  the  National  Water Corporation in Kadugli;
its main function shall  be  to coordinate Project activities with
other on-going development efforts in the Project Area; and
     (b) a Steering Committee  to  be  established  not later than
May 31,  1988.  The  Steering  Committee  shall  be  headed by the
Undersecretary  of  the   Ministry   of  Agriculture  and  Natural
Resources and shall consist of  representatives of the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning,  the  Ministry of Animal Resources,
ABS, the National  Water  Corporation,  the Western Sudan Agricul-
tural Research Project, the  Roads  and Bridges Public Corporation
and the PMU Director; its functions shall be to ensure consistency
between  the  Project  activities  and  the  national  development
objectives and to generate support for the Project.
Annual Work Programs
3.   For each year of Project implementation, PMU shall prepare an
annual  work  program  containing  information  on  the  following
aspects:
     (a) an evaluation of the previous year's performance relative
to the objectives set for that year;
     (b) detailed objectives and targets for the following year;
     (c) a  description  of   the   activities   to  achieve  such
objectives, their expected output and relevant time frame;
     (d) significant constraints and risks;
Page  14
     (e) detailed investment and operating budgets;
     (f) staffing and training plans; and
     (g) a financing and procurement plan.
4.   PMU shall submit  this  consolidated  annual work program for
each fiscal year  not  later  than  March  1  of  each year to the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture  and  Natural Resources for its
approval and consideration in  the  preparation  of the budget for
the following year.  Following  its  approval,  the Borrower shall
submit the annual work program not later than July 31 of each year
to the Association for its review.
5.   In order to enable PMU  to prepare said annual work programs,
each entity involved in  carrying  out  Parts of the Project shall
prepare and submit  to  PMU  not  later  than  December 31 of each
year an annual  work  program  covering  the  items referred to in
paragraph 3 above as they  apply  to the respective entity and the
Part of the Project for which such entity is responsible.
Part A of the Project
6.   The Borrower's Ministry of  Agriculture and Natural Resources
shall be  responsible  for  the  carrying  out  of  Part  A of the
Project.  Before  any  pesticide  purchases  are  undertaken under
Part A  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  consult  with the
Association on the environmental aspects thereof.
7.   In order to  improve  the  extension  service provided in the
Project Area, the Borrower shall ensure that the Provincial Exten-
sion Service is adequately staffed,  that  the director is in post
not later than April 15,  1988,  and  that the field facilities of
the Nuba Mountains Agricultural  Corporation relating to extension
services are transferred to  the  Provincial Extension Service not
later than April 15, 1988.
8.   The Provincial Extension Service  shall prepare and submit to
PMU annual work programs for  its  activities  under Part A of the
Project in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraph 5
above.
9.   The Provincial Extension  Service  shall  charge farmers full
costs for the  fertilizer  and  other  farm  inputs  to be sold to
farmers as part of  the  extension  service. The proceeds of these
sales shall be deposited in a separate account to be maintained by
the Provincial Extension Service in  a commercial bank in Kadugli.
Such account shall be used  to finance relevant Project activities
in accordance with the annual work programs.
10.  The Provincial Plant  Protection  Directorate shall gradually
raise its charges for services  rendered to farmers under Part A.3
of the Project so  that,  in  the  third year of Project implemen-
tation, it achieves  full  cost  recovery.  The  proceeds shall be
deposited in a  separate  account  to  be  maintained by the Plant
Protection Directorate  in  a  commercial  bank  in  Kadugli. Such
account shall be used  to  finance  relevant Project activities in
accordance with  the  annual  work  programs  to  be  prepared and
submitted  by  the   Plant   Protection  Directorate  pursuant  to
paragraph 5 above.
Part B of the Project
11.  The Borrower's Ministry of  Agriculture and Natural Resources
shall be responsible for carrying out Part B of the Project.
12.  The  National   Seed   Administration   and   the  Provincial
Department of Horticulture shall prepare  and submit to PMU annual
work programs pursuant to paragraph 5 above.
13.  Improved crop seeds  shall  be  bought  by the National Seeds
Administration from contract  growers  at,  at  least, one hundred
Page  15
twenty-five  percent  (125%)  of  the  current  market  prices  of
traditional crop  seeds  and  be  sold  to  farmers  at full cost.
Tree seedlings  shall  be  sold  by  the  Provincial Department of
Horticulture to farmers at full cost.
14.  The proceeds of these  sales  shall  be deposited in separate
accounts to be maintained by  these  agencies at a commercial bank
in Kadugli; the accounts shall be used to finance relevant Project
activities in accordance with the annual work programs.
Part C of the Project
15.  The  Borrower's  Ministry   of   Animal  Resources  shall  be
responsible for carrying out Part C of the Project.
16.  The Provincial Veterinary  Services Administration shall sell
livestock drugs and vaccines to  farmers  at full cost and deposit
the proceeds of such sales in  a separate account to be maintained
at a commercial bank  in  Kadugli.  The  account  shall be used to
finance relevant Project activities  in accordance with the annual
work programs  to  be  prepared  and  submitted  by the Veterinary
Services Administration pursuant to paragraph 5 above.
Part D of the Project
17.  The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation shall be responsible
for the carrying out of Part D of the Project, including the prep-
aration and submission of  annual  work programs pursuant to para-
graph 5 above.
Part E of the Project
18.  In addition to the Project coordination functions referred to
in paragraph 1 above, PMU shall be responsible for:
     (a)  the preparation by  April  15,  1988, of a comprehensive
training program  for  the  first  year  of Project implementation
involving all relavent entities; and
     (b)  the organization of  the  mid-term  review to be carried
out not later than October 31, 1991, by the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural  Resources,  the  entities involved in the
Project and the Association.
19.  With respect to the study under  Part E.2 of the Project, PMU
shall be responsible for the  preparation of said study, including
the coordination of the inputs from the various entities concerned
with land use and environmental issues.
Part F of the Project
20.  The National Water Corporation  shall  be responsible for the
carrying out of Part F  of  the Project, including the preparation
and submission of  annual  work  programs  pursuant to paragraph 5
above.
21.  The National Water Corporation  shall prepare, not later than
March 31, 1989, a  plan  for  the  revision  of the water charges,
acceptable to the Association, so as to achieve by March 31, 1991,
a coverage of its operating costs  and by September 30, 1993, full
cost recovery, and shall increase  its water charges in accordance
with such plan.
22.  The National Water Corporation  shall deposit the proceeds of
its water sales in accounts  to  be maintained in commercial banks
in Kadugli and  Babanussa.  Such  accounts  shall  be  used by the
National Water Corporation to  finance specific activities related
to servicing the  wateryards  in  accordance  with its annual work
programs.
Page  16
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 760,000 to  be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit  Account  under the respective eligible Cate-
gories, and in the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association prior to,  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
Page  17
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
