Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1867 SU
       (Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                    AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
                      Dated February 4, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1867 SU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February  4,  1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF
SUDAN (ABS).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The  Republic  of  Sudan  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR  15,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that ABS  agree  to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and ABS,  part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to ABS on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS ABS, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. ABS declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out Part G of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative  and  financial  practices,  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required  for Part G of
the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement  of  the  goods  required  for  Part  G  of the
Project, and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  the  Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. ABS shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part G of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  ABS  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ABS shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) ABS shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part G of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  ABS shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Part G the Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  ABS  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. ABS shall  provide  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit sub-loans to farmers or  groups of farmers for the purchase
of farm machinery under  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Association which shall include  charges  at  the rate of nineteen
percent (19%) per annum and repayment over seven (7) years.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ABS
     Section 3.01. ABS shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
Page  3
     Section 3.02. ABS shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  ABS  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  ABS shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such  year  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of ABS  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the  date  twenty  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
ABS of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
Page  4
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For ABS:
          Agricultural Bank of Sudan
          P.O. Box 1363
          Khartoum
          The Republic of Sudan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                MASRAF                         610
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  ABS  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Chairman and Managing Director or  such other person or persons as
the Chairman and Managing Director shall designate in writing, and
ABS shall furnish to  the  Association  sufficient evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
                    By /s/ Salah Ahmed
                                        Authorized Representative
Page  5
                             SCHEDULE
                       Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $150,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of fifteen  percent  (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
