Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11265
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1274-YEN)
OCTOBER 16, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:       -  Yemeni Dinar (YD)
- Yemeni Rials (YRl)
January 1, 1992
YD 1   =  YR1 26   = USS 2.17
USS 1 = YD 0.461 = YRl 12
January 1, 1982
US$1 = YD 0.345  =  YRl 2.00
YD 1 = YRl 20.30 = US$2.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD       -       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CFC         -       Coastal Fisheries Corporation
EEC         -       European Economic Community
ERR         -       Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      -       Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United
Nations/Cooperative Program
FMDC        -       Fisheries Manpower Development Centre
FRR         -       Financial Rate of Return
GCDFR       -       General Corporation of Development of Fish Resources
GOY         -       Government of Yemen
IDA         -       International Development Association
IFAD        -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
MFW         -       Ministry of Fish Wealth
MOF         -       Ministry of Finance
NCFM        -       National Corporation of Fish Marketing
PDRY        -       People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PIU         -       Project Implementation Unit
ROY         -       Republic of Yemen
SAR         -       Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP        -       United Nations Development Program
VFD         -       Village Fisheries FacilitieB
YFC         -       Yemen Fisheries Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Genral
Oporations Evaluation
October 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Republic of Yemen
Third Fisheries Development Project
(Cr. 1274-YDR)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen - Third
Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 1274-YDR)", prepared by the
Middle East & North Africa Regional Office.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OffICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{CREDIT 1274-YDRI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae No.
Preface .i......................... . .
Evaluation Summary ................ .                                  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity    ..1
2. Background   ..1
The Fisheries Sector.                                              2
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                  3
4. Project Design and Organization.                                     4
5. Project Implementation  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
Fisheries Manpower Development Centre (FMDC)                       6
Village Fisheries Facilitie.                                       9
6. Project Results   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
7. Sustainability  ....  .  .  .  .   .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
8. Bank Performance  ....  .  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
9. Borrower's Performance .14
10. Project Relationship .15
11. Consultancy Services and Technical Assistance .15
12. Project Documentation and Data .16
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . .         17
1. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance.17
2. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance .17
3. Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Relationship
between the Bank and the Borrower .18
4. Evaluation of the Performance of Co-financiers, and
Assessment of the Effectiveness of their Relationship
with the Borrower .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oificial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .19
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credit .19
2. Project Timetable .20
3. Credit Disbursements .21
4. Project Implementation .22
5. Project Cost and Financing .23
6. Project Results ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
7. Status of Major Covenants ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
8. Use of Bank Resources .27
ANNEX
1. Project Incremental Fish Production .29
2. Estimated Gross Value of Incremental Fish Production  . .          30
3. Cooperative Charges from Auction Sales of Fish .31
4. Fisheries Development: Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Project: Gulf of Aden .32
5. Fisheries Development: Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Project: Ras-Al-Ara .33
6. Fisheries Development: Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Project: Shuqra .34
7. Fisheries Development: Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Project: Bir Ali .35
8. Inflators and Exchange Rate .36
9. Village Fisheries Development: Project Cost in
Current and in Constant 1991 Prices .37
10. Fisheries Cooperatives: Gross Revenues and Operating
Costs .38
11. Cooperative: Gulf of Aden - Cashflow Projections and
Financial Rate of Return  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
12. Cooperative: Ras-al-Ara - Cashflow Projections and
Financial Rate of Return  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4C
13. Cooperative: Shuqra - Cashflow Projections and
Financial Rate of Return  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  41
14. Cooperative: Bir Ali - Cashflow Projections and
Financial Rate of Return  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  42
15. Economic Fish Prices  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
16. Project Incremental Fish Production and Value in
Economic Terms  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  44
17. Total Project Cost (in current terms) .45
18. Economic Rate of Return ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  46
19. FMDC Students Acceptance (1988/89-1991/92) .47



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT. 1274-YDR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Fisheries
Development Project, for which Credit 1274-YDR in the amount of SDR 5.4 million
(USS 6.0 million equivalent), Loan No. 106-YD in the amount of SDR 4.45 million
(US$5.0 million equivalent), and Special Action Credit No. EEC-58 YDR in the
amount of US$3.4 million were approved by the International development
Association (IDA), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and
European Economic Community (EEC), respectively. With a total project cost of
US$21.4 million, the remaining US$7.0 million were to be locally funded by the
Government. The IDA Credit was signed on August 11, 1982; the Borrower was the
Government of the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY).  Both
project cost and financing package were revised in October 1987, at which time
project costs were re-estimated at US$29.4 million. Under the revised financial
plan, IDA and IFAD contributions remained the same, but the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFESD) agreed to contribute US$8.8 million and
the EEC increased its share to US$3.8 million. To date, IDA, IFAD, EEC and the
AFESD have disbursed a total of US$25.2 million. The Credit was closed on June
30, 1991; no funds were cancelled from the Credit.
Parts I and III were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) mission which visited the Republic of Yemen in February 1992 for
the Agricultural Operations Division, Country Department II of the Middle East
and North Africa Region. Part II has been prepared by the Ministry of Fishwealth
of the Borrower. The project's cofinanciers, AFESD, EEC and IFAD were provided
copies of the draft PCR; no comments have been received from them.
The PCR is based, inter alia, on information gathered in Yemen,
discussions with project staff and officials of the Ministry of Fish Wealth
(MFW), the Coastal Fisheries Corporation (CFC), the Yemen Fishing Corporation
(YFC), the National Corporation for Fish Marketing (NCFM), the Fisheries Manpower
Development Centre (FMDC), the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and on
information and data gathered from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
Development Credit Agreement, Special Action Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between IDA/IFAD and the Borrower and internal IDA/IFAD
memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT. 1274-YDR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          Over the past decades, the Government's strategy for developing the
fisheries sector was based on an ambitious plan to exploit the rich fish stocks
on the largest possible scale.  In a short period of time, a massive public
industrial subsector was established, comprising a fleet of large, highly
mechanized fishing vessels, floating and shore-based fish processing factories
and a chain of cold stores. This process of rapid public industrialization soon
outstripped the sector's technical and managerial manpower resources. At the
same time, the country's indigenous traditional fisheries sector, accounting for
about half the country's fish landings, received only marginal support that left
its productive resources undeveloped and under-exploited. It is against this
background that IDA responded to a request from the Government of Yemen for
assistance in financing a project that would provide the country with a
specialized training capability for its fisheries sector and improve the
traditional subsectors' productivity.
Implementation ExDerience
2.          The project became effective in February 1983. A series of setbacks
in the earlier stages of project implementation resulted in a substantial delay
of over three years compared with appraisal targets caused by delays in the
selection of consulting engineers, changes in the design and tender documents,
and revision of the co-financing package following confirmation of the Arab
Fund's  participation  in the  project.    The  revised  financing  plan  also
necessitated modifications to the financing agencies' existing loan agreements.
Finally, time was lost following the January 1986 disturbances in the country.
Bid awards for the main project components were made in April 1987. Since then
implementation has been fast.   The construction of the Fisheries Manpower
Development Center  (FMDC) was completed in September 1990.   High quality
construction has been maintained.   All equipment purchased for different
faculties is well selected and adequate; deliveries were completed in April 1991.
Meanwhile, the industrial fleet increasingly required financial support to
maintain its essentially uneconomic operations; although Yemen has rich fishing
grounds, the nature of these resources favours selective small-scale rather than
industrial catching techniques. Operational inefficiencies added to the woes of
the fleet, which increasingly has been laid up essentially for lack of operating
funds, With the collaps- of the industrial fishery, the needs of the country's
fishery have changed. Major efforts were made to adjust the curriculum to modern



- iv -
standards and make FMDC more receptive to the needs of the essentially small
scale fishing communities. The establishment of a Fisheries Extension Service,
which was expected to use FMDC equipment and facilities, never materialized as
foreseen at appraisal; instead, an extension project financed by UNDP became
operational in October 1989.   The project focussed on strengthening of the
fishery extension service in the Ministry of Fishwealth, and only recently has
developed closer links with FMDC.   It has concentrated its major efforts on
improvement of the design and construction of existing vessels, and has given
some attention to improvement of catching techniques, handling of fish, and
engine maintenance.   The impact of this project on the sector has yet to be
reviewed.
3.          The contract for the construction of the Village Fisheries Facilities
(VFD) was awarded in May 1987. Proposed structures foreseen at preparation and
appraisal were simple to enable cooperatives to take over the essential functions
of fish handling, icing, storage and transportation. On Government's insistence
consultants had agreed to somewhat more elaborate designs of the proposed
facilities and included small items which were not proposed at appraisal. The
main differences between planned and actual project implementation are discussed
in Part I, Chapter 5. Progress of construction has been satisfactory and the
quality of the civil works is judged to be good.
4.          A total of 123 staff-months of technical assistance were provided
under the project but altogether 82 staff-months of consultancy services were
actually utilized. Actual project costs are estimated at US$31.7 million, or 148
percent of SAR estimates. Actual disbursement included: US$6.9 million from IDA,
US$5.7 million from IFAD, US$3.8 million from EEC and US$8.8 million from the
Arab Fund. The remaining US$6.5 million were locally funded by the GOY.
Proiect Results
5.          The political changes which have affected the country since 1988 have
had a major impact on the fishing sector. IDA assisted the Government in dealing
with key aspects of the structural adjustments in the sector, through initial
policy advice followed by investment through the recently approved Fourth
Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 2265-YEM).
6.          Although  large scale public industrial  fishing operations have
stopped, and efforts to revive the industrial fishery on the basis of private
ownership has not yet been successful, small scale fisheries have thrived,
largely because of the privatization of boats, and increasing liberalization of
markets and prices.  These changes, which became increasingly apparent after
1987, necessitated that a different role be developed for FMDC; from a training
centre for industrial fisheries its focus had to move towards (short-term)
training activities for small-scale fisheries and long-term training for people
involved in processing, marketing and administration. This process of adjustment
has been initially slow,  but is increasingly forcefully continuing.   The
curriculum of the FMDC is being adjusted, but will take more time to be
finalized.  It may also be too early to evaluate the real impact made by the
project on the aspect of human resource development in the fisheries sector.
During the current year (1992), the total number of students enrolled at FMDC is
337 and it is foreseen that by the academic year 1992/93, some 60 students will
graduate from the Centre.   FMDC staff are,  in general,  academically well



qualified; theoretical training has been supported by practical fellowships, of
which some are reported by participants to have been of variable quality and
value.
7.          For the village facilities, price liberalization and policy changes
redefining the role of the cooperatives has created an entirely new framework for
operations. During appraisal it was intended to make the production cooperatives
more efficient and less dependent on public marketing organizations in what was
essentially a planned economy at that time; cooperatives would essentially
enhance their independent fish marketing operations under the project. During
project implementation sector policies adjusted quickly, forcing cooperatives to
adjust in a more fundamental way.   They privatised their fish production,
organized auctions for private fish traders rather than marketed fish themselves,
and had to face the consequences of becoming independent service cooperatives in
a market based environment. The adjustment has been made remarkably quickly, and
the initial results appear highly positive, although it may be too early to make
a final judgement on the success of this conversion for each cooperative. Fish
production in the project area increased by 50 percent after the various village
fisheries facilities were completed.  However, the financial viability of the
participating cooperatives could only be assured on the basis of a cost recovery
formula  taking  into  account  solely  the  productive  investments.    Basic
infrastructure will be handled by the Government.   Such a cost recovery,
acceptable to all parties, is pending final approval by the Ministry of Finance.
Based on this formula, the financial rates of return at cooperative level range
from 12 percent (Gulf of Aden Cooperative) to 14.2 percent (Shugra Cooperative).
The Economic Rate of Return is re-estimated at project completion to be 16.5
percent. The main reason for this lower ERR is to be attributed to the increase
in project costs which, in respect of the VFD component, exceeded the Staff
Appraisal Report estimates by 70 percent.
Sustainability
8.          The change in the approach of the FMDC authorities, director and
faculty members to reduce support to the industrial operations, and increase
activities related to small-scale fisheries, has initially been slow, but has
increasingly been positive during the past three years. This confirms that FMDC
should be able to play a very important role in the field of human resource
development in a sustained manner during the years to come.  A second aspect of
sustainability is the potential of the FMDC to take over the role of a Regional
Institute for Fisheries Training in the Middle East. The MFW recently received
applications from students in Morocco, Oman and Djibouti to attend short-term
training courses in fisheries related subjects, and is in the process of
establishing a 'twinning' arrangement with a similar institution abroad.
9.          The rapid sector development following unification has greatly
increased the demand for services from the village facilities. The volume of
fish being landed continues to increase as fishermen now own the boats previously
owned by the cooperatives.   However,  the future financial position of the
cooperatives will depend on the cost recovery scheme to be applied in respect of
the new facilities (Part I, para. 6.6).   A probable element of risk is the
availability of spare parts. If foreign exchange for spare parts is not being
made available by the Government on a regular basis, there is a major risk that
the plant and machinery installed under the project will not be fully utilized.



-vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.         The main lessons to be derived from the implementation of the project
are the following:
(i)    Fishery  projects  with  a  sizeable  engineering  component  and
complicated co-financing and procurement arrangements require heavy
supervision by experienced civil engineers and fishery specialists
during the design and construction phases;
(ii)    In order to ensure a timely start-up of project implementation soon
after effectiveness, it in necessary to reach full agreement prior
to Board presentation on co-financing packages and the resulting
procurement arrangements, even if that means delays of months or
even years.  Above all, this project again proves that detailed
design of major or complicated civil works should be completed prior
to Board presentation; completion of preliminary designs is just not
sufficient;
(iii)    Government pressure to adjust the design and scope of project
facilities should not cause that essential participation of end-
users in the decision process be omitted; and
(iv)    In an economic environment which adjusts rapidly from a planned to
a market based system, special care should be taken to provide
adequate supervision resources for the necessary adjustment of
project facilities and operations.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1274-YDRI
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Proiect Identity
Project Name    : Third Fisheries Development Project
Credit No.      : 1274-YDR
RVP Unit        : MENA Region
Country         : Republic of Yemen
Sector          : Agriculture
Sub-Sector      : Fisheries
2. Background
2.1         Fish is one of the important and richest known natural resource of
the Republic of Yemen.  Over the past decades, the Government's strategy for
developing the fisheries sector was based on an ambitious plan to exploit the
rich fish stocks on the largest possible scale. In a short period of time, a
massive public industrial subsector was established, comprising a fleet of large,
highly mechanized fishing vessels, floating and shore-based fish processing
factories  and  a  chain  of  cold  stores.    This  process  of  rapid  public
industrialization soon outstripped the sector's technical and managerial manpower
resources.  In part due to shortage of skilled staff, the sector started to
suffer from the negative impact of under-utilization of its fleet and processing
investments. At the same time, the country's indigenous traditional fisheries
sector, accounting for about half the country's fish landings, received only
marginal support that left its productive resources undeveloped and under-
exploited. It is against this background that IDA responded to a request from
the Government of Yemen for assistance in financing a project that would provide
the country with a specialized training capability for its fisheries sector and
improve the traditional subsectors' productivity.
2.2         The project originated as a result of a joint identification mission
of the Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP)
and the FAO International Indian Ocean Fisheries Survey and Development Program.
Separate feasibility studies were prepared subsequently for the two main
components, with assistance from Kuwait Fund and FAO. Project preparation was
undertaken jointly by FAO/CP and the International Development Association (IDA)
during April/May 1981, and appraisal was carried out by IDA in September/October
1981.   The IDA Credit Agreement was signed on 11 August 1982, and became
effective on 28 February 1983.
2.3         The project was scheduled to be implemented over five years, starting
from 1982, and expected to cost US$21.4 million, of which IDA was to provide
US$6.0 million, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) US$5.0
million, and European Economic Community (EEC) US$3.4 million, the remainder



being funded locally by the Government of Yemen (GOY). Both project cost and
cofinancing package were revised in October 1987, principally on account of
revisions to the design of village facilities; project costs were re-estimated
at US$29.4 million. Under a revised financing plan, IDA and IFAD contributions
remained the same but the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD)
agreed to contribute US$8.8 million and EEC increased its share to US$3.8
million. To date against an actual project cost of US$31.7 million, IDA, IFAD,
EEC and the AFESD have disbursed a total of US$ 25.2 million, the remainder being
the GOY contribution (Part III, Table 5).
The Fisheries Sector
2.4         At the time of project formulation, preliminary estimates by survey
and research vessels indicated that fish resources in then PDRY were considerable
and that annual yields could be sustained in excess of 350,000 tons, of which
only about 75,000 tons and 63,000 tons were exploited in 1980 and 1981
respectively,  about 50 percent by the industrial  fleet.   The small-scale
traditional fisheries subsector was composed of approximately 40 fishing villages
scattered  along the country's  1,500  km coastline with a total  fishermen
population  of  about  5,000,  most  of whom were  organized  into  production
cooperatives. Compared to its traditional fisheries, the country's industrial
fisheries dated only from the early 1970s when industrial fishing vessels from
Japan and the then Soviet Union began to operate in Yemen waters, some under
licence and joint venture agreements.
2.5         In the prevailing planned economy of the former Peoples Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY), fish marketing was organized as a centralized
responsibility under the National Corporation for Fish Marketing (NCFM), the
Ministry of Fish Wealth's (MFW's) authority for fish collection, processing,
distribution, and marketing. All fish landed by cooperative vessels as well as
the catches of the industrial fleet were taken over by the NCFM for processing
and distribution in domestic and export markets.
2.6         To better understand the performance of this project, it is necessary
to elaborate about the changing economic environment in which it was implemented.
During preparation, appraisal and the first five years of implementation the
economy and the sector was centrally planned and controlled, and productive
operations in the sector were virtually entirely in public or cooperative hands.
Starting in 1988 a series of rapid changes took place, which culminated in the
creation of the new Republic of Yemen (ROY).  At the same time the economic
regime in the former PDRY changed towards a market based system. In the fishery
sector this move coincided with a 1989 sector strategy study of the Bank, which
suggested a rapid privatization of the small-scale fishing fleet, increasing
independence of cooperative operations, liberalization of internal and external
fish trade and marketing, and price liberalization; because of political
sensitivities at that time, the Government did not permit a detailed analysis of
the industrial operations. The industrial operations, however, were the weakest
part of the sector.   Fish resources in ROY waters are large,  but highly
diversified, and require highly selective fishing technologies, which are mostly
available from 'small-scale' fishing vessels. Industrial technologies are, with
a few minor exceptions, not effective in the Yemeni environment, but at the time
these technologies were introduced, economic effectiveness was given low



- 3 -
priority.    The  loss making  character  of these  industrial  operations  was
highlighted by the la facto liberalization of the sector. Inappropriate public
marketing and export pricing arrangements, but above all the high fuel costs and
extreme operational inefficiency of the industrial fleet, weak management,
combined with the collapse (and support) of the former Soviet fishing fleet
operations effectively stopped all industrial fishing operations in ROY. At the
same time the rapidly privatized small-scale fishing fleet, assisted by free
trade and substantially increased market price levels, is developing rapidly, and
expanding production. The process of adjustment has not been completed though;
because of lack of infrastructure, marketing of fish from small-scale operations
is still largely in public hands in the eastern part of the country.   The
recently approved Fourth Fisheries Development Project (Cr.2265-YEM) will address
infrastructure requirements in this part of the country, and facilitate further
privatization of fish marketing and export.
2.7         As a result of these extraordinary changes, the project concept has
been subject to change. Some of these changes have caused a few problems, others
created substantial friction in the country, and adjustment has been slower.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1         Proiect Objectives.  As a result of the technical and managerial
manpower resource constraints arising from the Government's past fisheries
development strategy directed towards a rapid industrialization, anu the low
priority given to the development of traditional artisanal fisheries leading to
its stagnation, project objectives were determined during appraisal as follows:
(a)    improvement  of  fishery  education  by  establishing  specialized
training facilities for the fisheries sector; and
(b)    strengthening marketing  of  fish of  small  scale-fisheries,  and
enhancing the independence of cooperatives by establishment of a
marketing infrastructure program, improvement of efficiency and
institutional adjustment of five selected fisheries cooperatives.
3.2         During appraisal the project objective was to make the production
cooperatives more efficient and less dependent on the public marketing
organization NCFM in what was essentially a planned economy at that time;
cooperatives would enhance their independent fish marketing operations under the
project, and strive for a more independent status. During project implementation
sector  policies  adjusted  quickly  and  much  more  fundamentally,  forcing
cooperatives to adjust from production to service cooperatives. They completely
privatised their fish production, organized auctions for private fish traders
rather than marketing fish themselves, and had to face the financial consequences
of becoming independent service cooperatives in a market based environment,
cutting staff and operating costs.
3.3         Proiect DescriDtion.  The project provided for:
(a)    the construction, furnishing and equipping of a Fisheries Manpower
Development Centre (FMDC), to include:



- 4 -
*     a Fisheries Technical Secondary School to replace the existing
Fisheries Training Institute;
*     pre-service training on fisheries related specializations;
*     an in-service training program to provide short courses to
fishermen and those associated with fish handling, processing,
marketing, repair and maintenance;
*     a fisheries extension service, with headquarters in FMDC, that
would serve all the fishing villages.
(b)    the construction, furnishing and equipping of primary facilities for
handling, preserving, and marketing of fish in five selected
villages; and
(c)    technical assistance for the preparation and early execution of
FMDC's training programs.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.1         The project concept was based on the assumption that the country's
ambitious policy to industrialize the exploitation of its rich fish resources
through a rapid build-up of highly mechanized and sophisticated publicly managed
catching, processing and storage facilities was sustainable, and would continue.
To avoid building a facility that would have to spread its training resources
over too ambitious a program, FMDC was initially designed to cover only
fisheries-related specializations for which training was not offered by any other
training institute in the country. The proposed FMDC was therefore intended to
provide the following range of training:
(a)    formal  pre-service  training  that  would  ultimately  lead  to
certification of deck officers and marine engineers for the
industrial fishing fleet and diplomas for managers and supervisors
for the shore-based fish processing and storage facilities;
(b)    specialized in-service training to upgrade and update the skills of
those already employed by the MFW.
4.2         The village fisheries development component was designed to provide
marketing facilities to five fishing villages (four cooperatives). The objective
was to develop these cooperatives into fully independent operations that would
undertake all fisheries-related activities from catch to final retail marketing
under their own responsibility within the economic framework of fixed prices and
publicly owned means of production then prevailing in the country.   For the
cooperatives to be able to take over from NCFM the functions of fish handling,
icing, storing and transporting, the project provided for construction of
causeways and landing platforms, fish receiving stations, prefabricated ice
plants and chill stores, net lofts, marine engineering workshops and cooperative
offices.



- 5 -
4.3         The objectives and the design of the project reflected the prevailing
economic  framework in PDRY at that time.   Specifically,  in view of the
Government's strongly held beliefs on economic policy, no formal questions were
raised during design and appraisal about continued public involvement in
industrial fisheries development strategy, and the feasibility of a more
independent role for the cooperatives in a publicly controlled marketing
environment.
4.4         Overall responsibility for management and implementation of the
project was given to the MFW, through a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The
project benefitted from an institution building effort that was initiated under
the First Fisheries Project and continued and expanded under the Second Fisheries
Project, under which a PIU had been established. The latter had developed into
a rather efficient organization that had gained experience in coordinating
project implementation, and in dealing with IDA, expatriate project managers,
consulting engineers, contractors and co-financiers.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.1         General.  A series of major setbacks in the earlier stages of project
implementation resulted in a substantial delay in design, procurement and
construction of over 3 years compared with appraisal targets. The main reasons
were primarily delays in the selection of consulting engineers, major changes in
tender documents, and revision of the co-financing package following confirmation
of the Arab Fund's participation in the project. The revised financing plan also
necessitated modifications to the financing agencies' existing loan agreements.
Since then implementation proceeded very smoothly, with virtually no delays in
actual construction. During this period the main problem of the project was to
adjust it to the effects of rapidly changing economic climate in the country.
The initial adjustment has been slow, but ultimately successful in most respects.
5.2         The project became effective in February 1983; in May 1983 the
Government approved the award of a contract for detailed design and construction
supervision to a joint venture composed of two firms.   IDA rejected the
selection, as it did not accept one of the firms in the selected joint venture
for the design of marine works; the services provided by this firm on a previous
project were considered unsatisfactory.  Following extensive discussions, IDA
ultimately had no objections to a different joint venture.
5.3         Preparation of tender documents for the construction contract was
also substantially delayed as the quality of the draft tender documents initially
submitted to  IDA  for review was  considered  not  acceptable.    Subsequent
modifications to the draft tender documents led to changes in the co-financing
package because of the conflict of co-financiers' procurement procedures with
those of the Bank. Extensive exchanges concerning evaluation of bids between MFW
and IDA also caused additional delays. More time was lost following the January
1986 disturbances in the country. Finally, the contracts in respect of the main
project components were awarded in April 1987. There were a number of variations
between planned and actual project components, the most important of which are
reviewed in para 5.14.  Other changes are discussed in Section 4 of Part III
where a comparison is made with SAR targets.



- 6 -
Fisheries ManDower DeveloDment Centre (FMDC)
5.4         Facilities.  The contract for construction of the FMDC was awarded
in mid-1987, and construction commenced in December 1987. The delay in start-up
was due to the unanticipated site clearing work the contractor had to undertake;
the Government had been unable to clear the site, although the credit agreement
required it to do so.  There was disagreement between the contractor and the
consulting engineer, on the grounds that the sub-soil load bearing capacity
recorded by the consulting engineers and used in designing the foundations was
considered too low and therefore unacceptable to the contractor. The contractor
insisted on load tests for foundations of all buildings, without which he would
not accept any responsibility for the quality of the structures. It was finally
agreed to carry out a load test on one selected foundation, the results of which
confirmed the correctness of the original load tests and the suitability of the
foundation design.
5.5         The construction of the FMDC was  completed within  the agreed
construction period by September 1990.   High quality construction has been
maintained and all equipment purchased for the different faculties is well
selected and adequate.  Procurement of equipment initially ran into problems.
Firstly, the list of equipment proposed by the consultants emphasized only the
requirements  for basic sciences,  and not  for professional training.   The
equipment list was later revised and considerable time was taken for procurement
as the responses to the first two tender invitations (mid-1988 and early 1989)
were poor and unsatisfactory because of inappropriate grouping of items, which
discouraged small suppliers or manufacturers of specific groups of equipment to
bid. It was only on the third attempt in mid-1989 (after regrouping into small
groups) that competitive bids were received. Contracts were eventually signed
in 1990, and deliveries completed in April 1991, two years after the first bid
invitation. Delays were in part the result of the Gulf war.
5.6         The training programs originally envisaged during appraisal have been
the subject of extensive study and discussions during implementation. In 1986
a traditional curriculum was drawn-up by a Bank financed consultant, which
basically followed the objectives of the appraisal mission, and also reflected
the existing curriculum of the old fishery training institute which the FMDC
would replace. This curriculum was based on a 1950s Soviet training model which
focussed entirely on industrial fishing operations with Soviet equipment. Most
teachers and the Director of FMDC had received training in the former USSR, and
were conversant with the Soviet model and training aids.   When it became
increasingly apparent that Yemen's industrial fishery might not survive the
effects of economic liberalization, while the role of small-scale fisheries would
substantially increase, the Bank initiated major efforts to adjust the
curriculum, with assistance from FAO. Several missions, supported by technical
assistance funds provided by FAO concentrated on convincing the Ministry of
Fishwealth and the leadership of FMDC of the need to refocus FMDC efforts, away
from long term training programs to support industrial fisheries, and towards the
needs of small-scale fisheries, the requirements of the public and private fish
marketing and processing sub-sectors, and the training needs of the Ministry
staff.   In addition, the original curriculum proved so backward that major
efforts were made to upgrade its contents, teaching materials, and the way



- 7 -
curriculum material was being prepared, adjusted and taught. Initial reaction
of the Government towards these changes was lukewarm, and it took time to finally
convince the political top of the Ministry and the FMDC that adjustment and
improvement are absolutely necessary. Since then adjustment has taken place,
some new lesson programs have been drawn up, and several short-term training
programs have been initiated. Many teachers were exposed to new curricula, and
returned from training convinced that adjustment was necessary. Nevertheless,
the necessary change in attitude in FMDC management to develop a modern training
centre with a flexible curriculum geared towards addressing human development
needs of the entire fishing sector has initially been slow;   substantial
technical assistance and Bank supervision efforts to help FMDC in the process
notwithstanding. However, these efforts have not been without result; FMDC has
recently taken steps to "twin" its Aden operations to a reputable institute for
marine training abroad to facilitate accontinuing program of teacher training and
curriculum adjustment.
5.7         Procurement of two training vessels lagged way behind schedule
because of initial uncertainty about the type of vessels to be procured. The
first tender call for vessels was disappointing because there was inadequate
publicity and only one bid was received with a price almost 50 percent over the
estimated costs. A second invitation to bid for the supply of these vessels was
issued in June 1990, and two suppliers submitted bids, one for a 21 m vessel and
the other for a vessel of 13.7 m.   As the total cost of the two vessels
significantly exceeded the funding provisions, and taking into account the new
training priorities FMDC was adopting, the MFW decided to purchase only the
smaller vessel. The award of contract is presently still awaiting final approval
from the Government.
5.8         Pro-service Training.   Formal pre-service training leading to a
Diploma was proposed at appraisal for navigation and commercial fishing, marine
engineering, and fish handling and processing. It was envisaged that such pre-
service training would be organized in line with the country's policy for general
technical education, i.e. following a five-year program with the first two years
devoted to general  subjects.   At  appraisal  and during negotiations,  the
Government proposed to the Bank that refrigeration engineering be included as a
mainstream subject to be included in the curriculum of the FMDC.   The Bank
initially argued against this, on the grounds that other established technical
institutes in the country offered adequate training courses for refrigeration
technicians. The Government made repeated requests to the Bank to reconsider its
decision, as according to MFW the existing technical institutes were unable to
deliver the level of proficiency needed. To resolve this issue, the Bank agreed
with MFW to hire consultants to carry out an independent study, which concluded
that the diploma course in refrigeration engineering should be established in
FMDC. In September 1990, a fifth subject, namely, electrical technology, was
also added to the five-year Diploma program. During 1992, the number of students
enrolled at the institute was 342, comprising 175 new enrollments in the last two
academic years and 167 students transferred from the old school.   A major
constraint is the inadequate boarding facilities which currently can accommodate
only 130 students.



- 8 -
5.9         In-service Training.  At appraisal it was envisaged that FMDC would
carry out in-service training to help relieve MFW's most urgent staffing
problems.   These  short-term  in-service courses would provide training to
employees of MFW's industrial fleet and shore facilities, including workshops,
MFW administrative personnel and cooperative employees and fishermen.   Two
courses, in refrigeration and cooperative management, have been executed and the
number of courses  is expected to increase.   In view of the Government'B
privatization program, the courses will in the future be open to staff of the
private sector.
5.10        Fisheries Extension Service.  At appraisal, it was also envisaged
that a centre would be established within FMDC for a country-wide fishery
extension service. However, until recently MOF has pursued development of a
separate extension service in the Ministry; cooperation of this service with FMDC
only started following FMDC's management decision to focus on small-scale fishery
development. During construction of the FMDC, the Bank and MFW reviewed various
options for setting up an extension program within the FMDC. An action plan was
also drawn up, which was intended for implementation prior to completion of FMDC,
and which included the recruitment of experts, preparation of extension packages,
recruitment and training of extension staff, etc. However, this plan was not
implemented; when UNDP grant funds became available, the Government suggested and
the Bank agreed to UNDP support for a separate extension project, executed by
FAO, which became operational in October 1989, and which was attached to the
fishery extension service of MOF. The project started extension activities --
providing engine repair and handling of fish demonstrations in villages --
reflecting the original objectives of the extension program.   However,  its
efforts mainly concentrated on improvement of existing fishing vessel design and
construction, and the project has recently started demonstration of a newly
constructed vessel. Because GOM supported development of the extension service
in the Ministry, the project did initially little to support an extension program
in FMDC. Although the FAO project took steps to train local extension personnel,
test and demonstrate new gear in fishing villages, improve maintenance and repair
of engines and fish handling practices, some of these activities were less
effective than expected, or did not receive the attention originally conceived.
The shift in sub-project objectives did not only reflect the views of FAO staff
running the project, but also reflected preferences of local authorities.
Initial reluctance of the management of FMDC to initiate extension services for
the small-scale sector was linked to their focus on industrial fisheries.
Recently local authorities and FAO staff have increasingly endorsed the need for
certain forms of fisheries extension in the villages, and closer coordination
between MOF's extension service and FMDC; the UNDP assistance for the Extension
Project will be extended.
5.11        Teacher training.  At appraisal 32 staff-years of overseas training
were provided to prepare teaching staff for their assignments in FMDC.   The
administration of the training fellowships was carried out by FAO under a
unilateral trust fund arrangement with the Government, which also included other
services. The training program has progressed satisfactory. In all, 32 teachers
have been trained involving over 17 staff-years in the UK, Egypt, the Philippines
and Indonesia. The training program was reduced by MFW to about 50 percent of
appraisal estimates following a more detailed assessment of training



requirements, and their costs.   In addition to training on the main stream
subjects, specific training was provided to two teachers in fishing gear
technology and fisheries extension. All teacher trainees have returned to the
country and,  with the exception of two  (one resigned and the other was
transferred) are currently engaged at FMDC.
5.12        Technical assistance.   A total of 123 staff-months of technical
assistance was provided under the project for project management, designing
teacher training program, and curriculum, and for expatriate instructors in
navigation, fishing technology, marine engineering and fish processing, and for
fisheries extension.   Altogether 82 staff-months of consultancy  services,
including 48 staff-months for project management, were utilized.   The most
noticeable changes were in the subject matter specialists to be recruited for
FMDC: instead of the four specialists proposed at appraisal, only two instructors
were recruited, one for fishing gear technology and the other for refrigeration
engineering, using a total of 12 staff-months. This change reflected the initial
reluctance on the part of FMDC to major changes in the curriculum. The extension
specialist was not recruited under the project (see para 5.10).
Village Fisheries Facilities (VFD)
5.13        The contract for the construction of the village fisheries facilities
was awarded in May 1987, and the contractor commenced mobilization in June 1987.
During the construction phase a series of variation orders was issued for
additional work, and amendments or adjustments to the original contract, which
resulted in several months of delay in the completion of the facilities at the
five locations.  Despite these variations, progress of construction has been
satisfactory and the quality of the civil works is judged to be good. The main
differences between planned and actual project implementation are discussed
below. Other changes are discussed in Part III, Table 4 of this report.
5.14        Overall Designs of VFD Facilities.  The investment packages for the
fishing villages proposed at appraisal strictly related to the fishery
cooperatives' functional needs, with modifications to suit the requirements at
individual locations. Proposed structures were simple to enable cooperatives to
take over the essential functions of fish handling, icing, storage and
transportation. It was expected that the cooperatives would generate sufficient
income to pay back to the Government the cost of these facilities, with the
exception of the causeways and jetties, the cost of which would be directly borne
by Government.  On Government's insistence consultants had agreed to somewhat
more elaborate designs of the proposed facilities, and included items which were
not proposed at appraisal, e.g. boat ramps, slipways, fish cleaning and filleting
lines at receiving stations. In view of the extensive delays which had occurred
before, to avoid further delays in project design and to avoid additional design
costs, the design modifications imposed by the Government were approved.
However, these additions contributed in part to the cost overruns of the village
facilities, the other one being inflation caused by delays in construction.
Eventually these cost overruns led to disputes and delays on cost recovery
arrangements to be agreed between MFW and the cooperatives.



- 10 -
5.15        Electric Power for Fokua and Ras laran.  The original proposal for
the installation of a generator at Fokum was deleted; instead MFW suggested to
connect Fokum and Ras Imran villages to the national electric grid through
overhead power lines.  Part of the cost of the connection would be borne by
Government while the equivalent of the cost of the deleted generator set would
be paid by IDA and IFAD.   The job was executed by the contractor through a
variation order, and was completed in June 1991.
5.16        Slipway/Boat Ramps.   Neither the slipways nor boat ramps were
proposed at project preparation and appraisal because there was inadequate
information on water depths, wave heights, currents and beach profiles. It was
then recommended that the boats (sambuks) be hauled onto a hard surfaced area by
a simple arrangement of winches using the natural beach.   The consulting
engineers, at the request of the Government, recommended the construction of
slipways at four sites (Bir Ali, Fokum, Shuqra and Ras-al-Ara).   The first
slipway was constructed in Bir Ali in 1988, but soon it was covered with sand.
It has never been used because the site selected appears to be unsatisfactory,
while many sambuks have stopped operating from Bir Ali. Engineering studies made
at the other three sites revealed that there was inadequate water depth to
operate a slipway.   As an alternative to slipways,  on the basis of the
investigation carried out, the consultants recommended the construction of boat
ramps, which was agreed to by Government and IDA.   Two of the boat ramps
eventually constructed (at Shuqra and Fokum) were seriously damaged during a
subsequent storm, which cast doubts on the adequacy of the pre-design
investigations carried out by the consultants.   Following a review of the
original designs, the boat ramps were modified, and damages were repaired by the
contractor. These facilities have not been put into operation for three main
reasons. The cooperatives have been reluctant to accept these facilities because
of high investment costs, the machinery is difficult to operate, and operations
and management of the slipways has not yet been leased to private parties.
5.17        Landing Facilities.   Original proposals were to construct rubble
mound causeways and mass concrete landing platforms at Ras Imran and Bir Ali, and
a landing jetty at Shuqra, the designs of which were to depend upon the results
of investigations on soils and littoral drift.   At implementation,  landing
jetties were constructed at all three sites. The reason for inclusion of the
facilities was the assumption that the sambuk population would increase because
of their catching efficiency and the demand for them from fishermen. It was also
expected that these facilities would improve fish landing. Unfortunately, the
high price of imported timber and the difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies
of matured good quality building material caused the construction of wooden
sambuks to decline.   Only recently,  following liberalization of trading in
sharkfins, and rapid increases in prices, has fishing for shark (the principal
occupation of sambuks) received a major boost, while construction of sambuks has
been resumed. In the mean time, fibre glass "houris" and "khadifa's", which can
easily be beached and which do not require jetties for unloading, have become
most popular. The facility at Bir Ali is not used as fishermen find it difficult
to anchor their small boats, and unload fish and load fuel and provisions,
because the jetty level fluctuates too much with tide movements. Because of the
foregoing reasons these facilities have been under-utilized.



6. Proiect Results
6.1         It is too early to evaluate the real impact made by the project on
the aspect of human resource development in the fisheries sector and the general
development of the traditional fisheries subsector. With respect to the former,
the process of major adjustment of the curriculum has been started, and is
gaining momentum, but it is by no means complete; only modest attention has yet
been given to the training needs of small-scale fishermen, including extension
services, while adjustment of the regular teaching programs for Fishing, Marine
Engineering, Electrical Technology, Refrigeration Technology and Fish Processing
Technology requires further adjustment and updating. Above all, adjustment of
the attitude of FMDC Management (with its background of public sector industrial
fisheries) towards development of a more flexible teaching program, reflecting
actual needs in the sector may need more time. But in this area major progress
has recently been made; during the current academic year, reflecting future
demand for engineers and refrigerator specialists for shore-based facilities, new
students were enrolled only in the Marine Engineering and Refrigeration
Technology programs, and none in Industrial Fishing. Course duration is being
reduced to four years, and major efforts are being made to initiate a number of
short-term courses to train refrigeration and engine mechanics, which are carried
out in fishing villages with staff of FMDC.
6.2         All  five village  fisheries  facilities were taken over by the
cooperatives  in February  1990  and have  been  in use  since  then.    These
cooperatives, traditionally operating as production cooperatives, became service
cooperatives in 1990. They have adjusted rapidly to the new situation created
by the unification of the country and the liberalization of prices and marketing.
All cooperative boats have been sold through a hire-purchase scheme to fishermen.
Cooperatives have organized auctions of landed fish by auctioneers, a traditional
system which was banned by the previous regime. The auctioneers receive about
3 percent of the value of the auctioned fish, while the cooperative receives 5
percent.  Fish production has tremendously increased in recent years and the
volume of fish passing through cooperatives in 1991 was reported to be about 50
percent above the 1987 level.  Cooperatives are also able to earn additional
revenue through sale of ice and leasing out of cold storage space, and from the
use, either directly or indirectly through lease, of workshops and insulated
trucks.   However, the facilities at Fokum and Ras Imran are not yet fully
utilized because fish auctions are taking place at the major fish wholesale
market of Mansoora near Aden. Five percent of the value of the fish auctioned
at this market is given to the cooperative, but its management has been slow in
developing a market for its ice and chilled storage space. Decisions still need
to be made by GOY to more precisely define the future roles of NCFM vis-&-vis the
cooperatives. Lack cf policy guidance mainly affects the Bir Ali cooperative,
which has been unable to convince NCFM to provide it with ice from NCFM's
iceplant nearby (although during appraisal no iceplant was included in the Bir
Ali village facilities because of the existence of the NCFM iceplant), and as a
result has been less effective in organizing private auctions.
6.3         Another important action in progress is the reduction of the staff
employed by the cooperatives.   Excess staff are offered appropriate credit
through a Self Employment Credit Scheme to allow them to purchase boats and gear
previously owned by the cooperatives.   The MFW is actively encouraging this



- 12 -
policy, which may allow cooperatives to gradually reduce their staff.   For
cooperative staff without a fishing background, many of which were originally
employees of MFW, alternative arrangements still need be found which
satisfactorily deal with social security and pension rights; some may have to
return to MFW. As a result of the general development of the fishing sector,
economic growth in the villages accelerated; restaurants and grocery shops have
been set up to meet the demand of the numerous fish traders coming to the fishing
villages from Aden, Taiz, Sana'a, etc.
6.4         Financial and Economic Returns.  The financial analysis carried out
at appraisal included the Financial Rates of Return (FRR) for the four
participating cooperatives.   These FRRs were estimated at 30.4 percent, 24.4
percent, 29.8 percent and 39.2 percent for the cooperatives of Gulf of Aden, Ras-
al-Ara, Shuqra and Bir Ali respectively, on the assumption that, under the
project, cooperatives would be directly involved in fish production and
marketing, collecting from their members a charge of 45 percent' of the value
of the fish catch. In view of the changes that have occurred since unification
of the two Yemens (see paras. 6.2 and 6.3), cooperatives now operate as service
cooperatives and have different sources of revenue from those assumed at the time
of appraisal. The PCR financial analysis, including cashflows, is presented in
detail in Annex 1, Tables 9 to 14, and relative FRRs range from 12 percent (Gulf
of Aden cooperative) to 14.2 percent (Shuqra cooperative).   These FRRs are
estimated on the basis that only the costs of productive investments would be
borne by the cooperatives, (as indicated in Annex, Tables 4 to 7).
6.5         The SAR estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project
as a whole, but excluding the FMDC, at 22.5 percent. The ERR is re-estimated at
project completion to be 16.5 percent (Annex, Table 18). The main reason for
this lower ERR is to be attributed to the increase in project costs which, as
regards the Fisheries Village Facilities component (Part B of the project),
exceeded SAR estimates by 70 percent (Part III, Table 5). The main assumptions
made for re-estimating the project ERR are given in Part III, Table 6.
7. Sustainabilitv
7.1         The gradual change in the approach of the FMDC authorities bodes well
for future development; it appears eager to provide the most appropriate types
of short-term training programs to suit the needs of the fisheries sector as a
whole. FMDC should be able to play a very important role in the field of human
resource development in a sustained manner during the years to come. In addition
there is potential for the FMDC to take over the role of a Regional Institute for
Fisheries Training in the Middle East.   Foreseeing this potential,  certain
actions are being taken to affiliate FMDC with reputable overseas fisheries
training institutes.  The MFW recently received applications from students in
Morocco, Oman and Djibouti to attend short-term training courses in fisheries
related subjects.
I/ Including 25% cooperative charge, 10% for taxes and 10% for fuel and lubricants.



- 13 -
7.2         The rapid sector development following unification has changed the
role of the village  facilities.    In the new marketing  environment,  the
cooperatives are no longer transferring fish to NCFM.   Instead, they provide
their members with a range of services, including auctioning of fish to private
traders, sale of ice, use of chill stores, workshops and transport, which should
provide  for  a more  sustainable  development  of  the  traditional  fisheries
subsector.   Such services are offered at rates including a prQfit margin.
However, the future financial position of the cooperatives, though it has greatly
improved during the past two years as a result of the liberalization of fish
marketing, will depend on the cost recovery scheme to be applied in respect of
the new facilities (see paras. 5.14 and 6.2-6.4).   Being suddenly forced to
operate in a totally new, and financially risky environment, the cooperatives
refused the original cost recovery formula which took into account the total cost
of all the facilities handed over to them. They maintained that in view of the
financial situation, infrastructure items like boat ramps, jetties, fish
receiving stations, net lofts and acceso roads should not be included in the cost
recovery arrangement, and preferred a loan repayment arrangement based on actual
cost of the so-called productive facilities. They correctly claimed they had not
been consulted about the design changes made during detailed design.   Full
agreement between MFW and the cooperatives was reached prior to unification to
apply the adjusted cost recovery formula.   The agreement was subsequently
submitted to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in Sana'a for approval by May 1992,
but so far no approval has been given.
7.3         A probable element of risk is the availability of spare parts or more
specifically, the lack of foreign exchange to buy parts. If spare parts are not
imported and made available by the Government on a regular basis, there is a risk
that the plant and machinery installed under the project may not be fully
utilized. Such a situation might eventually lead to the total breakdown of the
new facilities, particularly ice plants and cold storage units. Fish handling,
general caretaking and maintenance of these facilities are not very satisfactory.
A major effort is thus required to improve the current situation.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         Despite the initial delays, Bank assistance under the project has
resulted in the installation of essential infrastructure and facilities to
support  the  development  of  the  country's  fisheries  sector.    Bank  staff
contributed to the project through professional advice, and maintained close
liaison with Government in developing sector strategy and policies which
eventually led to more flexibility in the activities of the fisheries
cooperatives and their involvement in fish marketing. Supervision missions were
regular and the Bank maintained as much staff continuity as possible during the
13 supervision missions which took place between 1982 and 1991. However, some
shortcomings were evident. The initial delays in construction could possibly
have been avoided or reduced if the Bank had followed up progress immediately
after project effectiveness, and provided the necessary support to Government in
the selection of consultancy services for civil works contracts. In fact, one
of the supervision missions indicates in its report that a fair share of the
project delay can be attributed to actions of IDA, the rejection of proposed
design consultants and major changes called for in the tender documents. Review
of the final designs by staff without specific experience in fisheries projects



- 14 -
was one of the reasons final designs turned out more elaborate than strictly
necessary, while insufficient attention was paid to the implications of the
design changes for the users.   IDA should also have been more careful in
supervising the extension component once it had been financed by UNDP. When it
became apparent that major changes were necessary in the training program of
FMDC, IDA correctly paid substantial attention and resources to this issue.
Similarly, at the request of IDA, considerable technical assistance were provided
by PIU staff, who assisted the cooperatives in adjusting their operations.
8.2         Given the wide range of activities, the complex engineering works,
and the requirement to adhere to procurement guidelines for components to be
financed by different co-financiers, better staffing of supervision missions with
appropriate technical expertise during start-up of implementation could have
helped the project to avoid certain delays, and convinced MFW to accept simpler
and less costly structures. It is also apparent that the Bank under-estimated
the difficulties of implementing the proposed extension service under a UNDP
financed umbrella.
8.3         Lessons learned.  The principal  lessons learned as a result of
experience with this project are:
(i)    Fishery  projects  with  a  sizeable  engineering  component  and
complicated co-financing and procurement arrangements require heavy
supervision by experienced civil engineers and fishery specialists
during the design and construction phases;
(ii)    In order to ensure a timely start-up of project implementation soon
after effectiveness, it is necessary to reach agreement prior to
Board presentation on co-financing packages and the resulting
procurement arrangements, even if that means delays of months or
even years in taking a project to the Board.   Above all, this
project again proves that detailed design of major or complicated
civil works should be completed prior to Board presentation;
completion of preliminary designs is just not sufficient;
(iii)    Government pressure to adjust the design and scope of project
facilities should not be allowed to reduce essential participation
of end-users in the decision process be omitted; and
(iv)    In an economic environment which adjusts rapidly from a planned to
a market based system, special care should be taken to provide
adequate supervision resources for the necessary adjustment of
project facilities and operations.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1         Overall performance of the MFW and the line departments has been
satisfactory.   During project preparation and appraisal the MFW demonstrated
strong commitment to the project while it provided all the support needed to the
respective missions. During implementation there were some weaknesses such as
time-consuming bureaucratic procedures for approval of contracts and procurement



- 15 -
of training vessels, approval of cost recovery proposals, delays in staffing of
the PIU and in not maintaining continuity of some key personnel. There were also
delays in the appointment of the Project Manager, although this can be partly
attributed to the lengthy recruitment procedures of FAO, which engaged him under
a trust fund agreement. In promoting more elaborate and costly designs, MFW
disregarded financial and technical considerations of some proposals.   With
respect to fishery extension, MFW has had difficulties in managing the UNDP
financed and FAO executed extension project. Government should have taken early
action direct and strengthen efforts to provide extension in close cooperation
with FMDC. Apart from the cost recovery covenant (CA 5.03) which is being acted
upon, no other covenants are in default. Progress reporting was regular, with
the last report covering the period up to December 1991. Project accounts have
been audited up to fiscal Year 1991. The main lessons of experience for the
borrower are more or less the same as for the Bank (para 8.3).
10.  Proiect Relationship
10.1        Despite  problems  faced  during  the  early  part  of  project
implementation, there has been an amiable working relationship between the Bank
and the borrower, a collaboration that has been fostered by the Bank's long
asBociation with MFW and other ministries from the previous two fisheries
projects. The prevailing atmosphere of collaboration encouraged more intensive
dialogue on the future of the sector, jointly addressing emerging policy and
operational questions. In 1989 Bank staff prepared a fisheries sector memorandum
and provided the Government with an assessment of past efforts together with
recommendations aimed at enhancing the efficiency of the sector in the new
economic environment. The memorandum also served as the basis for the Fourth
Fisheries Development Project which was recently approved by the Bank.
10.2        The relationship between the client (MFW) and the consulting engineer
appears to have been somewhat strained towards the later part of project
implementation, due to disagreement on the additional claims submitted by the
engineer on work carried out beyond the limits of the contract approved by the
Central Tender Board. Both construction contractors initially made claims on the
Government for large sums of money for carrying out additional works. All these
disputes eventually ended in negotiated settlements between the parties at a
small fraction of the original claims.  However, there is no indication that
contract reviews and amendments, and variation orders have not been well
administered and properly coordinated by MFW.
11. Consultancy Services and Technical Assistance
11.1        Consultant services were used for engineering designs, construction
supervision, project management and assistance to FMDC for developing curricula,
training,  extension service and instructors.   The design and construction
supervision consultancy experienced initial problems, mainly because of the
changes in tender documents and lack of clarity on account of the cofinenciers
procurement requirements.   Technical problems were mainly experienced in the
design of boatramps and landing jetties, in which the consultants were unable to
properly assess the requirements of the local fishermen and local physical
conditions.   Otherwise the design and construction supervision consultants
performed well. Within the framework of the project activities, the FAO, under



- 16 -
a unilateral trust fund arrangement with the Government, made available the
services of a project manager, various training advisors, and the teacher
training program. The only problem in the implementation of this agreement was
the long delay in the recruitment of the project manager.   His role in the
coordination and control of civil works contracts and FMDC curriculum development
was crucial at the initial stages of project implementation and his late
appointment was a matter of concern both to the MFW and the Bank. The other
services and the teacher training program were implemented satisfactorily.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        The project preparation, SAR and the Credit and project agreements
were detailed enough to provide a basic framework for the Bank and MFW for
implementation of the project. The consulting engineers' final report on "work
as completed and commissioned" and on main problems during implementation has
apparently not yet been submitted to the Government. A number of working papers
prepared at appraisal were not available for review by the PCR mission.  The
project accounting suffered some disruption at times due to the lack of
continuity of project accounting staff.   Supervision reports and documents
provided by the PIU contained adequate information to finalize the PCR.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2
1. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
1.1      Detailed discussions have been held by the IDA missions including
the Appraisal mission in 1961 on various aspects of the proposed Project
during the evolution stage. Even though there were a few areas of
disagreements, these were eventually straightened out through discussions and
mutual understanding of each other's positions. The two main areas of
disagreement at the time appraisal by IDA in Sept./Oct. 1981 related to (a)
level of formal pre-service training and (b) types of buildings for FMDC.
Both the issues were amicably settled after further discussions; IDA agreed
to the Government proposal in respect of (a) while the Government accepted
IDA's stance on (b).
1.2      The various IDA supervisory Missions that visited Yemen since 1987
worked very closely with Government and were very effective in its
supervisory work. IDA supervisory Missions visited regularly at a frequency
of six months and provided valuable guidance. Implementation of the decisions
were closely followed up by IDA. The slight delay in communication
experienced in the initial stages of Project evolution had completely
disappeared and very quick replies were received for all communications once
the implementation started. The excellent communication maintained by IDA has
avoided many possible delays in the Project implementation.
1.3     The lesson learnt is that when there is good rapport between IDA and
the borrower and an excellent communication between them is maintained, it
would go a long way to ensure effective implementation of the Project.
2. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
2.1       In its anxiety to ensure that the best possible facilities were
constructed for the fishermen, the Government had asked for certain
modifications of the village components. Some of the modifications were
agreed to by IDA while some others were not accepted.
2.2     The Government maintained close rapport with IDA, other financiers,
Engineering Consultants and Contractors.
2.3        The Government did not show any hesitation in taking important
decisions, once all information concerning the issues were made available to
them.
2.4       The lesson learnt is that while constructing such facilities in
future, the cost factor has to be given special consideration. The
Engineering designs should create only "functional facilities" and not the
"best possible facilities".
2/    This part of the PCR has been prepared by the Ministry of Fishwealth.



- 18 -
3. Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and
the Borrower
3.1      As already explained the Borrower had very cordial and effective
relationship with the Bank. The relationship during the implementation stage
was more meaningful and active than in the evolution stage.
4. Evaluation of the Performance of Co-financiers, and Assessment of the
Effectiveness of their Relationship with the Borrower
4.1     There was very good relationship between the Government and the Co-
financiers both during the evolution and implementation stage of the Project.
Representatives of Arab Fund and IFAD paid supervision visits to Yemen from
time to time, collected important information regarding progress of
implementation and made positive suggestions. EEC's interest was entirely
looked after by IDA.



- 19 -
PART ]][: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credit
Credit/Loan Title        Purpose                         Year of           Status         Comrments
Approval
First Fisheries Project  Provision of 100 traditional  1973 (an IDA       Closed            PCR
(Cr. 370-YDR)            boats, construction of a small  supplementary
fish receiving stations and   credit was
cold store facilities at      approved in
Mukalla.                        1975).
Second Fisheries Project   To finance the construction     1979           Closed             PCR
(Cr. 932-YDR)            of a fishing/general purpose                    June 1987      issued in June
harbour in Nishtun, including                                      1989.
a fish processing and storage
complex, village facilities,
fishing vessels and outboard
engines, and technical
assistance.
Fourth Fisheries         To finance the construction       1991       To start soon    To immediately
Development Project      of facilities for fish handling              Yemeni           comply with the
(Cr. 2265-YEM)           in 7 villages, about 320                     Parliament       conditions for
fishing vessels (GRP), 50                   ratification in    loans
wooden boats, 4 intermediate                February 1992.   effectiveness.
vessels and fishing gears,
and technical assistance.
Fisheries Development    Provision of credit to            1980          Completed          PCR
Project (Cr. 1025-YAR)    fishermen for the purchase of
traditional fishing vessels,
imports of marine engines
and modern vessels, and
construction of artisanal
fishing port in Hodeidah,
shrimp and fish processing
and marketing facilities.



- 20 -
Table 2: Project Timeable
Iten                             Date Planned           Date Revised              Date Actual
Identification                         -                      -            October 1977
Preparation                            -                      -            April/May 1981
Appraisal Mission                      -                      -            September/October 1981
Credit Negotiations                    -                      -            May 6-11, 1982
Board Approval                         -                      -            24 June 1982
Credit Signature                       -                      -            11 August 1982
Credit Effectiveness                   -                      -            28 February 1983
Credit Closing                    30 June 1988        31 December 1989    30 June 1991
30 June 1990
Credit Completion              31st December 1987             -            31st December 1991



- 21 -
Table 3  Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (IDA)
IDA Fiscal Year     1982 | 1983 | 1984 | 1985 |19861 1987 | 1988  1989 1990! 1991
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  (USs  million)  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Appraisal            -       0.6     3.2   5.7   5.9   6.0   6.0  6.0  6.0  6.0
Estimate
Actual              0.01    0.2      0.3    0.7  0.8    1.4   4.5  5.7   6.5  6.9
Actual as % of      ....    33       9      12    14    23    75    95   108  115
Estimate
Date of Final      30 September 1991
Disbursement:



- 22 -
Table 4: Project Implementation
A. Fhytieal AeMeyrnt
Unit        Apprisal       Revisd         Actua        Actuasl   % o
Estimate       Taret                     Appraa Estimate
1. FMDC
Civil work (Total Area)                  rn'           5,100           -            5,100             100
General clasroom                          n               5            -               5              100
Labortories/Clase-roorna                 no               3            -               3              100
Dortxitories                              n-              3            -               3              100
Staffhousing'                             n              16            -              16              100
Laboatories                               n-              5            -               5              100
Administrative block                     n-               I            -               I              100
Student centre                            n-              I            -               I              100
Teaching equipmente                        u              -            -            everal             -
Training vesseles                         n-              2            2               1               50
Teacher training                      man yearn          32            17             17               52
Technical assistance                 man months          123           -              82               66
Design and constuction supervision    nan months        na.            -             n.a.              -
2. Vlage fadlities
Fish receiving sheds                      n-              5            -               5              100
Net loft and store                        n-              5            -               5              100
Chill stores                              n              4            -               4              100
Ice plants'                            capacity    5 x 5 tons/day      -        6 x 5 tons/day        120
Ice store                                tons           110            -             110              100
Generator house                           n-              3            -               2               66
Generators"                               n-              5            -               2               40
Repair yards                              n-              4            -               4              100
Winch                                     n-              4            -               4              100
Workshops                                 n-              4            -               4              100
Fresh water supply                        n              4            -               3              75
Sea water supply                          n              I            -               I              100
Causeway/Landing platformn                n              2            -               2              100
Access road                               m             720            -             720              100
Jetty                                     n              I            -               I              100
Brine tanks                               n-              6            -              nil              0
Surfaced area                            m'            5,800           -             na.              n.a.
Insulated vehicles (5 tons cap)          n               7            10             10              140
Insulated vehicles (1.5 ton cap)"        n-               7            6               6              86
Design and construction supervision  man months         na.            -             na.               -
" Including 8 bachelor units.
Z/   Includes also 400 books, video recorders, video monitors, portable radios, camera, word processor, printer, echo
sounders, radio telephones, direction guides, compasses, electronics, fishing gear, engines and boats.
3/   Originally 2 samnbuks, revised to 2 larger training boats.
"    2 x 5 tons/day at 4 locations (except Bir Ali).
51   Capacities of generators increased from 25 and 50 kw to 136 kw at each location.
61   Upgraded to jetties.
71   Capacity increased to 2.5 tons.



- 23 -
Table 5: Project Cost and Finaning
^                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
A. Project Coat
SAR Esdmate        Revised       |   Actual        | Actual as % of
I  I                I                       ~~~~~~~~~SAR
........... (USS'000 equivalent) .
Part A of the Project:
1. Civil works                                     6,291             8,200              9,585             152
2. Equipment FMDC                                    931             1,600              1,913             205
3. Teacher training                                1,291              600
4. Consultants ervices                             2,275             1,930              3,982'           )  r,
5. Increrental operating costa                     1,096             1,020               650               59
6. Refrigeration training facility                   409                -                 -               n.a.
7. Training veebls                                  418              1.160               826              198
Sub-total:                                     12,711            14,510            16,956              133
Part B of the Project:
1. Civil works                                     5,934            11,623             12,638             213
2. Equipment & vehicles                            1,974             1,856               622               32
3. Consultant services                              756               900               1,458             193
4. PPF                                                -                 10                13              na.
5. Unallocated                                       -                480                 -               n.a.
Sub-total:                                      8 664            14.86             14.731              170
Total Project Cost:                               21,375            29,379             31,687             148
ft==                                                                =====              == = ===            == =
Project cost revised on 1 October 1987 as provided by PIUJ.
2'   Actual total project cost as provided by P1U.
3/   Details not available.



Table 5
B:1 Project hiancing
Developmenat Credit Agrecmnt            ....,               Revised .  .............   .............. ActuL   .............1.
IDA     IFAD    EEC       COY      Totl    IDA    IFAD    EEC    A.F.   GOY              t      IDA     IFAD    EEC    A.F.   GOY    Total
............................................ (US$ million equivalent) .
Part A of the Project:
1. Civil works            1.47     1.47       -      3.26     6.20    0.36     0.41             5.27    2.16      8.20    0.44     0.47       -     5.43    3.25      9.59
2. Equipmcnt                -      0.78       -      0.22      !.00      -        -              1.60      -       1.60      -        -       -      1.91      -      1.91
3. Teacher trining        0.50    0.50        -      0.30      1.30    0.24     0.24      -              0.12      0.60
4. Consulting ervices     0.75     0.82       -      0.72     2.30    0.89      0.93      -        -     0.11      1.93    1.73     1.95      -        -     0.30     3.98
5. Incrm. op.costs        0.24     0.25       -      0.61      1.10      -                -              1.02      1 02      -        -       -              0.65     0.65
6. Refig. train. facility  0.36      -        -      0.04     0.40       -        -       -        -       -        -        -                -       -        -        -
7. Training vessels        _       0.35      _       0.05     0.40     1.06               _        0.10            1.16     -        _               0.83     -       0.83
Sub-total:              323      4.17       -      510      12.70    2.55     1.58      -     6.87    3.51      14.51    2.17    2.42       -     8.17    4-20    16.96
Part B of the Project
1. Civil works              -        -      3.00     1.18     4.1S    2.61     2.85     3.78      -      2.48     11.62    4.07    2.62     3.79      -     2.16    12.64
2. Equip. & vehicles      1.60       -        -      0.40      2.00      -        -       -      1.85      -       1.85      -        -       -      0.62      -      0.62
3. Consolt. services      0.29     0.33       -      0.28      0.90    0.35     0.51      -        -     0.04      0.90    0.66     0.65      -        -     0.15     1.46
4. PPF                    0.12       -        -       -       0.12    0.01        -       -        -               0.01    0.01       -                          -  -  0.01
5. Unallocated            0.66    244       0.40      _        1.50    0.48      _       -                -        0.48     -        _       -                - _
Sub-total:              2.67     S.77     3.40     I.fi     8.70    3.45    3.36      3.78    1.85    2.52      14.87    4.74    3.21     3.79    0.62    2.31    14.73
Totd              .    6.00      4.94     3.40     7.06     21.40    6.00     4.94    3.78    8.72    5.93      29.38    6.91     5.69    3.79    8.79    6.51    31.69
IDA and IFAD contributions are converted into USS from SDR values by using exchange rate of SDR I   US$ 1.11 (1982).
21   As provided by PIU.



- 25 -
Table 6: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
l                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appraisal Estimates     Actual
Incremental catch (tons)                                   1,500                          1,800
FMDC graduates (per year)                                     40                             60
Direct beneficiaries (fishermen)                             700                            958
Enmloyment opportunities:
-  FMDC                                                    n.a.                             111
-  Village facilities                                      n.a.                              76
B. Financial Benefits
FinanciaL rates of return
Cooperative Gulf of Aden                                   30.4%                           12%
Cooperative Ras-al-Ara                                     24.4%                          13.3%
Cooperative Shuqra                                         29.8%                          14.2%
Cooperative Bir Ali                                        39.2%                          13.6%
Remarks:       For detaiLs see Annex 1, Tables 11 to 14. As explained in Part I, Para 6.4 of the
PCR, these FRRs are estimateo taking into consideration only production
investments as listed in Annex 1, Table 9.
C. Economic Impact
Economic rate of return
Project overall (excluding FMDC)                           22.5%                          16.5%
Remarks:       The economic benefits of the project comprise the value of the incremental catch
(Annex 1, Table 1) for which relative 1991 FOB prices (Annex 1, Table 15) have
been used. Benefits also include the net operating benefits originated by the
cooperatives as result of the new fish marketing system introduced since the
unification of the two Yemens (Annex 1, Table 10). Economic costs expressed in
constant 1991 prices are derived from Annex 1, Table 17 and include all investment
costs relative to Part B of the project (Fisheries Village Facilities) and 20% of
the Technical Assistance cost. Operating costs relative to fish production have
been estimated at YD 0.2/kg and have been derived from the recently appraised IV
Fisheries Project and adjusted as required. Detailed calculations of the ERR are
given in Annex 1, Table 18.



- 26 -
Tablo 7: Status of Major Coveants
Section-     Covenant                         Original Deadline             Revised Date        Status
DCA
4.02 (a)     Establishment of PIU              1 Dec. 1982                  1 Dec. 1983         Fully complied
4.02 (b)     Appointment of PM and             1 Dec. 1982                  July 1984           PM appointed in Nov.
Accountant                                                                        1987
4.04 (a)     Goods financed by credit to    Not specified                                       Fully complied work
be insured against risk
4.05 (a)     MFW to furnish IDA work          Not specified                                     Fully complied work
plans, reports, control
documents, work schedules
4.05 (b)     MFW to maintain adequate         Not specified                                     Fully complied work
records and accounts of
project activities
4.04 td)     MFW. finalises Project            Not later than six           Dec 1990            Re-scheduled to
Completion Report                months after closing         June 1991           accommodate extension
date                                             of closing date
5.01 (a)     MFW to submit audited             Six months after the end   -                     Fully complied work
Financial Statements             of each fiscal year
5.02 (a)     Appointment of Director and    30 Sept. 1984 (Director)   Sept. 1988               Director appointed in
Deputy Director to FMDC          31 Jan. 1985 (Deputy         Sept. 1988          Sept. 1990. No By-
Director)                    31 Dec. 1989        Director appointed yet
to FMDC
5.03         Transfer of village              Not specified                                     Facilities transferred
facilities to cooperatives                                                        in Feb. 1990 on a
and MFW to recover costs (10                                                      revised formula. Cost
years a  5,5X interest per                                                        recovery not yet
year of prevailing interest                                                       started as the revised
rates                                                                             formulae not yet
approved by Govt.
5.05         Clear Labour island              31 May 1984                   Sept. 1987          Fully complied work
7.01         Project effectiveness            9 Nov. 1982                   Feb. 1983           Fully complied work



- 27 -
Table *: Use of Bank Resouroe
A. Staff Inputs (saff weeks)
Stage of Project Cyces                       Planned    Revised        Actual
Through AppraisaL                              n.s.       na.          n.s.
Appraisal through Board Approval               n.a.       n.s.          n.a.
Board approval through Effectiveness           n.a.       na.           n.m.
Supervision                                    na.        na.          22
3. Missiko
No of    Days hI  SpeWlelsatons   Pefomience
Stage of Project Cyole       MonthNYear      Person       Field    reIpresnted          ratio     Type of Problen
Identification, FMDC         Sept. 1980    ConuLtant
Firm
Identification, IFD '        June/July          3          30       CE, FS, MS
1960
Preparation                  April/May           4                 FS, TS, E, CE
1961
AppraisaL                     Sept/Oct.          5                FA, E, TS, FS,
1981                                    CE
Supervision 1                Nov. 1982           3          a        E, PE, FS           1
Supervision 2                 Oct 1983           2          7          E, PE             2        Delay in recruitment of
consulting ngineers.
Supervision 3                 Jure 1984         3           8       FA, IS, NA           2        Above delay continues.
Problems in selecting
Yemenis for training.
Supervision 4 '              Nov. 1984          3           9       E, ACS, PE           2
Supervision 5 '               May 1985           2         11         ACS, FS            2        Problems of BID evaluation
+ award.
Supervision 6                 may 1986           2         10         AE, FS             2
Supervision 7 '              April 1987          2          9          AE, E             2        Cost over UN. Project
Director appointment.
Supervision 8                Nov. 1987           2         19          AE, E             2        Recruitment of Project
Director.
Supervision 9                 June 1968         3           6        AE, E, TS           2
Supervision 10               Dec. 1988          2          10         AE, NA             2        Procurement of training
vessels.
Supervision 11               Jurw 1989          2           4          AE, E             2
Supervision 12               Nov. 1989          2           5          AE, E             2
Supervision 13               March 1990         2          12          AE, E             2
Supervision 14               Jure 1991          3          17       AE, NA, IS           2
M n weeks in field.
21   CE = Civil Engineer, FS * Fisheries Specialist, MS   Marine Surveyor, E * Economist, PE * Ports Engineer,
FA - Financed Analyst, ACS * Agriculture Credit Specialists, AE u Agriculture Economist, NA * Naval
Architect, IS * Institutions Specialist, TS * Training Specialist.
3'   Study carried out by FAO consultants, financed by Kuwait Trust Fund.
"    Study by FAO/Red Sea Regional Project UNDP FAO/IC Supervision.
'   Combined uIth Supervision of Fisheries II.
"    Including 6 days for Supervision of Fisheries 11.
"    Inctuding Supervision of Fisheries it.
v    Including Supervision of Fisheries 11.






Project Incremental Fish Production
Category                 Gutf of  den (Faq. Km I_man)                     Ras st Ara                              Shuqra                               Sir Ati                   Totat
UlttloIj  I                                                     Jncrin.                         1/              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Incrinent
Vitb           W |    Uith, | Incre-   withou        With    |rIcri.    Uithou   |   Uith              Ire.    Witb              W | itbh   Incro.        at
Projject /   Project1'  |              Project      Project1                Project      Project                  Project      Project
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (tons) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Excettent 2/                -           295          295           -           233          233                      232         232           -           328         328       1,088
Category 1 3/             152           590          438         101           466          365        185            64         279          288          658         370       1,452
Category 11 4/            456           590          134         303           466          163        554           464         (90)         863          658        -205         + 2
5.tegory III              152                      (152)         101            *          (101)       185            -        (185)          288                     -288        -726
Total:                 760         1,475          715        505          1,165         660        924          1.160         236       1,439        1.644         205        1.,16
Souce:  NFW  (PIU).
I/  1987 is considered  as the without project situation. The with project situation, with full development  in 1992, is based  projecting  average
1989/1990/1991.
2/  Without project 0%; with project 20%.
3/  Without project 20%; with project 40%.                                                                                                                               1 x
4/  Without project 60%; with project 40%.
Without project 20%; with project  -.



Estimted Cross Valtu of Incremental fish Production I7
Category         Prvn             Gutf of Aden                   la  at Ara                    ShLqr                        Bir Ati                      Total
(TO/kg)    With-     With      lncre-   with-    With    Ircre-    with-       with     lncre-    with-    with    Incre-    with-    With    Incre-
out      Pro-      ment      out     Pro-      mnt       out      Pro-      ament      out     Pro-     *mct       out      Pro-     *et
Pro-      ject               Pro-    ject                Pro-      ject                Pro-     ject               Pro-     ject
ject                         ject                        ject                          ject                        ject
.... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   . . .  (tans)...... .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .   . . .  . . . .
Excellent          1.6         -        472      472        -       373      373        -        371      371         -       434      434         -     1,650    1,650
Category I         0.8       122        472      350       81       373      292       148       371      223       184       434      250       535    1,650    1,115
Category 11        0.6       274        354       80       182      280       98       332       278      (54)      414       325      (89)    1,202    1,237      * 35
Category III       0.3        46                 (46)       30        -      (30)       56         -      (56)       69        -       (69)       201       -
(201)
Total:                    442      1,296      856      293    1,026       733      536       020       4K        667    1,193      526      1,938    4,537    2,599
Flgures on fish production are given In Table 1.
2/ Average fish pries (1991 at auction).



- 31 -
,ANNEX - -
Table 3
Cooperative Charges from Auction Sales of Fish
Charges (%)               Charges
Without       With      Without       With         Incrmental
Project    Project    Project    Project
I..('.)   .... . .  (. O'000) .
Gulf of Aden"'
Cooperative charges          5           -          22.1         -
Social security              3           -          13.3         -
Cooperative auction          -           5           -          I4.9
Totalt                    a           5          35.4        64.9            29.5
Ras-al-Ara
Cooperative charges          5           -          14.7          -
Social security              3           3           8.8         30.8
Cooperative auction          -           5           -           51 3
Totals                    8            8         23.5         82.1           58.6
Shuozra
Cooperative charges          5            -         26.8          -
Social security              3            3         16.1         30.6
Cooperative auction          -            5          _           51 0
Total:                    8            8         42.9         81.6           38.7
Bir Ali
Cooperative charges          5            -         33.3          -
Social security              3            3         20.0        .35.8
Cooperative auction          -            5          -,5
Totals                    S            a         53.3         95.4           42.1
Fish landings from Fokum and Ras Tmran are and willbe auctioned at Mansoon fish market by private
auctioneers. With the project the cooperative gets only 5 % of the auction value of the catch, and does
not collect social security and cooperative charges.



- 32 -
ANNEX
Table 4
Fisheries Development: Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Project: GULF OF ADEN I/
Share of           share of         Total Cost
Cooperative        Government
...... ......... (YD'OOO) .
Fish receiving                                 148.9             148.9
statione
Net loft                      -                 137.5             137.5
Workshop                    71.1                  -                71.2
Cooperative office            -                  65.9              65.9
Fish drying yard              -                 22.0               22.0
Diesel generator              -                  -                  -
building
Other                         -                  25.0              25.0
infrastructure
Pit latrine                   -                   8.0               8.0
Storage tank.               10.9                  -                10.9
Potable water                1.0                  -                 1.0
tanks
Civil works                   -                 587.3             587.3
Water supply                54.3                  -                54.3
Electrical works            51.1                                   51.1
Refrigeration              153.0                  -               153.0
works
Preliminary items             -                112.1             112.1
Variation orders                                 20.6              20.6
Extra works                   -                 27.3               27.3
Insulated trucks            87.7                  -               85.7
Equipment                   17.2                                   17.2
Tools                        3.8                  -                 3.8
Addition works              22.5               241.2             263.7
Total:                470.7             1,395.8           1,866.5
it Includes the villages of Fokum and Ras Imran.



- 33 -
ANNEX
Table 5
Fisheries Developmeatt  Cooperative investment -
Part b of the Project: RAS-AL-ARA
share of           Sh-s of          Total Cost
|Cooperative         Gov-rsnont 
* .... .. . (YD'OOO) 
Fish receiving                -                 84.6              84.6
stations
Net loft                      -                 58.7             58.7
Workshop                    71.1                  -               71.1
Cooperative office            -                 33.0              33.0
Fish drying yard              -                 16.3              16.3
Diesel generator              -                 29.9              29.9
building
Other                         -                 12.7              12.7
infrastructure
Pit latrine                   -                 4.0                4.0
Storage tanks                8.5                                   8.5
Potable water                5.2                  -                5.2
tanks
Civil works                   -               178.1             178.1
Water supply                59.6                  _               59.6
Electrical works            80.9                                  80.9
Refrigeration              106.1                  -             106.1
works
Preliminary items             -                56.1               56.1
Variation orders                                10.3              10.3
Extra works                                     13.6              13.6
Insulated trucks            36 9_                                 36.9
Equipment                    8.6                                   8.6
Tools                        1.9                  _                1.9
Addition works               8.3               34.0               42.3
Total:                387.1              531.3             918.4
. __   .,                                     ._~~~min



- 34 -
ANNEX
Table 6
Fisheries Development: Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Projects SHUQRA
Share of          Share of         Total Cost
Cooperative        Government
...... ..... .... (YD'OOO) ...  l
Fish receiving                                 94.5              94.5
stations
Net loft                      -                75.2              75.2
Workshop                    69.5                 -               69.5
Cooperative office            -                32.8              32.8
Fish drying yard              -                16.3              16.3
Diesel generator              -                30.8              30.8
building
Other                         -                12.5              12.5
infrastructure
Pit latrine                   -                4.0                4.0
Storage tanks                8.5                 -                8.5
Potable water               0.6                  -                0.6
tanks
Civil works                   -              352.7              352.7
Water supply                26.3                 -               26.3
Electrical works           81.2                                  81.2
Refrigeration             109.8                  -              109.8
works
Preliminary items             -               56.1               56.1
Variation orders                               10.3              10.3
Extra works                   -                13.6              13.6
Insulated trucks           43.8                  -               43.8
Equipment                   8.6                                   8.6
Tools                        1.9                 -                1.9
Addition works              14.3              14.8               29.1
Total:               364.5              713.6            1,078.1



- .35 -
ANNEX
Table 7
Fisheries Developoeett Cooperative Investment -
Part B of the Project: BIR ALI
Share of          Share of         Total Cost
Cooperative        Government
.    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    (YD'OOO)    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .
Fish receiving                                   63.0             63.0
stations
Net loft                        -                58.7             58.7
Workshop                      69.5                 -              69.5
Cooperative office             -                 32.2             32.2
Fish drying yard               -                 16.3             16.3
Other infrastructure           -                 12.5             12.5
Pit latrine                    -                 3.8               3.8
Storage tanks                 8.5                  -               8.5
Potable water tanks            1.1                 -               1.1
Civil works                     -              223.5             223.5
Water supply                 14.9                  -              14.9
Electrical works             32.0                  -              32.0
Preliminary items              -                56.1              56.1
Variation orders                                 10.3             10.3
Hard surfacing of              -                 13.6             13.6
premises
Insulated trucks             29.9                  -              29.9
Equipment                     8.6                                  8.6
Tools                          1.9                 -                1.9
Addition works                                  34.8              34.8
Total:                 166.4              524.8             691.2
-===     "1=55              U--



3 36 -
ANNEX
Table 8
Inflators and Exchange Rates
Consumer Price      Inflators   |     xchangs
Index1'                             Rate
(1983 = 100)                        (YD/US$)
1983                 100              1.34            0.342
1984                 104              1.29            0.342
1985                 108              1.24            0.342
1986                 112              1.20            0.342
1987                 116              1.16            0.342
1988                 120              1.12            0.342
1989                 124              1.08            0.342
1990                 128              1.05            0.342
1991                 132              1.02            0.461
1992                 134              1.00            0.461
Mission's estimate.



- 37 -
amNu
Table 9
Village Fisheries Development:
Project Cost in Current and in Constant 1991 Prices
Cost of             Cost of
Production         Unproductive       Total Cost of
Facilities 1/        Facilities 1/       Facilities by
Yaar 1/
Cooperatives        (Cooperative         (Government
Share)              Share)
1988      198_       9889 1988  1989     _8j    -9U ?-   Total
...... .......... (YD'OOO).. . . .
A. Investment in Current Terms
Gulf of Aden        58.6      412.1   288.2   1,107.6    346.8  1,519.7   1,866.5
Ras-al-Ara            -       387.1       -       531.3        -      918.4     918.4
Shuqra             72.9       291.6   142.7       570.9    215.6    862.5   1,078.1
Bir Ali           166.4        -       524.8       -        691.2      -691.2
Total:       297.9    1,090.8   955.7   2,209.8  1,253.6  3,300.6   4,554.2
B.  Investment in Constant 1991 Prices for Financial
Analysis V/
Golf of Aden      65.6        445.1  322.8    1,196.2    388.4  1,641.3  2,029.7
Ras-al-Ara         -          418.1   -           573.8      -         -        991.9
Shuqra            81.6        314.9  159.8        616.6    241.4    991.9  1,172.9
Bir Ali          186.4         -       587.8       -        774.2    913.5    774.2
Total:     333.6       1,178.1  1,070.4  2,386.6  1,404.0  3,564.7  4,968.7
" See details in Annex II,Tables 4 to 7.
2t Converted into constant 1991 prices using inflators given in Annex II, Table 8.



Fisheries Cooperetives: Gross lewwems *d Operatiuu Costs
Colf of Aden                      Pes-al-Are                          Swua eir Ali
uithouf     With ProJect        Withou        With ProjectZ/      with        | With Project         WIth Wt,   |ith Project
Project                         Project                           Project                           Project
A. bewum          I fromr tic
cooperative ch rges                        35.4            64.9             23.5             82.1             42.9             81.6             53.3             95.4
Income from prokuction                    273.3              -             212.0                              13.013/                           5.813/
Rent from chill store                       6-04/                             -60                                                6040-
Ice sales                                    -             60.05'                           50.09                             60.0-
Workshop lease/sarvices                    80.0             4.0             28.5              4.0            110.8              4.0             28.0              4.0
Rent frau inrulated trucks                   -             2a.aO/             -              18.8 10/           -              25.61I/            .              216 12/
Incrm  from sales of equlp.                53_-- 3jQQ O                                                                                         611             40 0
Total Eeviums:                          442.0           333.7            317.3            240.9            220.0            277.2            148.2            211.1
D. RaLti1 CostE
Expend. fori)ce plant wnd                    -              26.4              -              22.4               -              26.4
ctillt store7
ExpenditLwe for  /orkshop4                                  1.0               -               1.0               -               1.0               -               1.0
Expend. for inrulated trucks7/               -             11.5               -               7.5               -              10.2               -               8.6
Naint. & repl. of fishing boats            27.7                             29.3               -               3.0               -               5.0               -
Cost of fish sales                        216.7                            175.0               -                -                -                -                -
Cost of sale of fishing equip.             40.0           127.5             40.0             60.0             33.3             55.0             46.3             60.0
Salaries nd ad. expenses                   90.0            50.0             40.0             32.0            120.0             46.0             41.0             40.0
ContrIbutions14/                                            . 15/             8.8              308             16.1            _30.6             20               35.8
Total Operating Costs:                  387.7           216.4            293.1            153.7            172.4            163.2            112.3            145.4
C. Sl le     (A-1):                         54.3            117.3            24.2              87.2            47.6            114.0             35.9             65.7
1/  Average 19o-8*1o9o;                                                                  98/  25X of gross revenues.
Average 1968-1990;                                                                  9
2/  At full development.                                                                  /  At 50 fls/kg estieting 4 tons of ice/day over 250 days.
3'   See details In Table 3.                                                              0/  25 trips/truck/year at To 250/tripe (total of 3 trucks).
4I   Estimted at 20 fils/kg/day end essmuing 3 tons/day over a period of 100 days.  1   80 trips/truck/year at Y0 80/trip (total of 4 trucks).
5'  At 50 fits/kg estiesting 4.8 tone of ice/day over 250 dayv.                          12/ J0 trips/truck/year at To 90/trip (total of 3 trucks).
6/   120 trips/year at Y0 40 trips (total of 6 trucks).                                   3' Nt sate
7'  402 of gross revens.                                                                 14/  It includes social security (3X of the value of the catch at auction, se
Amex II, Table 3 for detsils).
15/ In the with the project situation, sociat security charges ere not collected
ard therefore no peyment is made.
>
a) z
o 2



Cooperative: Golf of Aden - Cashfiow Projections and Finaucial Rate of Return
Without    |                                      WithProject.............................hroec . .. ................ ....
Project1 V_           _    _     _    _    _     _    _     _    _    _     _    _    _     _    _
Year I        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Y Years 5-17   | Years 18-25
.....................................                   .....................................
1. Cash Intl
- Gross Revenues 2/                               432.0          432.0          432.0         233.6         300.3           333.7           333.7
- Long-term Loan 3/                                -              6             _45.1 
Total Inflow                                432.0          497.6          877.1         233.6         300.3           333.7           333.7
11. Cash Outlo
- Operating Costs 2/                              387.7          387.7          387.7         151.5         194.8           216.4           216.4
- Investment 3/                                    -                            44.1           -                             -
Total Outflow.                              387.7          4533           832.          I151.         194.5           216.4           216.4
Ill. Casb Balanc Beore Debt Serce                   44.3            44.3          44.3          82.1         105.5           117.3           117.3
IV.  ebt Service 4/-                                                 -                          50.9          50.9            50.9
V. Casb Balanct After Debt Service                  44.3            44.3           44.3         31.2          54.6            66.4            117.3
Financial Rate of Return: 12%
t/  Data provided by PlU.
2/  See details in Table 10 (fufldevclopment in Year S, Ycar 3 = 70%; Year 4 - 90%).                                                                 f 
3/  See details in Tabic 9.                                                                                                                          -
4/  Capital recovery factor at 5.5% applied, repayment period over 15 years.



Cooperative Ras-al-Ara - Cashilow Projectioas and Financial Rate of Return
Without      ....................... With Project...........
Project I/
Year I        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Years 5-17  | Years 18-25
..................................... (YDWO).
1. Cas,b ln
- Gross Rcvcnucs 2/                              317.3          317.3          3173          168.6        216.8           240.9           240.9
- Long-term Loan 3/                                -              -            418.1         _.            .               -       
Total Inflo                                 3173           317.3         735A          168.6         216.8          240.9           240.9
IL Cash Oudtio
- Operating Costs 2/                             293.1          293.1          293.1         107.6         1383           153.7           153.7        1
- Investment 3                                      -              -           418.1          _                    -                -
Total Outflow:                              293.1          293.1         711.2         107.6         138.3          153.7           153.7
Ill. Cash Balance Before Debt Service               24.2           24.2          24.2          61.0          78.5           87.2            87.2
IV. Debt Service 4/                                  -              -             -            41.7          41.7           41.7
V. Cash Balance After Debt Sersice                  24.2           242           24.2          19.3          36.8            45.5           87.2
Financial Rate of Return: 13.3%
1,  Data provided by PIU.                                                              
2/  See details in Table 10 (full development in Year 5; Year 3 = 70%; Ycar 4 = 90%).                              
3/  See details in Table 9.                                                                                                                        -
4/  Capital recovcry factor at 5.5% applied, repayment period over 15 years.



Cooperative: Sbuqra - Cashilow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
Without      ...                                Wi................... .th Project  ............................
ProjectI/
Year I       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Years 5-17   1 Yea  18-25
..................................... (YDVOO).
L cash laf
- Gross Reveaues 2/                             220.0          220.0         220.0        194.0         249.5          272            277.2
- L0ng-teCm Lan                                  - _           8
Total Inflow:                             220.0          301.6         534.9         194.0        249.5          277.2           277.2
II. Cash Outio 
- Operating Costs 2/                            172.4          172.4         172.4        114.2         146.9          163.2          163.2
- Investment 3/-                                                .6           314.9
Total Outflow:                             172.4         254.0         487.3         114.2        146.9          163.2           163.2
111. Cash Balance Before Debt Service             47.6           47.6          47.6         79.8         102.6          114.0           114.0
IV. Debt Srvi4                                     -              -                         39.5          39.5           39.5
V. Cash Balance After Debt Servn4                 47.6           47.6          47.6          40.3         63.1           74.5           114.0
Financial Rate of Return: 14.2%
Data provided by PIU.
2/  See details in Table 10 (fulldevelopment in Year 5; Year 3 = 70%; Year 4 = 90%).                                                            c x
3'  See details in Table 9.                                                                                                                    w
4/ Capital recovery factor at 5.5% applied, repaynient period ovcr 15 years.



Cooperative: Bir Ali - Cashflow Projections and Financial Rate of Return
Without      ...............With Project...............
ProJect 1/
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3   | Years 4-16  F Ycars 17.25
............................... (            )..............................
1. Cash Inflow
- Gross Revenues 2/                              148.2         148.2          147.8        190.0         211.1          211.1
- Long-term Loan 3/                                -            186.4                       -             -
Total lnfow.                               148.2          334.6         147.8         190.0        211.1          211.1
11. Cash ouuie 
- Operating Costs 2/                             1123           112.3         101.8        130.9         145.4          145.4
- Investment 3/                                   -             186 4                        -
Total Outflow:                             112.3          298.7         101.8         130.9        145A           145.4
111. Cash Balance Before Debt Service              35.9           35.9          46.0          59.1         65.7           65.7
IV. Debt Senice 4/                                  -              -            18.6          18.6         18.6
V. Cash Balance After Debt Service                 35.9           35.9          27.4          40.5         47.1            65.7
Financial Rate of Return: 13.6%
1,  Data provided by PIU.                                                                                                                        |
2/  See dctails in Table 10 (full development in Year 4; Year 2 = 70%; Year 3 = 90%).                            |
3/  See details in Table 9.
4/  Capital recovery factor at 5.5% applied, repayment period over 15 years.



- 43 -
Table 15
Economic Fish Prices
Category             Species/Zzportable      Market      Cost to move |conomic Prices
Price        Fish from
Frozen     Beach to Part
F.o.b Aden I of Aden
(US$/ton)    (US$/ton)1/    US$/toa   YD/ton
Excellent           Yellow fin tuna             750           190
Spanish mackerel         1,850           190
Red snapper              2 000           12Q
Averaget                 1,533            190         1,343       620
Catecory I:         Emperor                   1,000           190
Grouper                  1,100
Average:                 1,050            190          860        397
Catecory IIs        Barracuda                   600           190
Rabbit/puffer fish         600           1
Average:                   600            190          410        189
Catecory III:2/      Croaker                    500           190
Ray                        300
Average:                   400            190          210         97
Including: port charges (USS 20/ton); freezing and storage (USS 100/ton); brnsport to Aden (USS
40/ton); receptor and icing (USS 30/ton).
2/ Including other fish.



- 44 -
Table 16
Project Incremental Fish Production and Value in Xconomic Torms
Category                  Without Project   With Project             Incremental
l  . . . . . . . .  (tons)
A. Productioni/
Excellent                          -1,0S                                1,088
Category I                        726             2,178                 1,452
2
Category II                     2,176             2,178                  (7261
1,8 16
Category III                      726
Total:                    3,628              5,444
B. Production Value in Econoic Torus
Value of Production   .
Category                      Economic           Without         With       Incremental
Price2/           Project    I  Project   I
(YD/ton).                       (D'000)
Excellent                         620                -             675           675
Category I                        397               288            865           577
Category II                       189               411            412              1
Category III                       97                70            -             (70.
Total:                                         769          1,952         1,183
Se ec deas in Annex fl,Table 1.
2/  See details in Annex II,Table 15.



Total Project Cost (in current tenDs)
1913     1 9K4    1985      1986      1987      198K      1989      1990    1l99        1992     Total
.........................................                 ........................................
Civi Works: ...................I
Part A of Project                  -        -        -         -       387.9   1,014.2   1,592.6    175.6      145.4              3,315.7
Part B of Project                 -105 _                                       128922    1648.2      3914      246._              4385.7
Total:                                                              1,198.4   2,303.4   3,240.8     567.0     391.4      -       7,701A
E4uipmento
Part A of Project                                                        -         -         -       302.0     458.6    16.2       776.8
Part B of Project                                                                           -         38.7     234.6                7 .3
Total:                                              * * *                                           340.7     693.2    16.2      1,050.1
Training Vehis
Part A of Project                  -        -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -      380.8      380.8
Increm, OP. COStS:               12.0     13.7      17.1     17.1      23.9       42.8      34.2      34.2      36.9       -       231.9
Consultant SerViCes11           1353      39.8    453.6      70.9       53.5     433.2     514.2     1403       27.0       -      1,867.8
EEE                               4.3-                                 -         -                                       -           43
Total Project Cost             151.6     53.5    470.7    88.0    1,275.3   2,779.4   3,789.2   1,082.2   1,148.9   397.0    11,2363
I.n
Total Project Cost:              -         -        -         -      821.2   1,375.8   1,751.0      458.2     486.4      -       4,892.6
(Put B)2/
Total Project Cost:              -         -        -         -      952.6   1,540.9   1,891.1      481.1     496.1      -          -
(Pat B) 1991 prOes3/
Sourm Fl - MFW A".&
1/ No details were avaiable on distribution of costs for PartS A and B of the project.
V  IwJudlipg 20% of couant sevices Cost.
31 Converted into 1991 prices using inflators as given in Table 8.



- 46 -
Table 18
Economic Rate of Return
Operating                   Benofits
Cost
Years        Investment          Fish              Fish         cooperatives4/       Balance
Costi/       Production2/    Production3/
.   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  (YrD'ooo)  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
1987              953                       -                           -               (953)
1988            1,541                       -                           -            (1,541)
1989            1,891                       -                           -            (1,891)
1990              481            254                828               130                223
1991              496             327             1,065               200                442
1992-              -             363              1,183               232              1,052
2011
Economic Rate of Return:   16.5%
1  As detiled in Annex II,Table 17.
2v Production figures are given in Table 1. Production coss, including fuel and lubricants, repairs and
mamiteaance and labour, are estimated at YD0.2I2kg. Full developmont is Year 1992; 1990 - 70% and
1991 - 90%.
As detilod in Table 16. Fulldevelopment is Year 1992; 1990 - 70% and 1991 - 90%.
4/ Includes not incremental operating benefits originated by coopeatives as detailed in Annex II,Table
10.



- 47 -
ANNLSX
Table 19
FNDC Students Acceptance (1988/89-1991/92)
lot year   2nd year   3rd year    4th year
1988/89     1989/90     1990/91      1991/92
A. Fourth Year. t
-  Group A: Refrigeration                     26           26          25           23
-  Group B: Marine Engineer                   26           25          25           25
-  Group C: Navigation & Fish Gear           2U           _5           _5          _3
Sub-total:                               78           76          75           71
B. Third Year:
-  Group A: Refrigeration                      -           28          31           33
-  Group B: Marine Engineer                    -           29          30           28
-  Group C: Navigation & Fish Gear            -            28          22     _a
Sub-total:                                -           85          83           83
C. 3econd Years
-  Group A: Refrigeration                      -           -           28           29
-  Group B: Marine Engineer                    -            -          28           25
-  Group C: Navigation & Fish Gear            -           -            12           21
Sub-total                                 -           -           85           82
D. First Year:
-  Group A: Refrigeration                      -           -            -           34
-  Group B: Marine Engineer                    -           -            -           33
-  Group C: Navigation & Fish Gear            -           -            -_
Sub-totalt                                -           -           -           101
TOTALS                                   78          161         243          337



