Document of                         t
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3806a-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 20, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni Dinar (YD)
YD1   US$2.92
US$1   YD 0.342
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)           =  3.2808 feet
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.6214 mile
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.54 nautical mile
1 mile                =  1.609.3 kilometer
1 metric ton (ton)    =  2,204.6 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
PDRY             People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
CIF              Cost, Insurance, Freight
CP               FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
EEC              European Economic Community
EMENA            Bank's Europe, Middle East and Northern Africa
Regional Office
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FMDC             Fisheries Manpower Development Center
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural
Development
MFW              Ministry of Fish Wealth
MTI              Maala Technical Institute
NBY              National Bank of Yemen
NFMC             National Fish Marketing Corporation
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PPAR             Project Performance Audit Report
GOVERNMENT OF PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
I.    INTRODUCTION .........      .................................    1
II.    THE FISHERIES SECTOR ..................................   1
A.  Fish Resources          1................. .      .    1
B.  Fishing Seasons and Grounds     .       .              2
C. Fish Exploitation .                .                   2
D.  Fish Processing and Marketing     .      .             5
E. Fish Export .                   .                      6
F.  Fisheries Manpower Situation     .      .             6
G.  Training and Research ....................             7
H. Fisheries Administration .             .               8
I. Previous IDA Projects in Fisheries .        .          9
III.  PROJECT AREA ...........  10
IV.    THE PROJECT ........................................... 11
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Concept .......  11
B.  Detailed Features .......     ........................  12
C.  Cost Estimates ........     ..........................  18
D.  Financing ...........    ............................   20
E.  Procurement ..........    ...........................   23
F.  Disbursement .........    ...........................   23
G.  Environmental Effects ......     ......................  26
V.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....     ..............  26
A.  Project Organization During Construction Period .   26
B.  Organization and Management of Project Operations   27
C.  Accounting and Auditing ...............    .........  28
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ......     .................  28
E.  International Commodity Agreements ....     ..........  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ..................    ....   29
A.  Production         ......................................   29
B.  Marketing and Prices ......      ......................   30
C.  Cost Recovery ................................ 31
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................    32
A.  Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits ....       .       32
B.  Economic Benefits ......     ........................   33
C.  Project Risks .......       ............................   34
VIII.     AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS               ..               35
ANNEXES
1.    Proposed Study on the Demand and Supply Situation of
Refrigeration Technicians in PDRY ...............    ....   36
2.    Terms of Reference for Training Advisor ....        ...........  37
3.    Detailed Project Cost Estimates        . . ....               39
4.    Gross Value of Production ......      ....................     40
5     Cash Flow Projections .......................          ,      41
6. Bar Chart                    ....43
7.    Related Documents and Materials Available in
Project File                    .... 44
TEXT TABLES
2.1   Fish Production by Subsectors. . . .                            3
4.1   Summary Project Cost Estimates          . . . .19
4.2   Project Financing Plan ...... . . .                            22
4.3  Estimated Disbursements 7......25
6.1 Cooperative Fish Prices               ....31
MAPS



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Fish is PDRY's richest known natural resource.  Over the past decade,
the Government 's strategy for developing this important sector was based on an
ambitious plan to exploit the rich fish stocks on the largest possible scale.
To adhieve this objective, major portions of the country's development budgets
were allocated to the fisheries sector. In a short period of time, a massive
industrial subsector was established, comprising a fleet of large, highly
mechanized fishing vessels, floating and shore-based fish processing factories
and a chain of cold stores. This process of rapid industrialization soon
outstripped the sector's few technical and managerial manpower resources.
Belated efforts to meet the rapidly growing demand of technicians,
administrators and managers proved to be inadequate. As a result, the sector
now suffers from the negative impact of severe underutilization of its fleet
and processing investments.
1.02     While the past development strategy created a massive industrial
capacity that cannot be effectively integrated into the country's economy and
profitably exploited, the country's indigenous traditional fisheries sector,
still accounting for about half the country's fish landings, received only
marginal support that left its productive resources undeveloped and
underexploited. It is against this background that IDA responded to a request
from the Government of PDRY for a credit to assist in financing a project that
will provide the country with a specialized training capability for its
fisheries sector and improve the traditional subsectors' productivity.
1.03     The project originated as a result of a joint identification mission
of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and the FAO International Indian
Ocean Fishery Survey and Development Program. Separate feasibility studies
were prepared subsequently for the project's two distinct components for which
the Kuwait Fund provided financial and FAO technical assistance. Final
project preparation was undertaken jointly by IDA and the FAO/World Bank CP
during April/May 1981.
1.04     This report is based on the two feasibility studies, the preparation
report and the findings of an appraisal mission which visited PDRY in
September/October 1981. The mission consisted of Messrs. U. Kiermayr, P. van
der Goot, C. Maguire (part time) (IDA) and Messrs. H. Gunawardena (FAO/World
Bank CP) and L. Kelly (consultant).
II. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
A. Fish Resources
2.01     The Gulf of Aden is characterized by a narrow, sharply dropping
continental shelf. The wind and current systems are intensely seasonal,
causing pronounced upswellings of waters along the coast, which result in a
high nutrient and plankton productivity. Preliminary estimates by survey and
research vessels, indicate that fish resources in the area are considerable,
and that annual yields could be sustained in excess of 350,000 tons, of which



- 2 -
only about 75,000 tons and 63,000 tons were exploited in 1980 and 1981
respectively. Fish stocks are the country's richest known natural resource,
which, if effectively exploited and distributed, could make an important
contribution to the economy of this poor country which belongs to the group of
countries with the lowest per capita income in the world.
2.02     Pelagic species such as sardines, Indian mackerel, kingfish, skipjack
and tuna species account for a major part of this resource. Because of their
migratory habits, caused by variations in water temperature and other
environmental conditions, catches can vary substantially from year to year.
Seasonal abundance of these species is estimated to vary between 250,000 and
300,000 tons, of which sardines constitute the largest single species.
Biological studies have revealed that over 300 demersal species inhabit the
area of which 80-100 species are commercially important. The more popular
ones among them are horse mackerel, red snapper, rock cod, sea bream, lizard
fish, barracuda and shark.  With the exception of shark, the demersal stocks,
which could support a year-round fishery, have been lightly exploited. The
invertebrate resources of commercial importance are rock lobster, deep sea
spiny lobster and cuttlefish. Rock lobster is found in shallow waters, along
the entire coast. The stock size of these species has not yet been
sufficiently established, but current catch figures indicate the availability
of sizable resources. The spiny lobster is found at depths from 150 m to
400 m, where it is caught by industrial trawlers. The stock size of
cuttlefish, one of the largest in the world, is estimated at around 100,000
tons, with an annual potential yield of between 10,000 to 16,000 tons.
B. Fishing Seasons and Grounds
2.03     Fishing seasons are associated with two monsoons, the southwest
monsoon from June to September and the northeast monsoon from November to
March. The traditional coastal fishermen operate their vessels throughout the
year in most parts along the coast. Along the western coast, good landings
are observed during the southwest monsoon, whereas larger shoals of sardines
and small mackerel appear in abundance during October to March along the
eastern coast. The traditional fishing grounds extend up to about six miles
seawards, with the smaller vessels operating within a three-mile zone.
Although the territorial sea limit of PDRY extends 200 miles seaward from the
shore, industrial fishing is concentrated within a zone of approximately 18
miles, and is not permitted within a three-mile zone, which is reserved for
traditional small scale fishing. As the Government is unable to enforce this
rule, violations are frequently reported. Up to now, there have been no
disputes or clashes with other countries concerning fishing rights.
C. Fish Exploitation
2.04     The country's rich fish resources are presently exploited by three
distinct types of fisheries: the traditional coastal fishery, the modern
industrial fishery, and the joint venture and licence fisheries.



- 3 -
Table: 2.1 FISH PRODUCTION BY SUBSECTORS
('000 Tons)
1980    1981
Cooperatives                                       34.9    21.6
Industrial fleet                                   12.5    11.3
Joint Ventures 1/                                   4.5     3.6
Foreign Companies fishing under licence 2/         21.9    26.4
TOTAL                                       7TT 3UT§
1/ Public sector companies in partnership with USSR
2/ Two Japanese companies
Source: MFW.
2.05     Traditional Coastal Fishery.  The small-scale traditional fisheries
subsector is composed of approximately 40 fishing villages that are scattered
along the country's 1,500 km coastline with a total fishermen population of
about 5,000, most of whom are organized in production cooperatives. The
traditional fishing fleet consists of three basic types of well designed,
locally-built, fishing vessels; the smallest fishing craft, the huri, is a
canoe-type vessel which uses a sail or a small outboard engine. It is
normally operated by a crew of two and may catch up to 10 tons of fish per
year. Second in size is the sambuk, powered by a six to ten horsepower
outboard engine. A crew of three to four fishermen may catch up to 20 tons
annually. Construction of this vessel is quite unique, as its planks and
frame are sewn together using synthetic fiber which makes the vessel
exceptionally resilient under heavy sea conditions. The largest traditional
vessel is the inboard sambuk which is found in sizes up to 15 m, powered by
inboard diesel engine of up to 45 hp. Depending on the type of fishing
employed, the vessel has a crew of up to 12; its catch capacity reaches up to
100 tons. All three types of vessels are considered exceptionally well suited
for operation under PDRY's coastal conditions.
2.06     An estimated 300 sambuks and 800 houris are operated by the
fishermen's cooperatives. One hundred modified sambuks of the larger type
were provided under IDA's First Fisheries Project (Cr. 370-YDR). These
modified vessels were very well received by the Yemeni fishermen and have
substantially increased their catch capacities. Lately, however, construction
of the larger sambuks has become very expensive because of high prices for
imported timber and increasing shortages of local wood which is used for
construction of the vessel's frame. Skilled carpenters belong to the highest
paid workers in the country, and this places an increasing financial burden on
the cooperatives for repair and maintenance of these vessels. The Ministry of
Fish Wealth (MFW) is looking for suitable, less expensive replacements for the
country's aging fleet of coastal fishing vessels.
2.07     PDRY's fishermen who are known as being skillful and hardworking,
have traditionally held a low position in the country's social structure.
They carried out a lucrative fish trade when fisheries were organized as a



- 4 -
free enterprise before the country's independence. After 1970, the fisheries
sector was reorganized so as to be integrated into the new centrally planned
economy, virtually eliminating private sector activity. The traditional
fishing fleet was nationalized and the fishermen organized in production
cooperatives depending on a centralized fish marketing and distribution system
based on Government controlled prices. The fishing vessels are legally owned
by the cooperatives and fishermen using them are charged the following
payments as percentages of the gross value of the landed catch: (i) fuel 10%;
(ii) depreciation and maintenance 15%; (iii) cooperation overhead; (iv) social
security; and (v) Government tax 10%. The new organizational framework
adversely affected the subsector's perfonmance. Unattractive incomes due to
unrealistically low fish prices combined with the loss of enterprising freedom
prompted fishermen to give up their occupation in search of 'aigher and more
stable remuneration elsewhere. Furthermore, major bottlenecks in the
logistical arrangements of the centralized marketing system left the outlying
villages with an unpredictable and erratic system of fish collection. As a
result, fish landings decreased, causing frequent supply shortages.
2.08     The Government gradually realized the shortcomings of the new system
and urged by IDA, raised fish prices in an effort to increase incentives to
fishermen. In 1979, when fish supplies from the traditional subsector
continued to fall short of expectations, the Government introduced som.e degree
of flexibility into the marketing system and provided additional price
incentives. The cooperatives who originally had to deliver their entire catch
to the MFW's central marketing organization were given the option of marketing
up to 40% of their catches themselves and were allowed to charge prices up to
50% above the Government set price levels. These measures have revitalized
the country's traditional fishery to some extent, as some cooperatives now
report increasing membership applications from among those who left the trade
earlier. In practice, the freedom of the cooperatives to market their catch
seems to be much greater than the Government's directive indicates. There is
evidence that where logistics permit, cooperatives market directly as large a
share of their catches as possible.
2.09     Despite the unfavorable policy framework within which the traditional
coastal fishery had to operate, this subsector contributed about 35,000 tons
or almost half of the national catch in 1980. This contribution, while still
well below the subsector's potential, indicates the importance of the
traditional fishery to the country's economy. Fish landings reported by the
cooperatives in 1981 were about one third lower than in 1980. However, the
actual production of the traditional fishery might be well above the level
officially reported as the cooperatives tend to underreport their catches to
conceal the volume of direct market sales that frequently exceed the permitted
limit.
2.10     Industrial Fishery.  Compared to its traditional fishery, the
country's industrial fishery is of recent history and dates only to the early
1970's when industrial fishing vessels from Japan and the Soviet Union began
to operate in PDRY waters under licence and joint venture agreements. The
Government, at that time, decided to build its own industrlel fishing fleet.
In rapid succession, the MFW acquired from Japan, the Soviet Union and China a
total of 19 new and second hand freezer trawlers ranging from 200 to
2,000 GT. The Government plans during 1982-85 to purchase five additional



- 5 -
industrial trawlers from the Soviet Union. In 1979 and 1980, the trawler
fleet landed 2,930 and 3,480 tons, respectively. Cuttlefish, spiny deep sea
lobsters and red snappers, all of high export value, are the main target
species of the trawler fleet. Its contribution to the national catch in 1980
was about 4%. For the exploitation of the cotntry's rich sardine resources,
the Government has acquired a fleet of 13 purse seiners of between 125 and
150 GT of Japanese, Norwegian and Spanish origin. Over the 1978-80 period,
the purse seiners landed between 4,000 and 8,200 tons of sardines annually.
For 1980 the industrial fleet's total contribution to national catch was about
16%. Total landings of the industrial fleet had dropped to 11,300 tons in
1981.
2.11     A number of vessels of both the trawler and purse seiner fleets
remain idle while others operate well below their capacities. The fleets'
present fish landings are far below the level where the country can expect to
reach a net return on the massive investments made. The industrial fishery is
plagued by a host of technical and managerial problems which are typical for a
premature change to an overly sophisticated level of technology. The most
serious constraint, however, for a profitable utilization of the industrial
fishery is the shortage of trained and skilled manpower at all levels. This
is discussed in more detail in paras. 2.18 - 2.24.
2.12     Joint Venture and License Fisher.  To supplement domestic fish
production, the Government has entered into joint venture operations with two
private Japanese fishing concerns and with the Soviet Union. A fourth joint
venture with Libya is about to become operational. Production of the foreign
joint venture trawlers in 1980 was about 4,500 tons which represented about 6%
of the national catch. A number of Soviet fishing vessels operate in PDRY
waters under licence agreements for which PDRY receives 32% of the catch as
fee. In 1980, those licenced vessels caught 22,000 tons of fish or 29% of the
national catch. The only subsector that increased fish landings in 1981 was
the foreign fleet that fishes under license agreements in PDRY waters; it
recorded an increase of 20%.
D. Fish Processing and Marketing
2.13     Fish processing by the traditional subsector is limited to drying and
smoking. An estimated 40% of total landings by this subsector is either
smoked or dried. Best suited for drying are shark and sardine for which
tradition exists; major quantities of dried fish are shipped to the country's
interior where it is used for human consumption, cattle feed or fertilizer.
2.14     The acquisition of the industrial fishing fleet was complemented by
the construction of an extensive chain of modern processing and storage
facilities. At the time of appraisal, two canning factories with a combined
annual capacity of 13.5 million cans, a floating fish meal factory of 500 tons
daily raw material throughput and a 150-ton capacity shore based fish meal
plant were in operation while construction of another 500-ton plant was
nearing completion. For the storage of frozen fish, a chain of about 20 cold
stores with capacities varying from 15 to 1,000 tons can hold up to 4,250
tons. Plans have been drawn up to double this capacity within the next few
years. Utilization of these facilities is generally far below acceptable



-6 -
levels as rarely more than 30% of the designed capacity is used. Indications
are that even with a marked increase in overall fish catch, some of the
facilities will not reach economically acceptable levels of utilization. The
IDA-financed 800-ton cold store at Mukalla (Cr. 370-YDR) after initial
operating problems, is receiving increasing quantities of frozen fish from the
industrial fleet for distribution in the Wadi Hadramawt and for processing in
a nearby cannery.
2.15     Fish marketing was organized as a centralized responsibility under
the National Fish Marketing Corporation (NFMC), the MFW's authority for fish
collection, processing, distribution, and marketing. Before the relaxation of
the fish marketing policy in 1979, a2l fish landed by cooperative vessels as
well as the catches of the industrial fleet were taken over by the NFMC for
processing and distribution in domestic and export markets. NFMC has at its
disposal 25- fresh and dry-fish receiving stations, 45 retail outlets and 20
cold stores. The collection, processing, distribution, marketing and storage
of fish, a highly perishable commodity, require the timely execution of a
series of logistical functions for which the NFMC lacks the technical,
managerial and administrative capabilities. Major bottlenecks have developed
in NFMC's logistical arrangements causing fish collection throughout the
country to be unpredictable and erratic under which particularly the outlying
villages have to suffer. Its failure to balance seasonal as well as regional
fluctuations in fish landings has caused repeated disruptions in fish
supplies. The MFW has realized that the country's widely dispersed fishing
villages, with their highly fluctuating fish landings, do not lend themselves
readily to a centralized fish distribution and marketing system and, starting
in 1979, it allowed the cooperatives to market 40% of their catches directly.
E. Fish Export
2.16     In 1980, the export of fish and fish products amounted to 6,730 tons
with a total value of about US$17 million equivalent. With the exception of
dried fish, shark fins and rock lobster, all fish destined for export is
produced by the industrial fleet. The bulk of fish exports is made up of
cuttlefish, rock lobster, deep sea lobster and red snapper. The main export
markets are Japan and Singapore where most of PDRY's fish exports are repacked
and subsequently distributed under different foreign brand names. The most
promising prospects for PDRY's fisheries lie in the development of export
markets. So far the country has only exploited a small fraction of its export
potential. The main bottlenecks in realizing this unused potential is the
lack of managerial ability and skilled manpower to organize and operate an
efficient export marketing business.
2.17     The catches of the joint venture operations are exported directly by
the foreign partners who take their share by carrier boats to markets of their
choice, generally in their own countries. The MFW has very little control
over the prices that can be realized under such joint venture agreements.
F. Fisheries Manpower Situation
2,18     In 1980, the MFW had a total staff of 3,780, excluding administrators
of fisheries cooperatives. The staff is assigned to the Ministry's various



- 7 -
activities like central administration, fishing, fish processing and storage
operations, joint ventures, support operations and the implementation of
on-going development projects. About 17% of the staff are engineers and
technicians, 23% perform administrative functions and 60% are semi-skilled and
unskilled laborers. About 15% of the Ministry's staff have at best completed
secondary school, 33% are primary school graduates and 52% have received no
formal training. It is estimated that about one third of the Ministry's staff
is illiterate.  Only a small number of those who hold technical or managerial
posts have the qualifications required for the posts they hold.
2.19     Particularly critical is the manpower situation in the industrial
fishing fleet, the fish processing and cold storage facilities. The country
relies heavily on foreign experts, mainly from the Soviet Union and Japan, to
keep at least some of the equipment in operation.  Only a small number of
posts which require substantial technical qualifications are presently held by
Yemenis and even those in many cases do not have the minimum qualifications
required for their position, such as a skipper's certificate or a marine
engineer's ticket. Without a major and sustained effort to increase the
number of qualified technicians, the Ministry will be unable to utilize the
vast industrial investments it has already made and the additional ones which
it has planned to undertake over the next five years.
2.20     Although the demand for trained manpower is much less pressing in the
traditional fisheries subsector because of the familiarity with the present
level of technology, efficient operation of the cooperatives depends on a
cadre of qualified technicians, managers, administrators, accountants and
marketing staff. To improve the performance of this subsector, which is the
country's largest supplier of fish, efforts have to be made to provide better
qualified staff for the cooperatives.
G. Training and Research
2.21     Specific fisheries-related training at higher level is not available
in PDRY. A small number of Yemenis receive training abroad through the
bilateral and multilateral assistance programs. About 75 Yemenis have
received such training primarily in eastern block countries. At present about
70 Yemenis are undergoing post-secondary training, mainly in the Soviet
Union. In 1970, with assistance from the Soviet Union, a secondary level
fisheries training institute was established in Aden. The institute started
off with a two-year training program that was extended to four years in 1980
and to reflect a recent shift in the country's education policy, it is
expected to be extended to five years commencing in 1982. Formal training is
offered in the following subjects: navigation, commercial fishing, fish
processing, marine engineering, electrical engineering, refrigeration and
economics. However, only three of these specializations are offered every
year and are determined by MFW's specific demands. The institute is
accommodated in dilapidated former British army barracks which are beyond
repair; teaching equipment in laboratories and workshops as well as for
training in navigation and electronics is inadequate and obsolete. The
institute does not have a training vessel; students are expected to receive
practical training aboard ships of the industrial fleet during school
vacations. To avoid disruption of regular fishing activities, these vessels
can only accommodate small numbers of trainees at a time, which has proved to



- 8 -
be quite inadequate.  In anticipation of the proposed IDA-financed Fisheries
Manpower Development Center, no efforts have been made lately to rehabilitate
and upgrade the existing training facility. The Government has decided to
discontinue the use of this facility once the proposed new training center
becomes operational.
2.22     Present enrollment of the institute is 192 including 12 girls; about
50 male students live in dormitories under very poor conditions. The
institute has a full time teaching staff of 20 instructors of whom 8 are
expatriates (USSR) who communicate by means of translators. Of the 12 Yemeni
teachers, 6 have received their specialized education in the Soviet Union,
About one third of the training is supposed to be devoted to practical
instruction, but lack of workshop facilities, equipment and training vessels
forces the institute to substitute lectures for much of the practical
training.  Annual admission for each specialization is determined by the MFW
in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, After completion of the second
year, the students decide in which field they wish to specialize. The
drop-out rate is between 40 and 50% for sea-going specializations and about 10
to 15% in other areas.
2.23     The continued severe shortages of trained manpower confirm that the
existing training facility does not meet the technological standards required
for the efficient operation of the vessels and processing and storage
facilities of the industrialized subsector. Without a fundamental
reorientation of the entire training program and the provision of a competent
teaching staff as well as adequate workshops and other training facilities
that can deliver the required level of expertise, the sector will remain
unable to reap the benefits from its past and future investments.
2.24     The MFW is charged with the responsibility of conducting research in
the field of fisheries. Due to the lack of qualified and experienced research
workers, very little progress of any practical value has been made so far.
With financial assistance from the Islamic Bank and technical assistance from
UNESCO, a post-graduate marine research institute is presently being
established in Aden.
H. Fisheries Administration
2.25     In response to the growing importance of the fisheries sector to the
national economy, in 1977 the fisheries administrative and policy-making body,
the Public Corporation for Fish Wealth, was upgraded to Ministry status and
became the Ministry of Fish Wealth. In addition to its general function of
implementing national fisheries policies and its day-to-day administrative
activities, the Ministry has under its jurisdiction four financially
independent corporations; the Yemen Fishing Corporation, which owns and
operates the industrial fishing fleet; the Coastal Fishing Corporation in
charge of rock lobster fishing and processing; the National Fish Marketing
Corporation responsible for domestic and export marketing; and the Yemen Fish
Meal Company, which owns and operates the purse seiner fleet and the fish meal
factories. The Ministry is also the national partner in the joint ventures
with foreign fishing concerns.



- 9 -
2.26     Since 1979, the Ministry's staff has increased from 300 to over 3,500
and following the completion of the development projects presently under
implementation and the planned increase of the industrial fleet, the number of
employees is expected to climb to 4,600 by 1985. Although the majority of the
Ministry's staff are stationed in Aden, a substantial number are employed in
its shore facilities throughout the country. To strengthen the supervision of
the Ministry's many operational and developmental activities, a second Deputy
Minister was appointed in 1980. Besides being in charge of the fish meal,
canning and coastal fishing operations, the new Deputy Minister's main concern
Is the traditional fisheries subsector.
I. Previous IDA Projects in Fisheries
2.27     So far, IDA has financed two fisheries development projects in PDRY.
For the Fisheries I Project (Credit 370-YDR) a US$3.5 million credit was
approved in 1973, To meet part of substantial cost overruns that had
developed, a supplementary credit of JS$1.6 million was approved in 1975. The
principal components of this project were the provision of 100 traditional
fishing vessels for distribution to the cooperatives in the Mukalla area, the
construction of a small fish receiving station in Shihr and an 800-ton cold
store in Mukalla. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) that was
prepared for this project in December 1981 concluded that: (i) completion of
the civil works took almost twice as long as expected and costs were 38%
higher than estimated during reappraisal; (ii) because of poor management and
delays in completing the Mukalla fishing port, the utilization of the shore
facilities remains low; (iii) the financial rate of return and productivity
the fishing vessels procured under the project exceeded appraisal estimates;
(iv) the project succeeded in building an institutional capability for the
administration of fisheries development projects; (v) the ERR of the project
has been tentatively estimated at 13% compared to 35% estimated at
reappraisal; and (vi) the Government failed to enforce agreed cost recovery
procedures for the fishing vessels procured under the project. The PPAR
further concluded as a lesson from the Fisheries I Project that the country's
trained manpower resources and requirements need to be carefully assessed.
The proposed project specifically addresses this issue. For the proposed
project, a different cost recovery procedure has been designed which the
National Bank of Yemen will administer on the basis of automatic deductions
from the beneficiaries bank accounts (para. 6.10). The two shore facilities
at Shihr and Mukalla, although still underutilized, are now well integrated
into the fish production, storage and distribution system in the Mukalla
area. The main consumption centers in the Hadramawt are now for the first
time regularly supplied with frozen fish. This can be considered a major
development achievement in the fisheries sector.
2.28     The Second Fisheries Project (Cr. 932-YDR) was appraised in 1978 on
the basis of a feasibility study financed under the First Fisheries Project.
A credit of US$10 million was approved in 1979 to finance a fisheries cum
general cargo port including fish processing and storage facilities in the Al
Mahra Governorate, the least accessible and one of the poorest regions in the
country. The Project serves nine fishing villages which will, for the fist
time, have an outlet for their catches beyond their own consumption needs.



- 10 -
Because of difficulties in securing the necessary cofinancing, the Project
became effective only in April 1981.  Construction of the port, the Project's
principal component, began in December 1981 and it is expected that some of
the lost time will be recovered.
2.29     Since its involvement in the fisheries sector in PDRY, IDA has
maintained a constructive policy dialogue with the MFW in which it has
stressed the necessity for creating a policy framework that offers the
traditional fishermen sufficient rewards for their strenuous and dangerous
work. The Government has responded to representations made on several
occasions by IDA by raising fish prices and, in 1979, relaxing somewhat its
centrally organized fish marketing policy. The Government has confirmed
during negotiations its recent decision to remove the remaining marketing and
price contraints, leaving the cooperatives virtually free to sell their
catches where and at what price they wish without interference from the MFW.
The newly created commercial freedom, which at the time of appraisal had not
been officially announced, will ensure the full engagement of the artisanal
fishermen in exploiting the rich opportunities that the proposed investments
will open up in their villages.
2.30     The proposed project will build on and complement the initiatives
taken by the Government through assisting it in overcoming two critical
bottlenecks, one the severe shortage of skilled manpower in the industrial
subsector, and two the lack of adequate shore and transport facilities serving
the traditional subsector.
III. PROJECT AREA
3,01     The project's two distinct components will be implemented in
different parts of the country. Aden will be the location for the proposed
Fisheries Manpower Development Center (FMDC). About 36,000 m2 of land on
Labour Island which is located within the Port of Aden have been assigned for
the proiect (See Map No. 16159). The site is ideally suited for the FMDC
mainly because of its location in the capital city, its immediate access to
the sea which allows landing of fish and berthing of training vessels right at
the center's premises, its vicinity to the new major fishing port that is
presently under construction with assistance from the Soviet Union and its
adjacent location to the new Marine Research Institute built with the
assistance of the Islamic Bank and UNESCO. Labour Island is linked to the
mainland via a causeway and is connected to the city's fresh water,
electricity and telephone systems. At present, the site is occupied by a
number of buildings that belonged to a now defunct and abandoned fish meal
plant. Some of the existing buildings will be remodeled and integrated into
the FMDC complex; so will an existing slipway. The site needs to be cleared,
however, from a number of temporary buildings, heaps of scrap and old
abandoned vehicles and other equipment. A large number of shipwrecks, which
have been towed to Labor Island and abandoned there, will have to be removed.
The completion of site preparation for the proposed FMDC will be a condition
of effectiveness. At negotiations, the Government has agreed to remove all
shipwrecks from the sea inmediately surrounding Labor Island by May 31, 1984.



- 11 -
3.02     Four fisheries cooperatives comprising five fisheries villages have
been selected for project investments under the proposed Fisheries Village
Development Component (See Map No. 16158). The selected villages are spread
over a distance of about 600 km, reaching from Ras al Ara, situated 140 km
west of Aden, to Bi'r'Ali, situated 450 km east of Aden. The selected
villages are representative of PDRY's traditional fishermen communities. The
criteria for their selection from the country's 40 fisheries villages,
included: (i) the extent to which the proposed investments were expected to
eliminate the bottlenecks that presently constrain their fisheries operations;
(ii) the presence of rich coastal fishing grounds; (iii) the progressive
attitude of the fishermen; and (iv) reasonable access to consumption centers
for marketing purposes. The proposed investments for the five selected
villages will in fact serve a larger number of fishermen than indicated by
their population, as the village Ras al Ara, for example, is the commercial
center for two satellite villages which will benefit at least indirectly from
the project.
3.03     The five villages have a total population of about 4,000 of whom
about 700 are active fishermen, who operate a total of 70 sambuks and 190
houris. The combined catch of the five villages in 1980 was about 5,000 tons,
which represented about 14% of the total cooperative catch. The coastline
along the five villages is generally flat with sandy or gravel-covered
beaches. All five locations have some shelter either from bays or offshore
reefs. Transro.rt access varies considerably from village to village. While
Bi'r'Ali and ,1 4r  are located east of Aden along the Aden-Mukalla main road,
Fukum, Ras Imr        Ras al Ara are situated west of Aden, of which only Fukum
can be reached o) ad. Ras Imran can only be reached by four-wheel drive
vehicles, using tt .eacla at low tide, and shifting desert tracks further
inland during high tide. Ras al Ara, the most remote and most difficult to
reach village, is locat-d west of Aden close to the entrance of the Red Sea.
Although it can only be reached by passing through rough desert terrain using
shifting sand tracks, its fishermen, who claim to have the richest coastal
fishing grounds west of Aden, have demonstrated remarkable abilities to cope
with their logistical disadvantages. Within their small means, they have
developed a thriving fish marketing business in the adjacent hinterland. By
comparison, Bi'r'Ali, Shuqra and even Fukum have substantial advantages, as
they have relative easy access to major markets like Aden and Mukalla. Shuqra
has the additional advantage of having a fish canning plant located next to
its fish landing site that absorbs the entire mackerel and sardine catches.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Concept
4.01     As a result of the Government's past fisheries development strategy,
which for one decade was almost exclusively directed towards a rapid
industrialization of the country's fish exploitation, two constraints have
emerged that limit fish production at its present modest level, which
represents only about 20-25% of the sector's potential. The first constraint
arose from the rapid build-up of an industrialized fishing fleet and the
numerous investments in highly mechanized facilities that soon outstripped the
sector's very few trained and skilled manpower resources. The Government's
belated efforts to train the fast growing number of technicians,



- 12 -
administrators and managers that were required to maintain and operate the
sector's modern equipment proved to be totally inadequate.  The second
constraint derives from the low development priority the Government has given
the traditional artisanal fisheries subsector, which, despite the lack of
development support, still lands nearly half of the national catch.
Relatively small investments would have sufficed to enable the traditional
subsector to more than double its present production. Severe climatic
conditions and the lack of adequate infrastructure and facilities to preserve
and efficiently move landed fish to consumption centers and centrally located
cold storage plants, have prevented the fisheries cooperatives from expanding
their production beyond present levels. Only if the physical limitations are
removed can the cooperatives respond to the Government's decision to remove
the remaining price and marketing constraints. The proposed project will
address these two critical development constraints.
B. Detailed Features
4.02     The project aims at achieving the above-mentioned objectives through:
(a) establishing a specialized training facility for the fisheries
sector; and
(b) financing an investment program for four selected fisheries
cooperatives, to overcome the presently binding constraints.
Fisheries Manpower Development Center
4.03     PDRY's ambitious policy to industrialize the exploitation of its rich
fish resources through a rapid build-up of highly mechanized and sophisticated
catch, processing and storage facilities has created severe shortages of
technicians in a wide range of specializations. Although it might be
desirable, it would be an impossible task to try to attempt to build a
training facility for the fisheries sector that would meet all the training
requirements for its labor force. To avoid building a facility that would
have to spread its training resources over a wide range of specializations and
that would become too big to produce graduates of high technical, managerial
and leadership qualities, the teaching program of the proposed Fisheries
Manpower Development Center (FMDC) had to be limited. It was decided to
include only such fisheries-related specializations for which training is not
offered by any other training institute in the country. Based on this
criterion, the proposed FMDC will be designed to provide the following range
of training; (a) formal pre-service training that will ultimately lead to
certification of deck officers and marine engineers for the industriaL fishing
fleet and diplomas for managers and supervisors for the shore-based fish
processing and storage facilities; (b) specialized in-service training, to
upgrade and update the skills of those already employed by the ?MF; and (c) an
extension service through which fishermen and cooperative administrators of
the traditional subsector will be trained.



- 13 -
4.04     Pre-service_training.  Formal pre-service training will be provided
for deck and engine officers who have well defined duties and responsibilities
that require internationally recognized qualifications. Future managers and
supervisors of the industrial processing and distribution plants will receive
specialized training to meet the technological, managerial and administrative
requirements of modern, automated equipment and process flows. Formal
pre-service training will be provided in the following specializations:
(a) navigation and commercial fishing;
(b) marine engineering; and
(c) fish handling, processing and distribution.
Beside technicians trained in these specializations, the MFW also has a
continuous demand for electrical and refrigeration technicians. It was
established that the Maala Technical Institute (MTI) in Aden offers a five
year training course for electricians. In terms of level of proficiency and
number of graduates, this course is considered adequate to meet the MFW's
demand. With respect to refrigeration technicians, the situation is less
clear. Both MTI and the MFW's existing fisheries training school offer
training in refrigeration technology. Neither facility delivers the level of
proficiency that is needed to meet the repair and maintenance requirements of
the Ministry's refrigeration plants. A substantial upgrading of the country's
training capability for refrigeration technicians is therefore needed. A
brief study will be undertaken to determine where training for the MFW's
refrigeration technicians will most suitably and most effectively be conducted
and what would be required to bring the training up to the required level.
Terms-of-reference for the study are shown in Annex 1.
4.05     Pre-service training at the FMDC will be organized along the
country's policy for general technical education.  According to this policy,
general technical education follows the completion of the eight-year Unity
School system and is organized as a five-year program. As graduates of the
Unity School, students will enter the FMDC at an average age of 15 years.
Training at the FMDC will be divided into a general and a specialized part.
The general part which covers years one and two, will provide training in
general subjects like Arabic, English, mathematics, physics and chemistry.
The actual fisheries-related subjects will be taught during the specialized
part comprising years three, four and five. A compulsory requirement for the
sea-going occupations will be international certification obtained through
external examinations at internationally-recognized institutions. This
requirement will determine the extent and depth of the pre-service training in
the respective specializations. For future skippers and deck officers, main
emphasis will be on navigation, seamanship, use of fish finding instruments,
fishing gear technology, fishing methods and techniques and fish handling. In
addition to their institutional training, the trainees will have to undergo
between two and three years of training at sea under the guidance of certified
officers before they qualify for taking the examinations required for the
international certification. The minimum training requirements, both
theoretical and practical, and the standards to be met by those who take
command of larger vessels are internationally regulated. The training program
of the FMDC will be designed to meet these requirements.



- 14 -
4.06     Trainiees specializing in marine engineering to become first and
second engineers on board commercial fishing vessels will undergo training in
operation, maintenance, repair and overhauling of main and auxiliary marine
engines and other equipment such as refrigeration plants used on vessels.
Beside theoretical training, heavy emphasis will be placed on practical
instruction in workshop technology, fault diagnosis and rectification.
Following successful completion of the five-year program at the FMDC, future
marine engineers will undergo between two and three years of sea training
under the guidance of certified officers on board the country's commercial
fleet before they qualify to take the international certification examinations
at an internationally recognized institute.
4.07     For future managers and supervisors of shore-based facilities, the
main emDhasis of training will be on fish handling, hygienic practices,
processing and preservation methods, distribution and marketing. In addition,
basic training in microbiology, plant administration and accounting will be
provided. Emphasis will be on practical instruction to be provided at FMDC's
own pilot processing and storage facilities as well as during assignments to
MFW's plants.
4.08     A decade of massive investments in non-traditional, highly mechanized
catch, processing and storage capacities has created critical staffing
problems for which there are no short-term solutions. It will probably take
decades to train all the specialized personnel that is needed to bring all
past and future investments into full production. The initial target for
graduates of the three specialized streams has been set at 15 per year. In
order to reach this number of graduates, annual enrollments of 24 students, in
each of three streams, will be required, given an expected average rate of
attrition of between 30 and 40%. Based on an average class size over the
years of 20 students, total enrollment in the pre-service training program
will be of the order of 300 students.
4.09     It is Government policy to offer students attending specialized
training institutes financial incentives to undergo the lengthy training
programs. Students attending the existing Fisheries Training School receive
allowances of YD 11X5 per month in the case of day students and YD 5 plus free
board and lodging as boarders. During negotiations, an assurance has been
obtained that the FMDC will offer at all times adequate financial incentives
that will attract a sufficiently large number of applicants from whom it may
choose the most promising candidates.
4.10     In-Service Training.  FMDC's in-service training activities will be
designed to help relieve the MFW's most urgent short-term staffing problems.
It wilt be directed on a priority basis toward those areas where existing
educational and professional standards severely limit the sector's
productivity and efficiency. In courses which will range between one and six
months, employees of the MFW's industrial fishing fleet will be trained in
modern fishing technology so that, after completing their training, they can
be assigned to more responsible duties. Similarly, those who now are assigned
to shore-based facilities like fish canning factories, fish meal plants and
cold storage facilities, will receive in-service training for between three



- 15 -
and six months to acquire skills that will enable them to operate their
respective plants more productively. In-service training courses of up to six
months will also be arranged in fields like repair and maintenance of engines
and fishing gear. Administrative personnel and cooperative employees will
receive in-service training of between one to three months in stock management
and distribution and marketing services. In-service training will also be
organized for fishermen of the traditional subsector in areas like small
engine repair and maintenance, fishing gear rigging, mending and maintenance,
and fish handling and preservation. The FMDC will have boarding facilities
for 20 in-service trainees. The majority of the in-service trainees will come
from the Aden-based fleet and shore facilities and the MFW's administrative
units.
4.11      Fisheries Extension Service.   The FMDC will further organize and
operate an extension service with field stations in Aden, Mukalla and
Muhayfif, which are prominent centers of fishing activities. In charge of the
extension service will be a fisheries extension specialist who will be
stationed at the FMDC to organize, direct and oversee the execution of the
service's activities. FMDC's teaching staff will provide advice and technical
back-stopping to the extension service, and its administrative facilities will
lend its support to the service. Extension workers will preferably be
recruited from the geographic area of their future assignment. After
undergoing intensive in-service training at the FMDC in fish handling methods
and techniques as well as in boat and engine repair and maintenance, the team
will be stationed in their assigned areas of operation. The main channel for
delivering their services to the local fishermen will be the fisheries
cooperatives. Each extension team will be organized as a mobile unit, to
allow it to deal effectively with fishermen's problems even in the more
outlying fishing hamlets. An expatriate fisheries extension advisor will be
appointed, not later than January 1985, for a period of three years to help
organize the service.
4.12     Teaching Staff.  The success with which the FMDC will deliver the
intended training to the various groups of trainees will depend primarily on
the quality of its teaching staff. Only well trained and experienced teachers
will be able to prepare the trainees of the FMDC adequately for their future
assignments in which they will assume responsibility for human lives and
valuable sophisticated equipment. Therefore, only those who have undergone
thorough training, preferably at an acknowledged institution in their
respective field for such an assignment, will be eligible for assignment as
teachers to the FMDC. A formal requirement will be a masters degree or
equivalent in their respective field. At present, only very few Yemenis meet
this requirement. To assure FMDC of an adequate teaching staff, a major
teacher training program will have to be launched well before the center
becomes operational.
4.13     The required number of teachers for the general and specialized
subjects has been estimated at 40 and the number of instructors for the
center's laboratories, pilot plants and chart rooms will be 5. It has been
calculated that a total of 32 man-years of overseas training will be required
to prepare the teaching staff for their assignments in the FMDC. Based on the
outline provided in the Project File, a detailed teacher training program will



- 16 -
be prepared by an internationally-recruited fisheries training advisor,
immediately following project approval. Actual overseas training of FMDC's
future teachers should begin within three months of project effectiveness.
The timing of the teacher training program is critical to ensure that the
required teaching staff will be available when the teaching facilities are
completed or that those who have been specially trained for an assignment in
the FMDC are not diverted to other jobs because the center is not yet
operational.  During negotiations, the scope, duration and timing of the
teacher training program has been agreed.
4.14     Technical Assistance.  For the preparation and early execution of
FMDC's training programs, the advice and assistance of experienced and
qualified expatriate specialists will be required. The sequence of technical
assistance efforts should begin with the assignment of a fisheries training
advisor who would design the teacher training program. Terms of reference and
the required qualifications and experience of the fisheries training advisor
are shown in Annex 2. His assignment, which will become effective not later
than January 1983, will include the review of suitable candidates for teacher
training, design of required training programs and placement at suitable
training institutes overseas. The second phase of the technical assistance
program will begin towards the end of the construction period when detailed
curricula, syllabi and timetables for the various teaching programs need to be
prepared. In addition to the efforts made under the project to prepare a
Yemeni teaching staff who ultimately would become fully responsible for
running the FIDC, it would be necessary to supplement the local teaching staff
during the initial years of FMDC's operation with expatriate teachers
particularly in the fields of navigation, fishing technology and gear, marine
engineering, fish processing and marketing, and fisheries extension. A total
of 123 man-months of technical assistance will be required to fully establish
the training programs of the FMDC. During negotiations, the employment of the
necessary technical assistance staff has been agreed.
4.15     Training Facilities.  The FMDC will have facilities for theoretical
and practical training, for recreation as well as for the accommodation of
students and teachers. It will be equipped with all necessary teaching
materials for theoretical and practical training, including training vessels
and library. The FMDC will be fully furnished and will be provided with all
facilities to assure an efficient and beneficial operation. The feasibility
study for the FMDC is based on a single storey design for its building program
which makes best use of the available land and which represents the least-cost
solution. The proposed design provides for clusters of buildings which allow
for the establishment of controlled micro environments that create a pleasant
and protected atmosphere throughout the premises of the center. Some of the
existing buildings on Labour island will be renovated and incorporated into
the building program to house the center's practical training facilities such
as workshops, marine engineering units, the fish handling and processing plant
and stores. The net area of existing buildings is approximately 1,010 m2.
New buildings with a total net area of about 5,100 m2 will be constructed,
The building program will include five general classrooms, three labora-
tory/demonstration classrooms and specialized laboratory areas catering for
navigation marine engineering and communications, food science, biology and
biochemistry. An administration block will house the center's adminis-



- 17 -
trative offices, teacher rooms and a library. A student center will be
equipped with kitchen, dining room, recreation and meeting facilities. One
dormitory will accommodate 20 female students and two dormitory units will be
built for 33 male students each. Staff housing will include 8 bachelor units
and 8 two-bedroom family units equipped with bathroom, kitchen, dining and
living areas.
4.16     The FMDC will be equipped with a fish landing platform connected by a
58 m approach causeway, a captain's platform for training in the use of navi-
gational instruments and a training mast. Outdoor facilities will include an
assembly area with a covered stage, recreation areas for volley and basketball
and parking space for buses and private cars. After excavation, level- ling
and filling, the site allocated for the construction of the FMDC will comprise
32,000 m2. Detailed description of FMDC's construction and fur- nishing
program is contained in the Project File. During negotiations, the building
program for FMDC has been agreed.
4.17     Training Vessels.  Two locally-built modified sambuks will be
provided to the FMDC for training purposes. The training vessels will be
equipped with basic navigational aids, echo sounder, radio, a combination of
different fishing gear and safety equipment. To prepare those students
seeking seagoing professions adequately for their future assignments, an
estimated 20 to 30% of their training time will have to be devoted to sea
training. Aboard FMDC's training vessels, which will accommodate up to 12
students each, students will receive their initial sea training in the form of
day trips in coastal waters during which they will be assigned crew duties.
During non-fishing time, students will take part in the maintenance of the
vessels hulls, engines, equipment'and gear. Following satisfactory completion
of initial sea training, the second phase sea training will be conducted
aboard larger commercial fishing vessels of the MFW's industrial fleet.
Sea-training is designed in two phases to allow students to be properly
introduced and prepared for the long and arduous tasks at sea and to reduce
the rate of attrition following exposure to the sea to an acceptable level.
Provision for Teaching Facility for Refrigeration Technicians
4.18     Based on the brief study referred to in para. 4.04, the most suitable
and cost effective solution for training of refrigeration technicians for the
MIFW will be decided. The estimated minimum financial requirement for
providing satisfactory training of refrigeration technicians for the MFW has
been included in the project, The Government has agreed during negotiations
to cover all costs for the training facility for refrigeration technicians
that are not covered by the financial provisions included in the project.
Fisheries Village Development Component.
4.19     The principal objective of this project component is to develop four
fisheries cooperatives, comprising five villages, from their present function
as production units of the NFMC into fully independent commercial enterprises
that undertake all fisheries related activities from catch to final retail
marketing under their own responsibility. This transfer of decision-making
authority and profit opportunities from a centralized government agency to



- 18 -
decentralized village based commercial enterprises, provides the system with
more flexibility and better incentives for exploiting the country's rich
coastal fish resources. For the cooperatives to be able to take over the
required functions such as fish handling, icing, storing and shipping, the
necessary facilities need to be provided. Based on the existing
infrastructure and available facilities, investment programs have been
designed for each of the four cooperatives. The proposed investment packages
will generally include a fish receiving shed equipped with platform scale,
brine tanks and fish boxes where the landed catch is weighed, cleaned, gutted
and iced; an ice plant with storage capacity; a chill room and a fleet of
insulated trucks. To what extent cooperatives will be able to deliver fish
through their systems, will depend very much on the condition of their fishing
fleets. To allow the maximum number of fishing days, the investment packages
will include vessel repair and maintenance facilities as well as electric
generators. A detailed description of the entire investment program for each
of the five villages is given in the Project File.
4.20     To facilitate the flow of fish from the vessels to the handling and
storage areas, in some of the fisheries villages, adjustments and improvements
to the existing fisheries-related infrastructure are necessary. In Ras Imran,
a causeway with a landing platform and a 700 m approach road will be built; in
Shuqra, a 45 m landing jetty and an independent fresh water supply system will
be installed; and the existing ice plant and cold store in Bi'r'Ali will be
connected by a 130 m causeway and landing platform with a fish off-loading
area.
Status of Engineering
4.21     Two separate feasibility studies were prepared for the two project
components. The two Swedish consulting firms SCAAN and SCANDIACONSULT jointly
undertook the feasibility study for the FMDC and the British firm of ROSE and
WATKINSON prepared the study for the Fisheries Village Development Component.
Both feasibility studies include preliminary designs and bills of quantities
on the basis of which project costs have been calculated. For both project
components, detailed designs need to be prepared for tendering. In order not
to delay project implementation unnecessarily, consulting engineers will be
retained prior to project effectiveness for preparation of detailed designs
and contract documents as well as to assist in advertising and tender
evaluation. The necessary funds for these services will be advanced under the
Project Preparation Facility. During negotiations, an assurance has been
obtained that consulting engineers will be appointed prior to Board
presentation on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, for the preparation of
construction designs, for tendering and tender evaluation.
C. Cost Estimates
4.22     The estimated costs of the project including contingencies are YD 7.3
million (US$21.4 million equivalent). The foreign exchange component is
YD 4.8 (US$14.0 million equivalent) or 66% of the total project costs. The
FMDC project component represents 59% of total project costs and the Fisheries
Village Development Component accounts for the balance. A summary of the
project cost estimates is given in Table 4.1; details are shown in Annex 3.



- 19 -
Table 4.1 : PROJECT COSTS 1l
Local   Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total   Foreign
Exchange
------YD thousand -------       ------US$ thousand------          %
A. Fisheries Manpower
Development Center
Civil Works         1,080.0    528.7   1,608.7   3,153.8   1,543.8    4,697.6    33
Training Vessels        10.3      89.7      100.0       30.0      262.0       292.0    90
Furnishings              7.0      62.6       69.6       20.4      182.9       203.3    90
Teaching Equipment    14.3        57.1       71.4       41.7      166.7       208.4    80
Teacher Training        58.9    304.4       363.3      172.0      889.0    1,061.0    84
Vehicles                 4.5      86.5       91.0       13.3      252.7       266.0    95
Technical Assistance  53.0    309.2         362.2      154.8      903.0    1,057.8    85
Design & Construc-
tion Supervision       12.7    215.1       227.8       37.0      628.0       665.0    94
Incremental Opera-
ting Costs            173.8      67.5      241.3      507.5      197.2       704.7    28
Refrigeration
Training Facility    12.0    113.0         125.0       35.0      330.0       365.0    90
Sub-Total           1,426.5  1,833.8   3,260.3   4,165.5   5,355.3    9,520.8    56
B. Village Development
Civil Works            374.3  1,086.0   1,460.3   1,094.4   3,175.6    4,270.0    74
Equipment               17.1    326.1       343.3       50.0      953.8    1,003.8    95
Vehicles                 6.9    129.6       136.5       20.2      378.9       399.1    95
Technical Assistance  10.0        56.7       66.7       29.2      165.8       195.0    85
Design & Construc-
tion Supervision       10.3    122.4       132.7       30.0      358.0       388.0    92
Sub-Total              418.5  1,721.0   2,139.5   1,223.8   5,032.1    6,255.9    80
Base Costs              1,845.0  3,554.8   5,399.8   5,389.3  10,387.4   15,776.7    66
Contingencies:
Physical              189.4    335.7       525.1      553.1      980.3    1,533.4    64
Price                487.4    904.9   1,392.3   1,423.1   2,642.4    4,065.5    65
TOTAL COSTS       2,521.8  4,795.4   7,317.2   7,365.5  14,010.1   21,375.6    66
/1 Figures subject to rounding.



- 20 -
4.23     The costs of imported equipment, precast or prefabricated buildings
and materials reflect current international prices. The costs of buildings,
roads and other civil works to be locally constructed have been calculated on
the basis of the costs of similar buildings presently under construction in
the country.  The provisions made to finance preparation of final designs for
the building components and supervision of construction are considered
adequate.
4.24     An addition of 10% to December 1981 base costs has been applied as
physical contingencies for all civil works for the FMDC and 15% for the
Fisheries Village Development Component for which available cost estimates are
less detailed and confirmed. To cover unforeseen alterations and additions to
the wide range of equipment to be procured under the project, physical
contingencies have been applied ranging from 5 to 15% depending on the nature
of the equipment. Price contingencies, on local and foreign costs, range from
11.1% for the first year of project implementation to 31.0% in the last year,
for an overall price increase of 25.8% over base costs. Annual rates used for
calculating price contingencies for local and foreign costs are 8.5% for 1982,
7.5% for 1983-85 and 6% for 1986. Total contingencies, physical and price,
are about 35% of base costs. Import duties, taxes and other levies are not
included in the project costs as imports for public investments are exempted
from payment of such fees.
4.25     For the 123 man-months of technical assistance to be provided for the
FMDC, average costs of US$8,600 per man-month have been estimated, which
include external travel, but exclude local transportation and housing which
are estimated to cost about US$15,000 per man-year. For the Fisheries Village
Development Component, 33 man-month services of expatriate technicians will be
provided at average costs of US$6,000 per man-month, net of local
transportation and housing.
4.26     For the FMDC, project costs include one and a half years of
incremental operating costs, reflecting the gradual absorption of annual
operating costs in the recurrent budget of the MFW. Incremental revenues of
those cooperatives participating in the Fisheries Village Development
Component are estimated to improve sufficiently fast to meet their incremental
operating expenses.
4.27     The investment cost per student-place at the FMDC, counting 300 pre-
and 20 in-service students, has been calculated at about US$26,000, not
counting teacher training and technical assistance related to the training
program. The reason for this comparatively high investment cost per
student-place is the highly specialized nature of the training facility which,
among other features, requires a 58 m landing jetty, special fish processing
facilities and specialized laboratories for navigation, radio communication
and training vessels.
D. Financing
4.28     Financing for the project will be arranged as follows:  IDA will
provide a credit of SDR 5.40 million (US$6.0 million equivalent); from the EEC



- 21 -
Special Action Account US$3.4 million equivalent will be made available;
US$5.0 million will come from IFAD; and the Government will contribute from
its own resources the equivalent of US$7.0 million. The Government has
approached a number of other co-financiers for participation in this project
in order to reduce its own financial commitment which, with 33% of total
project costs, is quite high.
4.29     The IDA credit for which the Government will assume the foreign
exchange risk, will be made on standard terms. The funds from the EEC Special
Action account and from IFAD will be made available at conditions similar to
those of the IDA Credit.
4.30     The US$6.0 million equivalent IDA credit will finance 28% of total
project cost, US$5.4 million of which will finance 39% of the foreign exchange
cost and US$0.6 million will finance 8% of local cost. The US$5.0 million
equivalent IFAD loan will finance 23% of total project cost, US$4.2 million of
which will finance 30% of foreign exchange cost and US$0.8 million will
finance 11% of local cost. The US$3.4 million equivalent allocation from the
EEC Special Action Account will finance 16% of total project cost or 24% of
foreign exchange cost. The Government's contribution of US$7.0 million
equivalent will finance 33% of total project cost, of which US$1.0 million
will finance 7% of foreign exchange cost and US$6.0 million will finance 81%
of local cost. The allocation of the funds has been arranged as follows:



- 22 -
Table 4.2:  PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Project Component           Government        EEC          IFAD             IDA         TOTAL
US$M'o    %  US$M'o    %  US$M'o    %  US$M'o    %  UStM'o
Fisheries Manpower
Development Center
Civil Works                2.80   46        -    -      1.70   27    1.70   27    6.20    100
Equipment, Furniture,
Material and Vehicles   0.10   10          -    -      0.90   90      -      -      1.00    100
Training Vessels           0.10   25        -    -      0.30   75      -      -      0.40    100
Teacher Training           0.20   16        -    -      0.55   42    0.55   42    1.30    100
Consultants' Services    0.50   22          -    -      0.90   39    0.90   39    2.30    100
Incremental Operating
Costs                     0.60   54                    0.25   23    0.25   23    1.10    100
Refrigeration Training
Facility                    -    -                       -    -      0.40  100    0.40    100
Subtotal             4.30   34             -      4.60   36    3.80   30   12.70    100
Fisheries Village
Development Component
Civil Works                2.40   41    3.40    59        -    -        -    -      5.80    100
Equipment and Vehicles   0.20   10          -     -       -    -      1.80   90    2.00    100
Consultants' Services    0.10   10                -    0.40   45    0.40   45    0.90    100
Subtotal               2.70   31    3.40    39   0.40    5    2.20   25    8.70    100
TOTAL             7.00   33    3.40    16   5.00   23    6.00   28   21.40    100
1  Contingencies are added to each component, small discrepancies
are due to rounding.



- 23 -
4.31     The actual US Dollar equivalent of the EEC Special Action Account
credit might differ at the time of disbursement from the US$3.4 million stated
in this report, as this amount is composed by contributions made of the nine
EEC member countries in their own currencies which are subject to foreign
exchange fluctuations if converted into US Dollar equivalents. Should the
Dollar equivalent of the EEC Special Action Account credit at the time of
disbursement be less than the required Dollar amount, then the Government will
pay from its own resources the remaining balance.
4.32     Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit will be the signing of
the loan and credit agreements with IFAD and the EEC respectively, and the
appointment by IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD
loan.
4.33     The Government will initially finance the entire investment program
proposed for the Fisheries Village Development Component from the proceeds of
the IDA credit, the IFAD loan, the EEC credit and its own contribution.
Ultimately, however, the participating cooperatives will, through the proposed
cost recovery arrangements, contribute the equivalent of US$4.26 million or
607 towards the financing of this project component (para. 6.10).
E. Procurement
4.34     IDA's procurement guidelines will apply also to the IFAD loan and EEC
credit which are administered by IDA. Contracts will be awarded through ICB
according to IDA's Guidelines For Procurement of March 1977 for the civil
works of the FMDC and the Fisheries Village Development Component totalling
US$12.2 million. The bidding documents for these contracts will be subject to
IDA's prior review of procurement documentation. An advance of US$125,000
under the Project Preparation Facility has been approved for finalizing the
detailed designs and bidding documents. The equipment for the Fisheries
Village Development Component as well as the equipment and installations for
the FMDC totalling US$2.2 million, will be procured through ICB. As the
availability of spare parts and repair services in PDRY is restricted, it
would be advisable to purchase under the project, vehicles and fishing vessels
for training of those makes that are already available in the country.
Accordingly, procurement of vehicles and vessels totalling Us$1.2 million
under limited international tendering procedures on the basis of not less than
three quotations from suppliers in eligible countries are justified. Teacher
training totalling US$1.3 million will involve the education of Yemeni
nationals at foreign training institutions as preparation for future teaching
assignments at the FMDC. The selection of training institutions in eligible
countries for the placement of Yemeni trainees will be recommended by an
internationally-recruited training advisor and will be approved by IDA.
Consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the
use of consultants of August 1981.
F. Disbursement
4.35     The project's disbursement period will be five calendar years.
Disbursements for all civil works, acquisition of furniture, equipment,
vehicles, training vessels and for teacher training are planned to be
completed after year three of the project. Disbursements during years four
and five are expected only for technical assistance services in terms of



- 24 -
expatriate consu'ltants and teachers who will be needed to assure an efficient
execution of the project's intended activities during their initial operating
phase as well as for incremental operating costs. Disbursements are planned
as follows:
IDA
Fisheries Manpower Development Center
(a) 25% of expenditures on civil works to be procured under ICB;
(b) 50% of foreign expenditures on teacher training;
(c) 48% of foreign expenditures on consultants' services;
(d)  30% of expenditures on incremental operati-ng costs; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures on refrigeration equipment for
training.
Fisheries Village Development Component
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) on equipment and vehicles to be procured through ICB and
through limited international tendering; and
(b) 46% of foreign expenditures on consultants' services.
IFAD
Fisheries Manpower Development Center
(a) 25% of expenditures on civil works to be procured under ICB;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) on equipment, furniture, materials and vehicles to be
procured under ICB and limited international tendering;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) on training vessels to be procured through limited
international tendering;
(d) 50% of foreign expenditures on teacher training;
(e) 52% of foreign expenditures on consultants's services; and
(f) 30% of expenditures on incremental operating costs.
Fisheries Village Development Component
52% of foreign expenditures on consultants' services.
EEC
Fisheries Village Development Component
75% of expenditures on civil works to be procured under ICB.



- 25 -
4.36     Disbursements will be made against normal documentation, except for
the incremental operating costs which will be made against statements of
expenditure. The estimated annual disbursements of the IDA credit, IFAD loan
and EEC credit by IDA fiscal years are as follows:
Table 4.3: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
FY83        FY84         FY85         FY86        FY87
(US $ million)
Annual;
IDA     0.6          2.6          2.5          0.2          0.1
IFAD    0.6          1.8          2.2          0.3          0.1
EEC     1.0          1.5           0.9          -            -
Cumulative;
IDA     0.6          3.2          5.7          5.9          6.0
IFAD    0.6          2.4          4.6          4.9          5.0
EEC     1.0          2.5           3.4          -            -
4.37     It is expected that disbursement will be completed by
December 31, 1987, and the closing date of the IDA credit will be
June 30, 1988. A project implementation schedule (bar chart) is shown in
Annex 6.
4.38     The disbursement profile for the proposed project has been compared
with those for the IDA and EMENA education sector as well as those of all IDA
credits made to PDRY. Disbursement profiles for those lending operations show
the following characteristics;
50% Disbursed:
Class                    No. of Projects  Year from date of Approval
IDA education projects                  91             5th year, 1st half
EMENA education projects                16              5th year, 2nd half
PDRY all projects                       15              3rd year, 2nd half
4.39     Under the proposed project, it is estimated that 50% of the credit
will be disbursed during the second year, second half, from the date of Board
approval. This project is expected to disburse more rapidly because of the
advanced stage of engineering which will allow an early start of
construction. As the building program for the FMDC will be constructed on a
single site right inside the Port of Aden, several foreign contractors have
already expressed interest in executing these works, which is not the case
with other IDA-financed education projects in PDRY. Disbursements under the
First Fisheries Project were delayed because no foreign contractor was
interested in the civil works component of the project, which ultimately had
to be carried out by a local contractor who took more than twice the estimated
time to complete the works. The effectiveness and disbursements of the Second
Fisheries Project were delayed because of difficulties in securing
co-financing. A co-financier had initially agreed to contribute to the
financing of the project; however, this agreement, eventually, did not
materialize and another co-financier had therefore to be found, which delayed
project effectiveness by more than two years.



- 26 -
G. Environmental Effects
4.40     The proposed project will restl-t in major improvements in the
environment of Labour Island, the site of the FMDC. At present, Labour Island
is a large junk yard, littered with heaps of scrap from discarded equipment
and abandoned vessels. In its present condition, this valuable land inside
the Port of Aden is an eyesore and unfit for any meaningful use. For the
project, Labour Island will be cleared of all junk and the abandoned vessels
obstructing the shore line will be removed. A seawall will protect the island
and the proposed building clusters are designed to create protected
micro-environments which will create a pleasant atmosphere and allow the
growing of plants, none of which exist presently on the island. The
engineering designs for the FMDC includes satisfactory provisions for sewage
facilities and the disposal of refuse of the pilot fish processing plant.
4.41     With respect to the Fisheries Village Development Component, the
project will result in higher fish landings which, in turn, will produce more
refuse such as fish heads and guts, which are normally left right on the
shore. The untreated refuse, although it pollutes the air of the
surroundings, does not pose any safety hazards as it dries and decomposes
quickly under the intense heat. No significant deterioration of the
environmental conditions are expected as a result of the project in the
participating villages.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization During Construction Period
5.01     The MFW will be responsible for project implementation, which is
expected to last five years. The proposed project will benefit from an
institution building effort that was initiated under the First Fisheries
Project and continued and expanded under the Second Fisheries Project. A
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established under the supervision of the
Assistant Deputy Minister of Planning and developed into a rather efficient
organization that has gained experience in dealing with IDA, expatriate
project managers, consulting engineers, contractors and co-financiers. Its
competent accounting and administrative staff is familiar with all necessary
requirements and procedures. For the proposed project, a similar PIU will be
established which will benefit from the operational and administrative
experience the MFW has made with implementing the earlier two IDA-financed
projects.
5.02     During the construction period of the project, the functions and
responsibilities of project management will consist almost exclusively of
supervision of construction of civil works and the procurement of equipment
and furnishings. A qualified project manager will be appointed and assisted
by a firm of consulting engineers in coordinating all technical aspects of the
project. During negotiations, it has been agreed that a PIU will be
established and a well-qualified local project manager and an experienced
accountant will be appointed not later than December 31, 1982 whose
qualifications and terms of reference would be satisfactory to IDA.



- 27 -
B. Organization and Management of Project Operations
5.03     Once the building program of the FMDC has been completed, the
facilities will be handed over to the training department in the MFW. In the
case of the Fisheries Village Development Component, the respective
cooperatives will take possession of the shore facilities once they have been
installed.
5.04     The MFW will appoint a director of the FMDC not later than September
1984. In January 1985, that is about 9 months before the FMDC begins its
training activities, the MFW will appoint an internationally-recruited
fisheries training advisor as technical coordinator. He will be responsible
for preparing and organizing FMDC's training program and establishing its
general rules and regulations. To fully integrate FMDC's education function
into the country's overall education system, FMDC's training activities need
to be closely coordinated with the Ministry of Education, which is responsible
for implementing the country's education policies. A registrar will be
appointed not later than January 1985, who will be in charge of all day-to-day
administrative matters and who will be responsible for the recruitment of
trainees, in accordance with the FMDC's recruitment policy. For the
organization and implementation of FMDC's training programs, two deputy
directors will be appointed, one for pre-service training and one for
in-service training and extension. Their appointment will become effective
not later than January 1985.
5.05     The guiding principle for operating the Fisheries Village Development
Component is based on the Government's recent decision to remove the remaining
marketing and price constraints for fisheries cooperatives. The new policy
implies that the cooperatives will become fully independent commercial
enterprises with all benefits and obligations that come with such commercial
freedom. To assist the fisheries cooperatives during the transition from a
Government mandated and regulated joint production effort to an independently
run and managed commercial undertaking, an internationally recruited financial
and accounting advisor will be appointed not later than September 1984 by the
MFW's cooperative department to work out operational guidelines for the
cooperatives. He will assist the cooperatives in dealing with financial
matters in particular with respect to cost recovery procedures for the
investments financed under the project (para. 6.10). To assist the
cooperatives in operating and maintaining their newly acquired equipment, an
internationally-recruited mechanical engineer will be appointed by the
cooperative department in June 1984 for a period of three years who will also
train the cooperatives' mechanics.
5.06     During negotiations, assurances have been obtained for the
appointment of a director of the FMDC whose qualifications and terms of
reference would be acceptable to IDA, and the appointment of a registrar and
two deputy directors; an internationally-recruited fisheries training advisor
will be appointed and assigned as technical coordinator; and an inter-
nationally-recruited financial advisor and an internationally-recruited
mechanical engineer will be appointed for the Fisheries Village Development
Component.



- 28 -
C. Accounting and Auditing
5.07     The PIU to be established in the MFW will keep separate accounts for
the project which, by law, are subject to auditing by the country's Central
Board of Auditing. An agreement has recently been reached between the
Government and IDA according to which the Central Board of Auditing will give
priority to auditing of IDA-project accounts. With this assurance, it may be
expected that auditing of project accounts will be completed 4 to 6 months
after their submission. The project's accounting work will benefit from the
accounting experience the MFW has made in implementing the two earlier
IDA-financed projects and no problems or delays are therefore expected.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.08     During the project's construction phase, progress will be monitored
by the engineering consultants who will be appointed to the PIU for
construction supervision. The teacher training program, which will be
initiated by a consultant training advisor and executed during the project's
construction phase, will be monitored by the PIU under the consultant's
guidance. Once the project becomes operational, FMDC's achievements will be
monitored and evaluated by the MFW's training department to ensure the
continuing relevance of FMDC's training programs and curricula. The MFW's
training department will monitor FMDC's enrollment, attrition and graduation
of trainees in the various education programs and will carry out a tracer
study for the analysis of job placements for five years following FMDC's first
graduates. An assurance has been obtained during negotiations that such a
tracer study will be carried out. The training department will further
monitor and evaluate FMDC's fisheries extension program. These monitoring and
evaluation activities will be administered in close cooperation with the
registrar's office of the FMDC.
5.09     A continual monitoring program for the Fisheries Village Development
Component will be carried out by the cooperative department to evaluate the
changes, effects and benefits resulting from the investments made in the
participating fisheries cooperatives. The consultant mechanical engineer to
be appointed for the cooperatives' initial support, will assist the
cooperative department in developing simple performance criteria for measuring
the level of utilization of the cooperatives' newly acquired facilities.
5.10     The planning department of the MFW will, in cooperation with the
education and cooperative departments, prepare a completion report and submit
it to the Association within six months of the credit closing date. An
assurance to this effect has been obtained during negotiations.
E. International Commodity Agreements
5.11     Fish is not governed by international commodity agreements, and the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department has, therefore, advised
that consultation with international commodity organizations is not required.



- 29 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
6.01     As a result of project investments, fish landings in the four
participating cooperatives are expected to increase from their present level
of 5,000 tons to about 6,500 tons at full development. The severe climatic
conditions prevailing along PDRY's coast do not allow much larger fish
landings than those presently achieved by the cooperatives. Only major
investments in preservation and transportation facilities can overcome the
system's limiting constraints. The Ras al Ara Cooperative, because of its
locational disadvantage, could not at all benefit from the Government's
earlier efforts to liberalize its fish marketing policy. It will, therefore,
benefit most from project investments; its incremental production is estimated
to reach 50% of average present catch rates. Conversely, the Al Shaab
cooperative, located close to Aden, has despite other limitations, been able
to exploit the partial marketing freedom to a much larger extent, and can
therefore expect its production to increase by only about 20%, the lowest
expected increase in benefits among the four cooperatives. Shuqra and
Bi'r'Ali Cooperatives are expected to increase their fish production by 30%
over the without-project situation (Annex 4).
6.02     The existing preservation and marketing constraints do not only limit
the volume of fish landings by the cooperatives but also, to a large extent,
affect adversely the unit value of the average catch which contains a
relatively high proportion of low grade fish, such as sardines, which is
sun-dried and sold as cattle feed or fertilizer and, therefore, does not pose
a preservation problem. As the lack of preservation and transport facilities
does not allow a significant change in the average catch composition, the
cooperatives cannot fully realize the price premiums that are paid for fresh
fish in markets where the NFMC sells frozen fish from its cold stores. The
proposed handling, storage and marketing facilities will enable the
cooperatives to adjust their fishing targets towards higher value catches.
The following shifts to higher quality species are expected as result of
project investments:
Present/          Future/
Without Project   With Project
Category I                                        20%               40%
(Tuna, King fish, etc.)
Category II                                       60%               50%
(Indian mackerel, Shark, etc.)
Category III                                      20%               10%
(Sardines, etc.)



- 30 -
6.03     In addition to larger landings and more valuable catches, the
proposed investments will lead to a major reduction in the present spoilage
rate which is 40% for fish of categories I and II and 10% for category III.
At full development, the average spoilage rate is expected to drop to 15%.
The combined effect of larger landings and reduced spoilage will increase the
combined sales volume of the four cooperatives from 3,300 to 5,500 tons, which
represents an increase of 66%.
B. Marketing and Prices
6.04     One of the major benefits of the proposed investment program for the
cooperatives will be their reduced dependence on the centralized fish
collection and distribution system of the NFMC, which never has developed the
logistical capabilities to move the catches effectively from points of landing
to points of final distribution. Particularly for the far away cooperatives
like Ras Al Ara, the dependence on NFMC's unreliable fish collection
arrangements frequently leads to interruptions in normal fishing operations
and excessive spoilage losses. The erratic fish collection patterns of the
NFMC has created uncertain and highly fluctuating income expectations among
fishermen, which has not helped MFW's efforts to increase fish production in
the artisanal sector. The partial liberalization of the marketing and price
policies introduced in 1979 and the Government's recent decision to abolish
the remaining price and marketing constraints in 1981 must be seen as an
effort by the MFW to reduce the cooperatives' dependence on the NFMC.
6.05     Fishing along PDRY's coast is highly seasonal resulting in widely
fluctuating fish landings during the year. Even with the project, the four
cooperatives at peak season will be unable to sell their entire catches at
prices above NFMC's procurement prices. During such periods, the cooperatives
will still have to depend on NFMC as an outlet of last resort for at least
part of their catches. Also, inadequate information as to the price
elasticity of demand for fish suggests a cautious projection of future fish
prices. For purposes of the economic and financial evaluation of the project,
it has been assumed that the Ras al Ara, Shuqra and Bi'r'Ali Cooperatives will
sell on average 60% of their annual catches of categories I and II fish at not
more than 50% above the NFMC's procurement prices and that the balance will be
sold to the NFMC at its procurement prices. No increase in the price of
category III fish has been assumed. For the Al Shaab Cooperative, it has been
assumed that the project will only lead to a 30% increase in the amount of
fish sold at 50% above NFMC's fish prices. Its proximity to Aden, the
country's largest fish market, will enable this cooperative to exploit the
newly obtained marketing freedom to some extent even without the project. In
view of the fact that fresh fish in the private market frequently sells at
twice NFMC's prices, the assumptions made above are realistic.



- 31 -
6.06     rhe fish producer and consumer prices, used in the financial analysis
of the project are tabulated below:
Table 6.1: Cooperative Fish Prices
(YD/ton)
Al Shaab       Ras al Ara, Shuqra, Bi'r'Ali  All Cooperatives
Without Project           Without Project              With Project
Producer Consumer       Producer       Consumer    Producer Consumer
Category I       230      400             200           350           260     455
Category II      195       345            170           300           220      390
Category III      40       170             40           170            40      170
6.07     In the absence of reliable household consumption data, no estimates
of fish consumption for the country exist. Along the coast, people depend on
fish as their main source of animal protein but even there supplies are
frequently not adequate, as the regular shortages in Aden and other major
coastal consumption centers demonstrate. Dried and canned fish are
traditionally consumed in the interior towns of the Hadramawt. A recent study
by NFMC suggests that in Seyun, the major town of the Hadramawt area, only 25%
of potential demand for fresh fish is presently satisfied. As in many places
in PDRY no fish retail outlets presently exist, it is safe to assume that
potential demand is substantially above present effective demand. It is
expected that the insulated trucks to be supplied to the cooperatives under
the project will not only help to assure a steady and adequate supply to
existing markets but will extend the marketing of fish into areas that are not
reached at present. Finally, incremental project sales of about 2,200
tons/year represent only about 11% of total NFMC domestic sales of 20,000 tons
in 1980; the estimated increment will be produced about five years from now,
at which time domestic demand will have further expanded. It is highly
unlikely that the cooperatives will experience marketing difficulties on
account of insufficient domestic demand. Furthermore, the NFMC plans to
increase its exports substantially. To encourage cooperatives to supply high
quality fish in exportable condition, the NFMC will pay the cooperatives for
their exportable supplies whatever prices actually have been realized in
export markets, minus a 5% commission.
C. Cost Recovery
6.08     The investments proposed for the four cooperatives are of a different
nature. They are justified on the basis of increased fish production, which
directly benefits certain groups of fishermen. Consequently, the costs of
such investments should be recovered from those who directly benefit from
them. There are, however, differences in degree to which the fishermen
benefit from such investments. Those investments, which will eliminate the
constraints that presently limit fish landings like chill rooms, ice plants,
and insulated trucks, are directly accountable for the projected increases in
the fishermen's income. The costs of such investments will be recovered in
full at the prevailing interest rate of 5.5% over a period of up to 10 years,
depending on the lifetime of the investments. Cash flow projections for the
four cooperatives show that sufficient funds are generated to meet the cost



- 32 -
recovery payments (Annex 5). In some of the villages, certain improvements
and additions to the fisheries related infrastructure such as causeways,
landing jetties, access roads, etc. need to be made to assure the investments'
full benefits. No quantifiable benefits can be directly attributed to such
infrastructure improvements. The costs involved will, therefore, be recovered
indirectly through incremental tax revenues that will be generated by the
project. The cooperatives are required to withhold 10% of the value of the
catch as Government tax which they have to submit to the MFW.
6.09     Total costs of the Fisheries Village Development Component are
estimated at YD 2.98 million, of which YD 260.000 or 9% account for technical
assistance, preparatory designs and construction supervision and as such are
considered non-recoverable. From the balance of YD 2.72 million, 60% or
YD 1.78 million will be recovered directly from the cooperatives. The costs
of roads, causeways, jetties, etc. which total YD 0.94 million, will be
recovered without interest indirectly through incremental tax payments over a
period of 13 years. At a discount rate of 12%, the net Dresent value of the
costs and tax receipts indicate that over 20 years 60% would be recovered.
6.10     The direct recovery of project costs from the cooperatives will be
organized as follows. Once the MFW's general contractor has erected the
facilities for a cooperative and the insulated trucks have been delivered, the
cooperative's account, which it is required by law to maintain at the National
Bank of Yemen (NBY) and where it must deposit all revenues in excess of petty
cash, will be debited with an amount equivalent to the costs of these
facilities. The cooperative then will be required to authorize the NBY to
automatically deduct monthly debt service installments from the cooperative's
current account.  Over a ten-year period, the entire amount will be recovered
with interest. NBY's present interest rate of 5.5% is negative, as inflation
is estimated to run at about 11% in 1981. IDA is expected to begin a dialogue
with the Government on the interest rate issue based on the results of an
IDA-financed study on prices, taxes, subsidies and interest rates, which is in
its final stage of preparation. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that a cost recovery scheme, as described above, will be made
mandatory for the participating cooperatives and that any future interest rate
adjustments resulting inter alia from a joint Government-IDA review of the
interest rate structure will be applied to this project as well.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Beneficiaries and Financial Benefits
7.01     Fisheries Manpower Development Center.  FMDC's pre-service training
program will graduate annually about 40 technicians who will, according to
their specializations, be assigned to duties aboard the industrial fishing
fleet and to shore-based processing and storage facilities. These technicians
will represent a new type of nationally educated specialists who are well
trained and prepared for their assignments. Their civil service grade and
remuneration will reflect their superior qualifications. In addition to those
graduating from FMDC's pre-service training, a large number of the MFW's
present employees will benefit from FMDC's many in-service training
opportunities. Through the extension service, the project will extend its
benefit even to remote fishing villages which do not otherwise benefit from
the project.



- 33 -
7,02     Fisheries Village Development.  With an annual per capita income of
US$350, which is about 30% below the national average, the country's artisanal
fishermen belong to the country's poorer sections of the population. About
700 fishermen will directly benefit from the project and, depending on their
location and size of fishing vessel, their incomes are estimated to increase
between 80 and 105%. Furthermore an estimated 150,000 Yemenis will enjoy, as
a result of the project, a larger and more reliable supply of fish. Among
those will be many who, because of present insufficient supplies and
inadequate distribution facilities, so far have been excluded from fish
consumption.
7.03     Financial Benefits.  For each of the four participating cooperatives,
income and expenditure statements were projected. Based on those projections,
the following financial rates of return were calculated:
Ras Al Ara Cooperative    24.4%
Shuqra         "           29.8%
Al Shaab       "           30.4%
Bi'r'Ali        "          39.2%
The differences in the rates of return reflect the fact that some cooperatives
have already some basic facilities which only need to be complemented by some
additional investments while others do not have any shore facility and,
therefore, have to start with a larger investment package requiring larger
cost recovery payments. Depending on the size of the vessel, the average
fisherman's income is estimated to increase from YD 520 to YD 1,070 per year
for small vessels and from YD 690 to YD 1,241 for larger vessels.
B. Economic Benefits
7.04     The principal economic benefit that justifies the establishment of
the FMDC is the relaxation of the industrial subsector's key constraint, the
lack of adequately trained manpower. FMDC's output of qualified technicians,
administrators and managers will raise the productivity of the subsector's
capital investments. The economic benefits that will be gained from the
difference in factor utilization will many times cover the initial investment
costs of the FMDC. The annual equivalent capital cost of the FMDC, discounted
at 12% is about US$1.4 million. In addition, annual operating costs are
estimated to be the equivalent of US$0.4 million. The total annual cost of
the FMDC will be US$1.8 million. As this corresponds to only about 5% of the
value of the 1979 national catch, the FMDC will be economically justified if
it were to cause national fish production to increase by about 5% over its
useful life of 20 years, or to cause an average annual increase in national
fish production of 0.25%. Such increases are highly likely as they represent
only a fraction of the conservatively-estimated incremental production
attributable to project investments. The FMDC investment will, however, not
only be justified on the basis of quantifiable economic benefits, but will
lead also to a major institutional development from which the country will
draw the manpower forces that are needed for better utilization of its richest
known natural resource.
7.05     In calculating the economic rate of return for the Fisheries Village
Development Component, no benefits have been attributed to roads, jetties,



- 34 -
causeways and slope protection, which together amount to 30% of the total cost
of this component. All equipment and material used in the project are priced
at the border (CIF Aden), plus transport and handling at the sites. Transfer
payments, such as interests, taxes and subsidies, have been excluded from the
analysis. As the labor mobility of the fishermen to other economic activities
is now assumed to be relatively low, incremental labor input, which is very
modest, was valued, not at market wage rates, but at one half of present
average fishermen income. Incremental output to be sold to NFMC (about 40%)
was valued at existing official NFMC buying-prices for frozen fish, whereas
incremental output to be sold fresh at retail outlets by the cooperatives
directly (about 60%) was estimated to have an economic value to the consumers
of 25% above that of frozen fish. Measured against an official price
differential frozen/fresh fish of 50% or more, and considering present
willingness of consumers to pay more than twice for fresh fish, the above
economic valuation appears sufficiently cautious, as the overall increase in
unit value on account of improved fish quality, in the course of the project
is only 15%. Under these assumptions, the economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated at 22.5%.  The ERR calculated under the same assumptions for the
individual cooperatives, range from 12.6%, (Al Shaab) to 33.3% (Shuqra). The
explanation for those differences are mainly the uneven distribution of
project financed public works and the differences between cooperatives in
expected incremental output.
7.06     The sensitivity analysis shows the following ERR values for
deviations from baseline project performance:
1)  Base value                              22.5%
2)  Benefits down 20%                        13.6%
3)  Costs up 20%                            15.3%
4)  Output price down 20%                    17.4%
5)  Benefits lagging 1 year                 16.2%
6)  Benefits lagging 2 years                11.9%
7) Costs up 20% and benefits lagging
2 years                                6.5%
7.07     In addition, the switching values of key variables have been
calculated. For example, benefits can decrease by about 23% of investments
and costs can increase by about 30% before the overall rate of return would
become equal to 12%.
29C. Project Risks
7.08     The principal risks for implementing the FMDC are possible delays in
construction and inadequate staffing. To reduce these risks to a reasonable
level, the project provides for substantial technical assistance, both during
the construction phase, and the initial years of the facility's operation.
Preparation of final designs will be undertaken prior to credit effectiveness
to avoid unnecessary delays in project implementation.
7.09     The principal risk facing the Fisheries Village Development Component
is associated with shortfalls and delays in realizing the projected benefits.
The degree to which possible project benefits are realized will depend to a
large extent on the cooperation of fishermen and competent cooperative



- 35 -
management which, in turn, is closely related to the level of financial
incentives the system has to offer. The new Government fish-price and
-marketing policy provides a framework conducive to full exploitation of given
opportunities. As long as the delays in the benefit stream are not
disproportionately larger than delays in project implementation, there should
be no significant effect on the ERR. In order to deal with unforeseen events
of this nature, a strong technical assistance and supervision component has
been built into the project.
7.10     Because of its relatively low ERR of 12.6%, the investment proposed
for the Al Shaab cooperative runs the highest risk of turning out to be
uneconomical. An increase in costs by 20% and a shortfall in benefits by 20%
would cause the ERR to drop to about 7%. Such a possibility can, however, be
considered quite remote because of Al Shaab's comparative locational
advantage. Better than any of the participating cooperatives has Al Shaab
been able to exploit its marketing opportunities in the Aden fish market which
is at the same time the explanation for the relatively low rate of return
caused by comparatively modest incremental benefits that it can expect from
the project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to in
Chapters IV and V of this report and subject to the conditions of
effectiveness in paras. 3.01 and 4.32, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 5.4 million to the Government of the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen on standard terms.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDY ON THE DEMAND AND SUPPLY SITUATION
OF REFRIGERATION TECHNICIANS IN PDRY
1.       A study will be undertaken to determine:
a) the short- and long-term demand for refrigeration technicians for
the country as a whole and the Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW) in
particular; and
b) whether the capacities and curricula of the existing facilities
for refrigeration technicians in PDRY are sufficient to meet the
country's short- and long-term demand.
2.       Based on the projected supply and demand situation, the study will
recommend appropriate action to meet any future shortfall of refrigeration
technicians.
3.       The study will, in particular, analyze the MFW's demand for
refrigeration technicians. The study will determine, in particular, the
feasibility of continuing the MFW's practice since 12 years to train
refrigeration technicians at its own training facility. Training of
refrigeration technicians for the MFW at the Maala Technical Institute (MTI)
should be considered as an alternative.
4.       In recommending proposals for an adequate future supply of
refrigeration technicians, the study will determine whether a new training
facility for the refrigeration technicians at the proposed Fisheries Manpower
Development Center should be developed or whether it would be advisable to
extend and upgrade the relevant facilities at MTI, following an assessment of
the instructional equipment and facilities and the availabilty of instructors.
5.       The study will analyze in detail the cost and benefits and will
determine the advantages and disadvantages for the various alternative
solutions for the training of refrigeration technicians on the basis of which
a least cost solution can be determined.
6.       The study is expected to involve three to four weeks period in the
country and about two weeks for final report writing.



37                                    ANNEX 2
Page 1
PDRY
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Advisor - Terms of Reference
The Training Advisor would be hired on a 36 month assignment and would
be expected to complete the following tasks:
A. Curriculuam Design
i) Design a detailed curriculum for the technical segment of
the long (five-year) course.
ii)  Design a detailed in-service training program for MFW
personnel, cooperative members and individual fishermen.
iii) Draw up a work program for graduates for the five-year program
for guidarce during their seagoing experience training
period.
(Cooperation of other technical assistance personnel would be
necessary to complete the above mentioned items).
B.  Training of Instructors
Design a detailed training program for the production cf qualified
instructors for the five-year program and for the in-service activities.
This program will include in-country and overseas training of
trainer workshops and courses.
C.  Selection Criteria
Prepare selection criteria for use in recruiting trainees for the
five-year program.
D.  Evaluation of Training
Prepare guidelines for the evaluation of all training programs.
E.  Teaching Aids and Resources
a)  Advise or the use of audio and visual aids and their purchase
and maintenance.
b) Advise on the establishment of a small library and information
resource center.
F.  Training Costs
Draw up guidelines for the calculation of accurate training costs.
G.  Counterpart Trainir:g
Prepare a program of actfvities designed to enable a carefully
selected PDRY national to take over the training function at the
end of the technical assistance period.



-38-                                  ANNEX 2
Page 2
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Adviser - Qualifications and Experience
The Adviser will possess recognised academic or equivalent qualifica-
tions in the marine or related sciences and will have a minimum of
fifteen years work experience at least half of which wil' have been
in full-time training activities. The adviser will have demonstrated
experience in instructor selection and training, curriculum design,
in-service course design and presentation and evaluation of training.
Middle East work experience would be advantageous. The adviser should
be fluent in English and a working knowledge of Arabic would be
extremely useful.



-39-                                                                        AUNEX 3
PEOPLE'S DEXOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YtEXN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPJUNT PROJECT
PROJ8CT COSTS
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3               Year 4              Year 5               Total                          2 Foreign
Local   Foregn        oca t  IroeTIn   Loi            a       Lo0egnLocal    Fo rei l Icocal   ForLein   Local     Foreign  Grand Total  Exchange
___________________________________________oo __ _ -- _ _ _ ---- U   ------------------------         -----------  -
A. F.M.D.C.
Civil Works                     713.5    309.7  1,527.9    840.6    912.4    393.5               -         -          -         -   3,153.8       1,543.8     4,697.6         33
Physical Contingencies           71.3      30.9    152.8        84.1      91.2       39.3        -          -         -         -      315.3        154.3       469.6
Price Contingencies              98.9      42.9     354.6      195.2     302.1    130.3               -               -         -      755.6        368.4     1,124.0
Training Vessels                   -         -          -        -        30.0    262.0          -          -         -         -       30.0        262.0        292.0        90
Physical Contingencie-             -          -         -        -         3.0       26.2                  -          -         -         3.0        26.3         29.2
Price Contingencies                -         -          -        -        10.0      86.7         -          -         -         -       10.0         86.7         96.7
Fornishing                                   -         -        20.0      20.4    162.9          -          -         -                 20.4        182.9       203.3         90
Physical Contingencies             -         -         -         1.0        1.0       8.1        -          -         -         -         1.0         9.1         10.1
Price Contingencies                -         -        -          4.4       6.4       51.5        -         -          -         -        6.4         55.9         62.3
Teaching Egui  oent                -         -          -       60.0      41.7    106.7          _         _          _         -       41.7        166.7       208.4         80
Physical Contingencies             -         -          -        3.0       2.0        5.3        -         -          -         -        2.0          8.3         10.3
Price Contingencies                -         -          -       13.3      13.1       33.7        -         -          -         -       13.1         47.0         60.1
Vehicles                          1.0      20.0       -          -        12.3    232.7                   -                             13.3        252.7       266.0         95
Physical Contingencies            0.1       2.0       -          -         1.2       23.2       -         -                              1.3         25.2         26.5
Price Contingencies                -        2.8       -          -         4,1      77.0        -         -         -          -         4.1         79.8        83.9
Teacher Training                 52.0    269.0        60.0    310.0       60.0     310.0        -         -          -                 172.0        889.0     1,061.0         84
Physical Contingencies                                 -         -         -          -         -         -                              -            -           -
Price Contingencies               6.6      33.9       12.6      65.4      18.1      93.3        -         -          -                  37.3        192.6       229.9
Technical Assistance               -       2'.8         -         -         -       40.0       77.4    398.6        77.4    438.6      154.8        903.0     1,057.8         85
Physical Contingencies                       -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -              -           -                  -
Price Contingencies                -        3.3         -         -         -       12.0       30.0     154.6      36.5    207.1        66.5        377.0       443.5
Final Design and C-ortruction
Supervisi                       13.0    412.0       16.0      144.0       8.0      72.0         -         -         -          -       37.0       628.0        665.0         94
Physical Contingencies                                                                 -               -           -
Price Contingencies               1.6      48.8       3.4       31.4       2.4      21.7         -         -          -         -        7.4       100.9        108.3
Increnental Operating
Costs                             -         -          -         -         -         -      340.0      132.1    167.5        65.1    507.5        197.2        704.7         30
Physlcal Contingencies             -         -          -         -         -          -       34.0      13.2      16.7        6.5      50.7         19.7        70.4
Price Contingencies                -         -          -         -         -         -       155.0      60.3      76.3       29.7    231.3          90.0       321.3
Refrigeration Training
Facil                            -         -        35.0    330.0         -         -         -          -         -          -        35.0       330.0        365.0         90
Phys 3cE   Cont-ingencies         -         -          0.7       7.5       -         -          -         -         -          -         0.7          7.5         8.2
Price Contingencies               -         -          3.1      33.1       -         -          -         -         -          -         3.1         33.1        36.2
SUBTOTALS
Baseline Costs                  779.5  1,036.5  1,638.9  1,704.6  1,084.8  1,579.8    417.4    530.7    244.9    503.7  4,165.5                  5,355.3      9,520.8         55
Physical Contingencies           71.4      32.9    153.5        95.6      98,4    102.1        34.0      13.2      16.7        6.5    374.0        250.3        624.3
Price Contingencies             107.1    131.7    373.7    341.8    356.2    506.2    185.0    214.9    112.8    236.8  1,134,8                  1,431.4      2,566.2
TOTAL COST P.M.D.C.             958.0  1,201.1  2,166.1  2,142.0  1,539.4  2,188.1           636.4      758.8     374.4    747.0  5,674.3        7,037.0   12,711.3           55
S. VILLAGE DEVELOPNENT
Civil Works                     275.7    725.7    626.0  1,814.0         192.7    635.9          -         -         -          -   1,094.4      3,175.6    4,270.0           74
Physical Contingencies           41.3     108.8       93.9    272.1       28.9      95.4         -         -         -          -      164.1       476.4        640.5
Price Contingencies              39.9    105.1    151.9    440.2          66.7    220.1          -         -         -          -      258.5       765.4      1,023.9
Equipment                          -         -       48.0      912.9       2.0      40.9         -         -          -         -       50.0       953.8    1.003.8           95
Physical Contingencies             -         -        7.2      136.9       0.3       6.1         -         -         -          -        7.5       143.0        150.5
Price Contingencies                -         -       11.6    221.5         0.7      14.1         -         -         -          -       12.3       235.6        247.9
Vehicles                           -         -       12.6    234.5         7.6    144.4          -         -         -          -       20.2       378.9        399.1         95
Physical Contingencies             -         -         1.9      35.2       1.1      21.7         -         -         -          -        3.0        56.9         59.9
Price Contingencies                -         -        3.1       56.9       2.6      50.0         -         -         -          -        5.7       106.9        112.6
Technical Assistance             14.6      82.9      14.6       82.9        -         -          -         -         -          -       29.2       165.8        195.0         85
Price Contingencies               1.8      10.4       3.1       17.5        -         -          -         -         -          -        4.9        27.9         32.8
Preparatory Design and
Constrootis          - Sopervisi-n    10.0    180.0  15.0    120.0        5.0      58.0         -         -         -         -        30.0       358.0        388.0        92
Physical Contingencies            1.5      27.0       2.3       18.0       0.7       8.7         -         -         -          -        4.5        53.7         58.2
Price Contingencies               1.5      26.0        3,7      29.1       1.7      20.1         -         -         -          -        6.9        75.2         82.1
SUBTOTALS
Baseline Costs                  300.3    988.6      716.2  3,164.3    207.3    879.2             -         -         -          -   1,223.8      5,032.1      6,255.9         80
Physical Contingencies           42.8    135.8    105.3    462.2          31.0    131.9          -         -         -          -      179.1       730.0        909.1
Price Contingencies              43.2    141.5    173.4    765.2          71.7    304.3           -           _                        288.3     1,211.0      1,499.
TOTAL COST OF VILLAGE
DEVELOP9ENT                    386.3  1,265.9    994.9  4,391.7         310.0  1,315.4          -         -                        1,691.2    6,973.1    8,664.3            80
C. ENTIRE PROJECT
asaeline Costs               1,079.8  2,025.1  2,355.1  4,868.9  1,292.1  2,459.0    417.4    53D.7    244.9    503.7  5,389.3   10,387.4   15,776.7
Physical Contingencies          114.2    168.7    258.8    557.8    129.4    234.0             34.0      13.2      16.7        6.5     553.1       980.3      1,533.4
Price Contingencies             150.3    273.2    547.1  1,17.           427.9    810.5    185.0    214.9    112.8    236.8  1,423.1                2,642.4    4,065.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST           1,344.3  2           3,161.0  6,533.7  1849.                    636.4      758.8    374.4    747.0  73655   140101   21,375.6                    66



-40 -                                    ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEHOCATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Value of Production
(At Producer Prices)
Category I   Category II   Category III         Total
Cooperative: Ras Al Ara
Present/Without Project
Catch  .tons)                  160           485            160              805
Gross Value /1 (YD'OOO)         32.0          82.5             6.4           120.9
With Project
Catch (tons)                  480            600            120            1,200
Gross Value /2 (YD'OOO)        124.8         132.6            4.8            262.7
Cooperative; Al Shaab
Presenit/Without Project
Catch (tons)                  300            910            305            1,515
Gross Value /3 (YD'OOO)         69.0         177.3           12.2            258.7
With Project
Catch (tons)                  727            909            181            1,818
Gross Value /2 (YD'OOO)        189.0         200.0             7.2           396.2
Cooperative: Shuqra
Present/Without Project
Catch (tons)                  365          1,100            365            1,830
Gross Value /1 (YD'OOO).        73.0         187.0           14.6            274.6
With Project
Catch (tons)                  835          1,310            235            2,380
Gross Value /1 (YD'OOO)       268.4          289.5           20.8            578.7
Cooperative: Bir Ali
Present/Without Project
Catch (tons)                   175           525            175              875
Gross Value /1 (YD'OOO)         35.0          89.3          175              131.3
With Project
Catch (tons)                  424            530            106            1,060
Gross Value |1 (YD'OOO)       110.2          117.1            4.2            231.5
All Cooperatives
Present/Without Project
Catch (tons)                1,000          3,020          1,005            5,025
Gross Value (YD'000)          209.0          536.3           40.2            785.5
With Project
Catch (tons)                2,466          3,349            642           6,457
Gross Value (YD'OOO)          692.4          739.2           37.0          1,468.6
/1  Category 1;  100% at YD 200/ton; Category II; 100% at YD 170/ton; and
Category III: 100% at YD 40/ton.
/2  Base prices as under /1, but adoed price premium of 50% over 60% for
Categories I and II; no price premium for Category III.
/3  Category 1: 100% at YD 230/ton; Category II: 100% at YD 195/ton;
Category III: 100% at YD 40/ton.
Source:  Ministry of Fish Wealth and Mission estimates.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperatives
Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rates of Return
(YD SO00)
------------------------- - ---------------------------- YEARS -----------------------------------------------------------
1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8       9        10      11       12    13-16    17        18       19      20
RAS AL ARA
Cash Inflow
Funds Generated:
Net Income                  23.3   28.0   51.3   74.6   93.2   93.2   93.2   93.2   93.2    93.2    93.2    93.2    93.2   93.2    93.2    93.2    93.2
Add:  Depreciation            -      -    23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0   23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0
Long-term Loan Proceeds/I   70.0  279.8        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -        -      -        -        -        -
Medium-term Loan Proceeds/I   -    33.2        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -        -       -       -        -        -
Total Cash Inflow             93.3  341.0   74.3   97.6  116.2  116.2  116.2  116.2  116.2   116.2   116.2   116.2   116.2  116.2   116.2   116.2   116.2
Cash outflow
Investments/Replacements    70.0  313.0        -      -       -       -    33.2      -      -        -        -     33.2       -    33.2       -      70.0   313.0
Long-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -      -    31.4   33.1   34.9   36.8   38.9   41.0   43.2    45.6    48.1            -        -      -        -        -       -
-Interest                      -      -    19.4   17.7   15.9   14.0   11.9    9.8    7.6          5.2      2.7      -        -      -        -        -       -
Medium-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -      -      6.0    6.3    6.7    7.0    7.4        -      -        -       -        -        -      -        -        -       -
-Interest                      -      -      1.8    1.5    1.1    0.8    0.4        -      -        -        -       -        -      -        -        -       -       -
Total Cash Outflow            70.0  31j30   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   91.8   50.8   50.8    50.8    50.8    33.2             -    33.2       -      70.0   313.0
Net Inflow (Outflow)          23.3   28.0   15.7   39.0   57.6   57.6   24.4   65.4   65.4    65.4    65.4    83.0   116.2   83.0   116.2    46.2  (196.8)
Financial Rate of Return:   24.4%
Cash Inflow
Funds Generated:
Net Income                  40.0   50.0   78.2  113.8  142.3  142.3  142.3  142.3  142.3   142.3   142.3   142.3   142.3  142.3   142.3   142.3   142.3
Add:  Depreciation            -      -    36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0   36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0
Long-term Loan Proceeds/1  286.2  123.5        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -        -      -        -        -       -
Medium-term Loan Proceeds/l  5.6   44.8        -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -        -       -       _        _        _
Total Cash Inflow            331T.    18.3  114.2  149.8  178.3  178.3  178.3  178.3  178.3   178.3   178.3   178.3   178.3  178.3   178.3   178.3   178.3
Cash outflow
Investments/Replacements   291.8  168.3        -      -       -      -    50.4       -      -        -       -      50.4       -    50.4       -    286.2   123.5
Long-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -      -    37.8   39.9   42.1   44.4   46.8   49.4   52.1    55.0    58.0            -        -      -        -        -       -
-Interest                      -      -    23.4   21.3   19.1   16.8   14.4   11.8    9.1          6.2     3.2       -        -      -        -        -       -
Medium-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -      -    11.7   12.4   13.0   13.8        -      -       -        -       -        -        -      -        _        _       _
-Interest                      -      -      2.8    2.1    1.5    0.7       -       -      -        -       -        -        -      _        _        _       _
Total Cash Outflow          79TI_       7T3 7  73:7   '737   77TflTJ ill.6             2           5T7    WT.-    3WF            -  3T.4       -    286.2   123.5
Net Inflow (Outflow)          40.0   50.0   38.5   74.1  102.6  102.6   66.7  117.1  117.1   117.1   117.1   127.9   178.3  127.9   178.3  (107.9)   54.8
Financial Rate of Return:   29.8%   - 
/1  Loan proceeds represent actual investments made for the cooperatives under the projects; long-term loans stand for structures and facilities,
medium-term loans stand for vehicles.
/2 Lo4n repayments represent cost recovery payments including interest.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF' YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperatives
Cash Flow Projections and Financial Rates of Return
(YD '000)
----------------------------------------------------------    YEARS    ------------------------------------------------------------
1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8       9       10      11       12    13-16       17       18       19      20
AL SHAAB
Gash Inflow
Funds Generated
Net Income                  35.0   38.1   54.5   87.1  108.9  108.9  108.9  108.9  108.9  108.9   108.9   108.9   108.9   108.9   108.9   108.9   108.9
Add:  Depreciation            -       -    54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0   54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0
Long Term Loan Proceeds/l  117.3  251.5         -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Medium-term Loan Proceeds/I   -    42.9         -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Total Cash Inflow            13-T3T 3 TS2.5T  T6    TMT7   T-2.   162.9g  T 72   162.9  162.9  162.9   162.9   162.9 T6-2             162.9    162.9    162.9   162.9
Cash Outflow
Investments/Replacements   117.3  251.5         -      -       -       -    42.9      -       -      -        -      42.9       -     42.9       -    117.3   251.5
Long-term Loan Repayment/2;
-Principal                     -       -    33.4   35.2   37.1   39.2   41.3   43.6   46.0   48.5    51.2             -        -        -       -        -        -
-Interest                      -       -    20.6   18.8   16.9   14.8   12.7   10.4    8.0    5.5           2.8       -            -        -        -            -
Medium-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -       -      7.6    8.1    8.5    9.0    9.5        -       -      -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
-Interest                      -       -      2.4    1.9    1.5    1.0    0.5        -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Total Cash Outflow           117.3  251.5   64.0   64.0   64.0   64.0  106.9   54.0   54.0   54.0    54.0    42.9               _      42.9       -    117.3   251.5
Net Inflow (Outflow)          35.0   81.0   44.5   77.1   98.9   98.9   56.0  108.9  108.9  108.9   108.9   120.0    62.9   120.0   162.9    45.6   (88.6)
Financial Rate of Return:   30.4%
BIR ALI
Cash Inflow
Funds Generated
Net Income                  20.0   24.8   45.0   65.5   81.9   81.9   81.9   81.9   81.9   81.9    81.9    81.9    81.9    81.9    81.9    81.9    81.9
Add:  Depreciation            -       -    21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8    21.8    21.8    21.8    21.8    21.8    21.8    21.8
Long-term Loan Proceeds/l   86.1   84.6         -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Medium-term Loan Proceeds/l 22.4   15.0         -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Total Cash Inflow            128.5  124.4   66.8   87.3  103.7  103.7  103.7   103.7   103.7   03.7   103.7  T13.7   103.7   103.7   103.7   103.7   103.7
Cash outflow
Investments/Replacements   108.5   99.6         -      -       -       -    37.4      -       --      -       -      37.4       -      37.4       -     86.1    84.6
Long-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -       -    15.7   16.5   17.4   18.4   19.4   20.5   21.6   22.8    24.0             -        -        -       -        -        -
-Interest                      -       -      9.6    8.8    7.9    6.9    5.9    4.8    3.7    2.5          1.3       -            -        -            -        -
Medium-term Loan Repayment/2:
-Principal                     -       -      8.9    9.4    9.9   10.4       -       -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -
-Interest                      -       -      2.1    1.6    1.1    0.6       -       -       -       -       -        -        -            -     _               -
Total Cash Outflow           108.S   99.6  WS73   T6.3   36.3   363   -62-7   25.3   25.7   25.3T7    2                 ; 7    -T_    TF87 ;                            a 
Net Inflow (Outflow)          20.0   24.8   30.5   51.0    7         67.4   41.0   78.4   78.4   78.4    78.4    66.3   103.7    66.3   103.7    17.6    19.1    x
Financial Rate of Return:   39.2%              -,,_ t,
/I  Loan proceeds represent actLial investments made for the cooperatives under the projects; long-term loans stand for structures and facilities,
medium-term loans stand for vehicles.
/2 Loan repayments represent cost recovery payments including interest.



PEOPLES'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDER YEAR       1983            1984             1985            1986            1987
ACTIVITY                              -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -    --         -   -    -   -   -   -
QUARTER  1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4   1   2   3  4   1  2   3   4   1   2   3  4
FISHERIES MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
CENTER
TEACHER TRAINING                             -   -       -   -                    -
CONSTRUCTION OF
TRAINING FACILITIES
TENDERING AND BID EVALUATION
CONTRACT AWARD
MOBILIZATION
CONTRUCTION                                             -   _  -   -         -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 _                                                                -   -        -
FISHERIES VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT
CONSTRUCTION OF VILLAGE
FACI LITIES
TENDERING AND BID EVALUATION
CONTRACT AWARD
CONSTRUCTION                                            -   _  m   -         -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                  -       -      _
World Bank-23814
ON



- 44 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMCCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FILE
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports, Studies and Documents Relating to the Project
Al.  FAO, Village Fishery Development on the Western Coast of PDRY, August
1980.
A2   FAO, Fisheries Manpower Development Center, Final Report, August 1981.
A3   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, PDRY Third Fisheries Development
Project, August 1981.
B. Working Tables Prepared by IDA Staff and Consultants
Bl    Table 1  -  Production of Fish by Sector
Table 2  -  Cooperatives, Fish Production 1977-80
Table 3  -  Basic Background Data on Cooperatives
B2  Table 1  -  FMDC:  Cost Estimates Civil Works
Table 2  -  FMDC:  Cost Estimate; Site Works
Table 3  -  FMDC:  Cost Estimates:  Water and Sewerage
Table 4  -  FMDC:  Cost Estimates:  Electrical Works
Table 5  -  FMDC:  Detailed Equipment List
Table 6  -  FMDC:  Technical Assistance Costs
Table 7  -  FMDC:  Furniture List
TAble 8  -  FMDC:  Incremental Recurrent Cost
33  Table 1  -  VFD:  Investment Costs, Shuqra Cooperative
Table 2  -  VFD:  Investment Costs, Bir Ali Cooperative
Table 3  -  VFD:  Investment Costs, Ras Al Ara Cooperative
Table 4  -  VFD:  Investment Cost, Al Shaab Cooperative
Table 5  -  VFD:  Fish Handling Costs
Table 6  -  VFD:  Investment Operating Cost for Plant
Table 7  -  VFD:  Operating Cost Insulated Truck
Table 8  -  VFD:  Fuel Consumption Fishing Vessels
B4  Table 1  -  VFD:  Gross Sales Values, Ras Al Ara Cooperative
Table 2  -  VFD:  Gross Sales Values, Bir Ali Cooperative
Table 3  -  VFD:  Gross Sales Values, Al Shaab Cooperative
Table 4  -  VFD:  Gross Sales Values, Shuqra Cooperative



_45 -                                   ANNEX 7
Page 2
35   Table 1 -  VFD:  Cooperative Credit Requirements
Table 2 - VFD; Fisheries Incomes
Table 3 - VFD: Projected Income and Expenditure
Taole 4 - VFD: Economic Rates of Return.






IBRD 16158
v                     45'                   4b'                    47?                   48'                    49'                   50'0                              5? s                ' 54 18O -9                - 5  2RAG                   JANUARY 1962
_ .    ~~~~~~   |                     |APAE~~~~~~~               nSA\        I HRA A
ReP \                       -S~~~~~~~IP  
-.                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 M A N   £G%T, 'I,Ml~"
S A U D I                                    _                                                                           -  °               i  ARARJA
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN                                                                                                                  5AUDI   ARA-IAAN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                     /                                                  !     -                                       i IUOAN\
/                                                              ~~~~~~~          ~          ~        ~~~~~~~ ~~~ShiUa>  I ' I1 E,P O
----------___                    /Sna                                             hhn                |            -      R. s9pD  
k     Fisheres Manpoweer Neelopment Center                                                                                              .I- II  I. \M N_
*     Project Villages                                                                             ./
A     Fisheries Exte-sion Unint                                                                       H'br,                                                                                                                             - FIPIA  0   --'--
Anphelted rends                                                                      /         .7 Tharemd                                                                                             L                                      /
-       Grn--   Othe, reads or tracks                                                      /          .,    'i                                                                                                   N i                       4errae, beeeprepene/rtoe
Towns                                                                          /           -'S                                                                                                                                    WABe,teeo"e'
fe   National capital                                                             /          /           .- Ja.t t
200e Bothymetrc contoors in meters t                                          /                                                                                                                            o- Ie,                          + bpu   ntiom,A
Ctffo or his
zoanck~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WR -aksa ae"ie e
- -eoroot   bojitdoies                                                                            - ./--n--,                                                  -        .--         At-hld-         /                               e(ee--    e e  e
Intetrnot  ...I b.uI-da,,eS                                           /-o--                                                  -       4:.---i                                                           /J              /O
/     Al AbnM             c   A     Hate                                                                                                                                                       10rho :if |,-
!1'  Rieian;                                                                ihin        ]
j    /                              .           -. r~~ . ~ ~~ Haynran                              5--- H-yn                              RAS FATAKrb.
/                                                                                     lesheano       59  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 7b      
. ,shn/Lilano  -'         /Jo
./               : °~~~~~~Sholwnh                                                          ;.r                 Say      h utJ_                            (                                                  5
R  E  PU        B   L  I                            h '                        ,                                                           Shih,-           a     ,                                                                            j ,
hklb /half  -
,$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Mat idA  'in Rs,  Deh Bi Oh  As,0                                                                                                                                                 ' Data,
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~l  
Dhe O  f                                         i <  _  -  i  )                                        /  0) i fle   $  A 25   50  7[5  00  ? i  J,  , l  25 Rn d1t D91 2 I0   ,   --   . 0  20
2                                                                                                                   I!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
5       /                                                                                                 <'F      a     90                                                              6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sneotra lamed~~~~~~~5  1  -
D 17Uy . t V \ 25  M LES? 5- -9                     (i                                                                                                   /                                                     AbdaK       c   '--< M   -,;
j{('            aj 44 '/<5              45'                0   4b't' 4                                         48;                    49                      59/'     /  '           s52                                             5



I



_____________________________                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~I BRD  16159
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                         ISLAND                                 )             %           ,                  "           "-                               Sooss
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                 ,-                 Nu 5AUD ARABI A /
Fisheries  Manpower  Development Center                                                                               '   r                    :                                   L                      11A                1   / PEOPLES  EIS      OCRAtiC
N                    V                           ,,     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC     SME
PROPOSED UNDER  PROJECT                                                                                                                         =                                                                                            YEMEN AI
-    -    SSte Boundosy                     snue u-  Eiisting Bulldingu                                                                               r -__                                                  ADEN                                   I REPUBL C  r
m L |  ProiectBuldigs,ondg Foc liihes               EBisSing Road                                                                       ,--                                                                                  AAAA  -                          - '
Futur-  Boldings and Faclities            Eisting Servce Roads                           -r'                                                                                                                                        A .A
, j    Esisting 8ulddings Improved         *-*-*  En-sting Power Lin                   -- /-                           ,           -'|ATEE                                                                                                            .,SDG,
Under Prolect                    ;I A                                                                                                                                                           /.;.---  Depth Cotor --  1.
~~i-1~Greo-  Area                                                         -- _el                                                                                                                                     ,-                            .'
| 1*~i    1 `tUAr  Green Area                     1            1S1- -
5-SOnYS'                                                            BAsDN   ..  ,   ___i' _.-~
Yu~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STAF B                                                                   AHLORS OURTE9   .,  . -YMM ~~#_
IL - - ~ ~        ~        ~        MSn                                                E                                                                                
Iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
99 LAB / CLASSROOM / CAPTAIN'S BRIDL E23                                                         INTITUT
20 GE_A  S    /_
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
71 WATCHMAN7_
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
PROJECT BULD    S AoND FAC:ITIES                               /xe A                                                                           D                       2
22 GIRS, SMOARING
24ISTARUCTHEORS' QUARTERS29BY'CLVTRUNTD510/
15STUDENTSC LTEtRE                                      ~                                                                                         ~>                                                                                     -
25 ADMINI RATIONE/RNGACHARS'IN RARNCE-       3T WATE  TAN                                                                         METES                             .                                                                                       T
WABOCLASROOM1NWLNNGSAEFE
Dn ELA  I CLASSROION I CAPTAINIS BRIDE
20 GENERAL STORE / WC, LAVATORY UNITS
LIWATCHMAN
23' FiH HAN DLNG/ PROCESSiNG/SCOLD STORE   28 VOLLEYBALL FIELD
FnnORGEA   SEAMAN3SIP                        BASKETBALL FIELD
2u INSTRUCTORS' OtFElCE                      29 ROSS'WC ELAVATORY UNIT                                                                   05                                                    0
AS MARINE ENGINEER NG/SMAINTENANCE -         20 WATER DANK                                                                        METER                            5.                         0
WOR",,OP                                Al NEW LAND NO STAoE                                                                    FEE
DEMONSTRATION ROOM-NEW                  35IRANGINO MUSE                                                                                             6               260             YuY
FORGE                                   3A SMALL BOAT MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                                          T,npa  raaoausnWAOrnaS,irnSSsvnaav
26 WELDING                                   37 MOTORCAR SERVICE RAMP                                                                                                                                                                           or ah  ranriM,ancnimon  no ciavnad   Annom   vnArnd
27 ASSEMBLY AREA WITH STAGE                  3t CIL TANKS                                                                                                                                                                                      cYYiaO   m              WArnErr clenrr,c yvAcn,nOr
JANUARY IV82



