Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   r  2     ' '
Report No. P-3348-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
June 1, 1982
i This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981             May 1982
Currency Unit         Yemeni Dinars (YD)              YD
us$ 1                YD  0.345                   0.345
YD  I       =         US$ 2.90                   2.90
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EEC            European Economic Community
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations
FMDC     =     Fisheries Manpower Development Center
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural
Development
MAAR     =     Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MFW      =     Ministry of Fish Wealth
NBY      =     National Bank of Yemen
NFMC     =     National Fish Marketing Corporation
PCFW     =     Public Corporation for Fish Wealth
PDRY     =     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
UNESCO   =     United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
USSR     =     Union of Soviet Socialist Republics



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
Amount  :         SDRs 5.4 million (about US$ 6.0 million)
Terms:            Standard IDA
Project
Description:      The project is designed to address two of the sector's most
critical constraints, the lack of adequately trained manpower
at all levels and the lack of facilities for the exploitation
of the substantial coastal fish resources by the traditional
coastal fisheries sub-sector. The project would consist of
(i) the establishment of a Fisheries Manpower Development
Center (FMDC), a self-contained training facility to meet the
fisheries sector's trained manpower needs; (ii) financing of
teaching equipment for the training of refrigeration
technicians; and (iii) a Fisheries Village Development
component consisting of the development of four existing
fisheries cooperatives comprising five villages by providing
integrated fish landing, handling, storage, marketing,
transport and repair facilities to enable them to handle all
fisheries-related activities from catch to final retail
marketing. The project would also provide 156 man-months of
technical assistance. The principal beneficiaries would be:
fishermen in the five villages, whose incomes would rise by
80-105 percent as a result of project investments, employees
of the Ministry of Fish Wealth and Unity School graduates who
would be trained at the FMDC, and the 150,000 people in the
project and surrounding area who would benefit from an
improved and stable supply of fresh fish. The major risks
facing the project are possible delays in construction and
inadequate staffing in the FMDC component and shortfalls and
delays in realizing project benefits in the Fisheries Village
Development component.  Substantial technical assistance has
been included in the project to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1
Estimated Costs 1/                                     Local       Foreign    Total
---------US$ Million-------
A. FMDC
Civil Works                                      3.1         1.6         4.7
Training Vessels, vehicles, furnishings
and teaching equipment                        0.1         0.9          1.0
Technical Assistance, Teacher Training,
Design & Construction Supervision2/           0.4          2.4         2.8
Incremental Operating Costs                      0.5         0.2        0.7
Refrigeration Equipment                          -           0.3         0.3
Subtotal                                4.1         5.4         9.5
B. Village Development
Civil Works                                      1.1         3.2         4.3
Equipment and Vehicles                           0.1         1.3         1.4
Technical Assistance, Design and
Construction Supervision                      0.1         0.5         0.6
1.3        5.0         6.3
Base Cost                                        5.4        10.4        15.8
Physical Contingencies                           0.6         1.0         1.6
Price Contingencies                              1.4         2.6        4.0
Total Project cost                          7.4        14.0        21.4
Financing Plan:                                        Local       Foreign    Total
---------US$ Million
FMDC
Government                                       4.3         -           4.3
IDA                                              0.6         3.2        3.8
EEC
IFAD                                            0.8          3.8        4.6
5.7         7.0       12.7
Village Development
Government                                       1.7         1.0         2.7
IDA                                             -            2.2        2.2
EEC                                                          3.4         3.4
IFAD                                            -           0.4         0.4
1.7        7.0         8.7
Total                                     7.4        14.0        21.4
1/   Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
2/   Including $125,000 for repayment of Project Preparation Facility advance.



- iii -
Bank
Estimated IDA                FY83         FY84       FY85         FY86        FY87
Disbursements:                                 --- US   Million----------------
Annual                     0.6         2.6         2.5          0.2         0.1
Cumulative                 0.6         3.2         5.7         5.9          6.0
Estimated Completion Date:                   December 31, 1987
Rate of Return:                              About 22 percent
Staff Appraisal Report No: 3806-YDR of May 20, 1982
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 5.4 million (about US$6.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance a Third Fisheries Project. The Government has completed negotiations
with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) concerning the
provision of a $5 million equivalent loan and the European Economic Community
Special Action Account will also provide $3.4 million equivalent to help
finance this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.       Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently pursued
a strategy of developing the country within the context of a planned economic
system. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to satisfy
the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter,
employment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the
production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries,
manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure
sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education
standards, emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase
exports of domestic products.
4.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on
a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking, insur-
ance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment in
manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
1/ Part I and Annex I of this report are substantially the same as those in
the President's Report for the Second Power Project which is scheduled for
presentation to the Executive Directors on June 17, 1982.



- 2 -
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities.  Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
fanm organizations--state farms and cooperatives--were created to facilitate
the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing
and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two of the
remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum)
and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were
transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government,
and was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives.
But the private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have re-
gained some strength in recent years.  At present, it is estimated to account
for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding
government services).  Private activity can be found in almost every sector
and is strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and
transport. The volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen
sharply since the mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment.
Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged in some areas,
such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now
active.  Foreign private investors have been invited to participate in oil
exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has
recently been promulgated providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction.
6.       Since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress in
a number of areas.  Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased largely through higher imports.  School enrollment
rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved.  The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded.  Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while
more recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction.  Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment but created some labor shortages.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and
by a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
17).  Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting in large
part the low levels of capacity utilization especially in agriculture and
fisheries.  Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors, agricultural
and fish production have stagnated in the last 5-6 years.  However, since an
increasing amount of product can be sold in the free market, the official
output statistics may increasingly understate the level of production and thus
the performance of the agriculture and fisheries sectors.



- 3 -
8.       The Second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outlined in para. 3 above. The Plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation by the Council
on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their five-year
development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in 1981. The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85
of which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture
and fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent for transport and
communications, 8 percent for education and health and 18 percent for
housing. The Plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be
financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400 million had
already been committed at the beginning of the plan period. The production
targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of growth of 10 percent
per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent for industry, 9 percent
for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and 9 percent for transport and
communications. Production growth is to be achieved not only through new
investments but also through improved utilization of existing capacities.
9.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although sub-
stantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
10.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately
trained manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance,
including assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY, the country
is now generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and could be eased through
joint ventures with foreign contractors.
11.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages
of trained manpower the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated



- 4 -
problems are in sight although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives to sell a large portion
of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
12.      The Government's emdhasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investmeat started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid. However, in
1980 development expenditures increased in absolute terms reflecting the
special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects, but in real
terms they were still substantially below 1977 levels. Current government
expenditures for education, health and more recently defense, continued to
grow through 1980 both in nominal and real terms.
13.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have accel-
erated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 6 percent during 1974-79,
compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-73. The major growth
sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and transport.
Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated. To some extent
the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was the result of
labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within the country
(i.e. construction) or abroad. But it also reflects the factors mentioned in
para. 11 above.
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation.
New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition,
profits of public enterprises have been rising.  As a result, total public
sector income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $311 million in 1980.
This still left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to
$183 million in 1980. This will be further aggravated by the unusually
severe floods in PDRY during the latter part of March, 1982 which caused
large-scale damage. The Government estimates that 500 people died, 25,000
houses were destroyed and 50,000 head of livestock were lost. Overall
physical damage is estimated to be between $300 million and $1 billion.
In particular, Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates are the most seriously
affected areas. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan suffered erosion of wadi banks
with a resulting loss of large tracts of agricultural land and residential



- 5 -
property. Along the wadis, much of the rural infrastructure, including
irrigation facilities, roads, and bridges, has been seriously damaged. PDRY
will suffer a resultant decline in agricultural production and a disruption of
its development program, although the full extent of these losses has not yet
been determined.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Total foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 disbursements dropped
to $87 million due in part to the decline in public investments. However,
foreign aid inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 reaching $169 million.
16.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth
in investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $650 million in 1980. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports in 1980 represented food and
beverages, 22 percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent
machinery and equipment.
17.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a
minor share of the import bill. In 1980, they were estimated to be about
*38 million or some 6 percent of commodity imports. Much more important
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated
by labor income and private transfers. The latter rose rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $350 million in 1980.
This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to
additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized "own exchange"
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end 1974 to $234 million at
end 1980, equivalent to about 4 months of the imports.
18.      Foreign reserves increased moderately in 1980.  This probably
reflects rising imports and a slow-down in the growth of remittances. The
volume of imports is reported to have risen, especially for consumer goods
and fuels; in addition, import prices increased further. Labor income and
private transfers on the other hand, have grown at a slower pace as immigra-
tion and wages tended to stabilize in the oil exporting countries. Rising
import prices intensified inflationary pressures within PDRY; these pressures
were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels especially in the
private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank financing of
public sector expenditures.



-6-
External Debt
19.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1980
amounted to $1,241 million, of which $499 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $920 million or 72 percent of total commitments with
the USSR providing the bulk ($573 million), followed by China ($126 million),
other Eastern European countries ($150 million), and Arab countries ($71
million). Multilateral flows amounted to $321 million including $197 million
from Arab Funds, $86 million from IDA and $36 million from IMF. The terms of
all loans are highly concessionary. In addition, PDRY has received $255
million in grant assistance during 1974/80, mostly from Arab countries.
20.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1980 were $15
million or 4.4 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of
goods and services. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have started
to rise and are projected to increase further in future years. This will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view
of the above, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA
terms. For the same reason, local cost financing by IDA is justified.
21.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of
all the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substan-
tial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after
the promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the national-
ized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to
the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with
three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three
additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978,
and in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and with a bank
in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company of which IDA is
aware has however been very slow since there is still no agreement on a basis
on which to settle this claim. The Government professes its desire to reach
mutually acceptable settlements with all claimant companies, and has expressed
its willingness to consider such settlement outside the terms of the 1969
Nationalization Law.



- 7 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
key fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to
be an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
23.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 19 operations in PDRY, 2/ for a total commitment
of $114.2 million. Of this total, $32.8 million has assisted the transport
sector, $35.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $14.0 million the
power and energy sector, $15.4 million the education sector, and $16.7 million
the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from
delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included
the time required to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in re-
cruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors,
inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years shortages of both
skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being
properly implemented even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA
credits in PDRY has been consistently good during the past two years. It
is superior to other countries in the Middle East and compares favorably with
some of the best performers in the Bank. This trend is expected to continue.
Lessons learned from experience in earlier projects are being taken into
account in our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of IDA credits as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
1/ This part is substantially the same as in the President's Report for the
Second Power Project which is scheduled for presentation to the Executive
Directors on June 17, 1982.
2/ Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038 and the Third Education Project, which was approved by the
Executive Directors on April 1, 1982; but excluding the Second Power
Project which is scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors on
June 17, 1982.



24.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
Under preparation are a highways flood rehabilitation project, a first health
development project, and a follow-up agricultural project in Wadi Hadramawt.
Project possibilities in industry, transport, education and water supply are
also under consideration. Consultants will shortly be in PDRY to examine what
is required to rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure damaged in the March
1982 floods (see para. 14) in the areas of two IDA-assisted projects - Wadi
Tuban (768-YDR) and Wadi Beihan (1145-YDR) agricultural development projects.
As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are expected to be
substantially higher than the funds IDA can provide to PDRY. Therefore,
efforts will be continued to encourage other development agencies to join IDA
in the financing of suitable projects. From FY71 through FY81, IDA has been
successful in securing through its projects about $123 million of cofinancing
from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $26 million; Arab Fund
$46.2 million; Islamic Development Bank $11 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16
million, OPEC Fund $14.5 million, IFAD $6 million and EEC $3 million), thus
helping to increase the inflow of development aid to the country.
PART III - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
Fisheries in the National Economy
25.      Fish is the richest known natural resource in PDRY.  The country's
coastal waters and the wider Gulf of Aden are among the most productive
fishing grounds in the world. Given the extreme scarcity of other known
domestic resources, the development of fisheries holds considerable promise
in helping meet two of the country's most critical economic priorities--that
of boosting food production and of alleviating the severe labor shortage
especially of skilled workers and managers now existing in PDRY. IDA, from
its earliest involvement in economic work in PDRY, has drawn attention to the
potential of the sector. Fisheries is an important productive sector. In
1980 it accounted for about 5 percent of GDP and 47 percent of total exports,
making it by far the most important foreign exchange earner. Measured against
the sector's potential, however, these achievements can at best be considered
modest. The sector suffers from low overall productivity and presently
exploits only a fraction of the estimated annual sustainable yield of 370,000
tons. Total fish production amounted to about 75,000 tons in 1980 and 63,000
tons in 1981.
Government Policy and Investment
26.      The evolution of PDRY's fisheries sector over the last decade has
been characterized by three major policy measures. Following independence
in 1967 and the Government's decision to direct economic activities within
the framework of social planning, consistent with socialist objectives,
traditional fisheries in the country were socialized and organized into
14 cooperatives. Concurrently, the traditional fish marketing structure
was abolished and replaced by a cooperative marketing system controlled
through Government administered prices. The second policy measure expanded
and diversified the fisheries sector by introducing a fleet of large, highly
mechanized industrial fishing vessels and associated shore facilities for



- 9 -
processing and storage of fish. The objective of this was to exploit the
country's rich fish resources more rapidly and primarily for export, thereby
increasing the country's extremely low levels of foreign exchange earnings.
With the adoption of the third policy measure, PDRY's fishing grounds beyond
a three mile limit reserved for the traditional coastal fisheries coopera-
tives, were opened to foreign fishing fleets which now operate under joint
venture and license agreements with the Government. The results of these
policies were modest at best (see para. 25), and a major reason for the
unsatisfactory results was lack of adequate incentives. Beginning in
1979 therefore the Government began to raise fish prices and permitted the
cooperative fishermen to sell a portion of their catch on the free market.
In October, 1981 the Government further liberalized its price and marketing
controls on the traditional coastal fisheries subsector. Initial results
measured in terms of increases in catches and in numbers of fishermen
rejoining fisheries cooperatives are encouraging.
27.      Recognizing the important role of the fisheries sector in the
national economy, the Government has made substantial capital outlays for its
development over the years. Fisheries accounted for about 10 percent of the
entire development expenditures, or about $102 million between 1971 and 1980.
The emphasis on the sector's development is to continue under the Second Five
Year Plan (1981-85) during which approximately $78 million, or some 5 percent
of the total Plan expenditures of about $1.5 billion, will be spent on
fisheries development. The Government with bilateral assistance will continue
to concentrate on building up a modern, capital-intensive industrial fishing
fleet. The proposed project would focus on providing trained manpower in both
the industrial and the artisanal fisheries subsectors and would also provide
the traditional coastal fisheries subsector with integrated fish processing,
storage, and marketing facilities. This two-pronged approach is expected to
strengthen the sector as a whole, and address the sector's two most critical
constraints, the lack of trained manpower at all levels and the lack of
facilities in the traditional subsector.
Fish Exploitation
28.      PDRY's fish resources are presently exploited by three distinct
subsectors: the traditional coastal fisheries cooperatives, the modern
industrial fishing fleet and joint venture and licensed fisheries operations.
29.      Traditional Coastal Fisheries Cooperatives.  This subsector is
composed of approximately 40 fishing villages with a total of about 5,000
fishermen. Almost all of these are members of the 14 production cooperatives-
The restructuring of traditional fisheries into cooperatives and the intro-
duction of administered prices in the early 1970's resulted in a sharp decline
in production. This situation persisted until 1980 when the pricing and
marketing reforms began to reverse production trends (see para. 26). With a
few minor exceptions, all development resources allocated to the fisheries
sector have been devoted to the development of industrial fisheries. The one
major exception where external funds were invested in the traditional
subsector was the IDA-financed First Fisheries Development Project (370-YDR)
of FY73 (para. 38). This pattern will change somewhat under the



- 10 -
Second Five Year Plan when a larger proportion of total investment in the
fisheries subsector is expected to go to the traditional subsector.
30.      Despite the lack of official development support, the traditional
coastal fisheries subsector has remained the most important and productive
component in fisheries exploitation in PDRY. In 1981 the traditional sector
contributed 21,600 tons or slightly more than one-third of the national
catch. This is well below this subsector's potential, but actual production
might be well above the official figures since cooperatives may underreport
the volume of free market sales.
31.      Industrial Fisheries.  The development of an industrial fishing fleet
was started only about 10 years ago, when the Government decided that the
traditional coastal fisheries subsector alone was not capable of exploiting
the country's fish resources fully. Since then the Ministry of Fish Wealth
(MFW) has acquired 19 new and used trawlers ranging in size from 200 to 2000
gross tons from Japan, the USSR and the People's Republic of China. Eight
purse seiners were later purchased from Norway and Spain to catch sardines and
anchovies and orders for yet another five purse seiners have been placed
recently in Japan. The establishment of the industrial fishing fleet has been
accompanied by the rapid development of complementary onshore fish processing
and storage facilities, some of which are still under construction. In 1981
the industrial subsector accounted for 11,300 tons of fish production; that is
only 18 percent of the national catch. This subsector is plagued by technical
and managerial problems which have kept productivity at very low levels. The
most serious constraint is the shortage of trained and skilled manpower at all
levels which is discussed in more detail in para. 37.
32.      Joint Venture and Licensing Operations.  The Government has entered
into joint venture operations with two private Japanese fishing concerns and
with the Soviet Union. A fourth venture with Libya is about to become
operational, and one with Algeria is under discussion. In 1981 production
of joint venture trawlers was 3,600 tons which represented 6 percent of the
national catch. A number of USSR fishing vessels operate under license
agreements for which PDRY receives 32 percent of the catch as fee. In 1981
these vessels caught 26,400 tons of fish or 42 percent of the national catch.
Fisheries Administration
33.      In 1977, the growing importance of the fisheries sector was reflected
in the evolution of the Public Corporation for Fish Wealth (PCFW), which was
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR), into the
Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW). The MFW has broad responsibility for the
fisheries sector in PDRY. In addition to its administrative, fiscal and
regulatory duties, it is responsible for the operation and management of
the industrial fleet, a fleet of small traditional boats, a chain of cold
stores and fish processing plants, joint venture operations and domestic and
export marketing. Recently the MFW's responsibility was further enlarged by
transferring to it jurisdiction over all fisheries cooperatives in the country
from the MAAR, the objective being to improve coordination between the sector's



- 11 -
basic productive units and its national administrative and policy making
body. The MFW has under its jurisdiction four financially independent
corporations: the Yemen Fishing Corporation, which owns and operates the
industrial fishing fleet; the Coastal Fishing Corporation in charge of rock
lobster fishing and processing; the National Fish Marketing Corporation
(NFMC), responsible for domestic and export marketing; and the Yemen Fish
Meal Company, which owns and operates the purse seiner fleet and the fish
meal factories. It is also responsible for the National Cold Storage Company
which operates a chain of cold stores on a commercial basis.
34.      Since 1979 the staff of the MFW has grown from 300 to 3,800 at
present. Following the completion of projects now being implemented and the
expansion of the industrial fishing fleet, this number is estimated to reach
4,600 by 1985. To strengthen the supervision of the MFW's many operational
and development activities a second Deputy Minister was appointed in 1980.
The new Deputy Minister is responsible for the traditional coastal fisheries
subsector and fish meal and canning operations.
Training and Research
35.      A secondary level fisheries training institute was established within
the then PCFW in 1970 with the assistance of the USSR. It has not operated
well because of very poor facilities and equipment and will be closed down
once the Fisheries Management Development Center (FMDC) to be constructed
under the proposed project is completed. Yemenis are trained abroad through
bilateral and multilateral assistance programs. About 75 trainees are now in
Eastern European countries and another 70 are undergoing post secondary
training in the USSR. There is no specific fisheries related training at a
higher level available in the country. To be able to offer the level of
training needed to manage and operate modern fisheries installations and
vessels, the country's fisheries related training efforts must be revised, a
competent teaching staff trained and adequate physical training facilities
provided.
36.      MFW is responsible for conducting research in the fisheries field.
Very little progress has been made so far due to the lack of qualified and
experienced research workers. A post graduate marine research institute is
presently being established in Aden with financial assistance from the Islamic
Development Bank and technical assistance from UNESCO.
Fisheries Manpower Situation
37.      There is a critical lack of both skilled and unskilled manpower
in the fisheries sector. In the MFW, which is responsible for virtually all
the employment in the sector, 17 percent of the 3,800 staff are categorized as
engineers and technicians, 23 percent perform administrative functions and 60
percent are semi-skilled and unskilled laborers. Only 15 percent of its staff
have completed secondary school, 33 percent are primary school graduates and
52 percent have received no formal training. The most seriously affected
areas are the industrial fishing fleet, and the fish processing and cold
storage plants, and PDRY already relies heavily on foreign experts to keep at



- 12 -
least some of its plant and vessels operating. In the industrial fisheries
subsector, only a small number of posts which require substantial technical
qualifications are presently held by Yemenis, and in many cases these few do
not have the minimum qualifications required e.g. a skipper's certificate or a
marine engineer's ticket. Unless the number of qualified technicians is
increased, the investment projects now being completed and those to be
undertaken in the Second Five Year Plan period will be operated only at very
low capacity utilization levels. The situation is less critical in the
traditional coastal fisheries subsector but more highly qualified technicians,
managers, accountants and marketing staff are nevertheless required.
IDA Strategy and Past Lending
38.      IDA's support for fisheries development in PDRY to date has been
exclusively oriented towards the traditional coastal fisheries subsector. The
Village Fisheries Development component of the proposed project continues this
strategy, which is based on the premise that the development of this subsector
is likely to have the greatest impact on increasing fish production in PDRY as
well as having a widespread development impact. To enable the country to
make better use of the substantial investment that has already been made in
the industrial fisheries sector, the establishment of a Fisheries Manpower
Development Center (FMDC) is included in the proposed project, which over the
years would reduce the prevailing shortage of trained manpower which is
presently the key constraint for this subsector. IDA's assistance to the
fisheries sector in PDRY began with the First Fisheries Development Project
(Credit 370-YDR) for a $3.5 million credit in FY73 and a supplementary credit
(370-1-YDR) for $1.6 million in FY75 to develop the traditional coastal
fisheries subsector. The project provided for (i) the construction of
onshore facilities for processing, freezing and storage of fish at Al
Mukalla and As Shihr in the Hadramawt Governorate; (ii) the construction of
100 modified traditional fishing vessels (sambuks), and (iii) the provision
of technical assistance and consulting services. The 100 fishing vessels
provided for under the project have been delivered and are operating
successfully. The 800-ton cold store at Al Mukalla and the fish receiving
station at As Shihr are now in satisfactory working condition. The project
is fully completed. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) (Report No.
3755) issued on December 31, 1981 concluded that (i) completion of civil works
took twice as long and costs were 38 percent higher than estimated at
reappraisal; (ii) because of poor management and delays in completing a
separate Al Mukalla port project, in which IDA was not involved, utilization
of onshore facilities is low; (iii) the financial rate of return and
productivity of the 100 fish- ing vessels exceeded appraisal estimates; (iv)
the project was successful in building institutional capability for
administration of fisheries development projects; (v) the ERR of the project
was 13 percent compared to 35 percent estimated at reappraisal mainly because
of delays in completing the port at Al Mukalla out of which most of the 100
project fishing vessels were to operate; and (vi) the Government failed to
enforce the agreed cost recovery procedures for the fishing vessels. The
shortcomings in project execution have been discussed extensively with the
Government, which has taken the remedial measures necessary, including price
and marketing reforms, to ensure that the onshore facilities operate
efficiently and at reasonable capacity levels.



- 13 -
39.      An IDA credit of $10 million for a Second Fisheries Development
Project (932-YDR) was approved in FY79 to construct a fisheries and general
cargo port at Nishtun with supporting infrastructure, in Al Mahra Governorate,
the easternmost and least developed of the six governorates in the country.
In addition to the construction of the port, the other main project components
are (i) construction of fisb receiving, processing and storage facilities and
the development of an efficient fish collection and distribution system for
exploiting fish; (ii) construction of a 19 km road to provide a link between
the new port and the nine fishing villages which would deliver their catches
to the Nishtun facilities; (iii) technical assistance comprising 454 manmonths
of consultants' services to assist with project implementation and operation;
experts to assist with cold store operations and export marketing; and a
national survey of nutritional conditions in the country which could lead to a
component of corrective measures to be included in a future IDA-supported
project. The project is two years behind schedule because of the need to
identify new cofinanciers. The financing package was finally completed by the
Abu Dhabi Fund in 1980. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
provided supplementary financing in 1982 to cover the cost overrun caused by
the delay. Construction of the port of Nishtun, the project's principal
component began in December 1981, is proceeding well, and it is hoped that
some of the time lost may be recovered. The lessons learned from IDA's
experience with both these projects have been taken into account in designing
the proposed project.
Project Area
40.      Labor Island which is located within the Port of Aden will be the
location of the proposed FMDC. About 36,000 m2 have been assigned to the
project. It is a suitable site for the project because of its location in the
capital city, its immediate access to the sea which allows landing of fish and
berthing of training vessels, and its vicinity to the new major fishing port,
presently under construction with the assistance of the USSR and to the new
Marine Research Institute being established jointly by the Islamic Development
Bank and UNESCO. The island is linked to the mainland by a causeway and
avails of the city's fresh water, electricity and telephone system. A large
amount of debris needs to be cleared from the site and such clearance would be
a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit agreement (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). A large number of shipwrecks also clutter the
waters surrounding the island. The Government would clear these by May 31,
1984 prior to the start of construction (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.05).
41.      The five villages belonging to the four fisheries cooperatives
selected for the proposed Fisheries Village Development component are
Ras al Ara, Ras Imran, Bi'rt Ali, Shuqra and Fukum (see map). The villages
are spread over a distance of about 600 km ranging from 140 km west of Aden
to 450 km east of Aden. The five villages have a total population of about
4,000 of whom 700 are active fishermen who operate a total of 70 larger
traditional fishing vessels (sambuks) and 190 smaller traditional fishing



- 14 -
vessels (houris). The coastline is flat with sandy or gravel covered beaches,
and all of the villages are either located on safe bays or are sheltered by
offshore reefs. While Bi'r' Ali and Shuqra are located east of Aden along
the Aden-Al Mukalla main road, Fukum, Ras Imran and Ras al Ara are situated
west of Aden. The fishing grounds in these villages are particularly rich
and its fishermen have demonstrated remarkable ability to cope with their
logistical disadvantages. Fukum is the only one of these villages with a
road connection. Ras Imran can only be reached by the beach at low-tide or
desert tracks further inland during high tide. Ras al Ara, located west of
Aden, is close to the entrance of the Red Sea and can only be reached by
passing through rough desert terrain using shifting sand tracks. Bi'r' Ali,
Shuqra and Fukum have the advantage of easy access to the major markets of
Aden and Mukalla. Shuqra has the additional advantage of having a fish
canning plant located next to its landing site.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
42.      The project was identified after a joint identification mission
of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and the FAO International Indian
Ocean fishery Survey Development Program. The Kuwait Fund provided financial
assistance and FAO provided technical assistance for the preparation of the
project. IDA and the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program carried out a
preparation assistance mission in April/May 1981 and appraised the project in
September/October 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in May, 1982.
The Yemeni delegation was headed by Mr.Yehya, Deputy Prime-Minister and
Minister of Fish Wealth. A staff appraisal report entitled "Third Fisheries
Development Project (No. 3806-YDR) dated May 20, 1982 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. A map of PDRY showing the project
areas is attached. Special Conditions in the Development Credit Agreement are
summarized in Annex III.
Project Objectives
43.      The project would address two of the sector's most critical
constraints, the lack of trained manpower at all levels and the lack of
adequate fish handling, storage, transport and repair facilities in the
traditional coastal fisheries subsector.  The project would help to alle-
viate these constraints by establishing a specialized training facility for
the fisheries sector and developing an investment program for four selected
fisheries cooperatives providing fisheries related infrastructure and onshore
facilities.
Project Description
44.      The project would consist of (i) the establishment of the Fisheries
Manpower Development Center (FMDC), a self-contained specialized training
facility designed to meet the fisheries sector's specific manpower needs,
(ii) financing of refrigeration equipment for the training of refrigeration



- 15 -
technicians, (iii) the development of four existing fisheries cooperatives
comprising five villages by providing integrated fish landing, handling,
storage, marketing, transport and repair facilities to enable them to
handle all fisheries related activities from catch to final retail marketing.
Fisheries Manpower Development Center (FMDC)
45.      The FMDC would provide training at three different levels:
(a) Formal Pre-service Training. This will lead ultimately to
international certification for deck officers and marine engineers for the
industrial fishing fleet and a diploma for managers and supervisors of onshore
fish processing and storage facilities. Formal pre-service training will be
provided in a five-year program in three specializations (i) navigation and
commercial fishing, (ii) marine engineering and (iii) fish handling, proces-
sing and distribution. A fourth specialization, refrigeration engineering,
may also be added (see para. 49). Candidates for the training program will
be selected from among primary (unity) school graduates. In addition to their
academic training at the FMDC, trainees for the sea-going occupations will
undergo between two and three years of training at sea under the guidance of
certified officers before they qualify to be examined for their international
certificate. The FMDC's minimum training requirements, both theoretical and
practical, will qualify its graduates for the international certification of
skippers and engineers. In addition to theoretical training, future managers
and supervisors of shore-based facilities will undergo practical instruction
at FMDC's own pilot processing and storage facilities as well as at the MFW's
onshore fish processing plants. Twenty-four trainees will be recruited annu-
ally for each of the three specializations leading to a total annual intake of
72 students in the pre-service training program or a total enrollment of about
300 persons. As a result of high anticipated drop-out rates especially during
the seagoing training, FMDC will graduate approximately 40 trainees annually.
Since it is Government policy to offer students of specialized training
institutes financial incentives to undergo lengthy training programs, the
Government would offer adequate financial and other incentives to FMDC
students to attract adequate numbers of qualified applicants (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.02(b)).
(b) In-service Training: This type of training will be provided in
areas of expertise that will be identified from time to time depending on the
sector's immediate needs. The level and duration will be designed with high
flexibility. Priority will be given to MFW employees, but in-service training
will also be available to fishermen and others employed in the traditional
coastal fisheries subsector.
(c) Fisheries Extension Service: FMDC will organize and operate an
extension service with field stations in Aden, Al Mukalla and Muhayfif (near
Al Ghaydah), the principal fishing centers in PDRY. At each station, a
fisheries extension specialist will carry out extension activities and will
coordinate his work with the FMDC which will also provide technical back-up
and administrative support. Extension workers, who will be recruited from the



- 16 -
geographic area of their future assignment, will undergo intensive training at
the FMDC and will be organized in mobile units to cover a number of fishing
villages. An expatriate fisheries adviser will be appointed to the FMDC for
a period of three years to help organize the extension service during its
development phase.
Teacher Training Program
46.      Since only well trained and experienced teachers can adequately
prepare trainees for their future assignments, the teaching staff at the
FMDC will be required to have a master's degree or its equivalent. Only a
few Yemenis can currently meet this requirement. Hence, a teacher training
program comprising 32 staffyears in overseas training would be prepared by a
fisheries training adviser following approval of the proposed IDA credit and
actual overseas training would begin about three months thereafter. The
scope, duration and timing of the proposed teacher training program were
discussed and agreed at negotiations.
Technical Assistance
47.                For the preparation and prompt commencement of construction
of the FMDC and for the subsequent development of its training programs, the
project would provide 123 man-months of technical assistance. In order to
avoid unnecessary delay in project implementation, the Government has retained
consulting engineers for the preparation of detailed designs and contract
documents and to assist in advertising and tender evaluation prior to
negotiations. This work is being financed through a Project Preparation
Facility advance of $125,000. The development of FMDC's training programs
would be carried out in three phases. In the first phase a fisheries training
advisor would design the teacher training program, select candidates for
teacher training and organize their training overseas. In the second phase
consultants would prepare detailed curricula, syllabi and timetables for the
various teaching programs. In the third phase, internationally recruited
teaching staff would supplement the local teaching staff in teaching
navigation, fishing technology, marine engineering, fish processing and
marketing and in fisheries extension during the initial period after the
opening of the FMDC. The Government would employ training, management,
accounting and engineering consultants and experts whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
Training Facilities
48.      The FMDC would be located on Labor Island in the port of Aden and
housed in a cluster of single-storey buildings. In addition to classrooms,
laboratories and other required facilities, the FMDC would also be equipped
with a fish landing platform, a captain's platform for training in the use
of navigational instruments, a training mast, two training vessels (modified
sambuks, the traditional fishing vessels in PDRY) and a pilot fish processing
plant. The proposed building program for the FMDC was discussed and agreed at
negotiations.



- 17 -
Refrigeration and Electrical Technician Training
49.      The Maala Technical Institute in Aden conducts secondary level
courses in refrigeration and electrical technician training. The electrical
course is satisfactory, and therefore does not need to be replicated within
the FMDC. The MFW will recruit graduates of the electrical course to fill its
openings in this technical specialty. However, the refrigeration course does
not meet the MFW's requirements. A study would be carried out to determine
whether it is better to upgrade this existing refrigeration course or whether
it should be included in the specializations taught at the FMDC (see para.
45(a)). The terms of reference for this study, which is also being financed
under the Project Preparation Facility advance (see para. 47), were discussed
and agreed at negotiations.  An amount of $400,000 is included in the credit
to help finance refrigeration equipment for this improved refrigeration
technician training.
Fisheries Village Development Component
50.      The development of four existing fisheries cooperatives in five
villages--Ras al Ara, Ras Imran, Bi'r' Ali, Shuqra, and Fukum--is designed
to enable them to evolve from their present role of production units of the
National Fish Marketing Corporation (NFMC) into fully independent commercial
enterprises. The proposed investment packages will generally include a fish
receiving shed equipped with platform scale; brine tanks and fish boxes where
the landed catch is weighed, cleaned, gutted and iced; a chill room and a
fleet of insulated trucks.  The package will also include vessel repair and
maintenance facilities as well as electric generators. In some fisheries
villages, adjustments and improvements to the existing fisheries and related
infrastructure will be necessary: a causeway with landing platform and a
700 m approach road will be built in Ras Imran; a 45 m landing jetty and an
independent fresh water supply system will be installed in Shuqra; the
existing ice plant and cold store in Bi'r' Ali will be connected by a 130 m
causeway and a landing platform with a fish off-loading area. Technical
assistance for a total of 33 manmonths would be provided to assist the
fisheries cooperatives during their transition from operating units of the
YFMC to independent commercial enterprises. The MFW would appoint an
internationally recruited financial and accounting advisor to work out
operational and administrative guidelines for the cooperatives. He would
assist the cooperatives in dealing with financial matters particularly with
cost recovery procedures.  The cooperative department would appoint an
internationally recruited mechanical engineer for a period of 3 years to
assist cooperatives in operating and maintaining their newly acquired
equipment and train the mechanics of the participating cooperatives.  The
Government would employ a financial and accounting adviser and a mechanical
engineer whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment are satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.03).
Project Costs and Financing
51.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and taxes which
are not applicable to development projects in PDRY, is estimated at $21.4



- 18 -
million including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is $14.0
million or 66 percent of the total project cost. The FMDC component will cost
$12.7 million or 59 percent of total project cost and the Fisheries Village
Development component the balance. These estimates are based on December 1981
prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent for all civil works for the FMDC
and 15 percent for the Fisheries Village Development component are considered
adequate. Physical contingencies on equipment range from 5 to 15 percent
depending on the nature of the equipment. Civil works costs are based on unit
prices derived from current contracts for similar works, and imported
equipment, furniture and building costs reflect current international prices.
Price contingencies on local and foreign costs are compounded annually at a
rate of 8.5 percent for 1982, 7.5 percent for 1983-85 and 6 percent for 1986.
Total contingencies are about 35 percent of the base costs. The cost of
consultant's services for the FMDC is based on an average manmonth rate of
$8,600, including all expenses. The cost of the technicians in the Fisheries
Village Development component is based on an average manmonth rate of $6000,
including all expenses. These are appropriate costs for these items in this
sector in PDRY.
52.      The proposed IDA credit of $6.0 million would finance 28 percent
of the total costs and 39 percent of the foreign exchange costs. A proposed
IFAD loan would provide $5.0 million which would cover 23 percent of the total
costs and 30 percent of the foreign exchange costs and a proposed EEC Special
Action credit would provide $3.4 million, which would cover 16 percent of the
total costs and 24 percent of the foreign exchange costs. The Government
would finance the balance of the project costs. The proposed EEC Special
Action credit and IFAD loan would have the same financial terms and condi-
tions as the IDA credit, except that there would be no commitment charge on
undisbursed funds under the EEC Special Action Credit. About $0.6 million
of the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit and $0.8 million of the proceeds
of the proposed IFAD loan would finance local costs. This is considered
appropriate because of PDRY's domestic resource and foreign exchange
constraints. The Government stated during negotiations that it would
finance any shortfall in the US dollar equivalent of the EEC Special Action
Credit which might result from foreign exchange fluctuations. The appointment
by IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD loan and the
effectiveness of the IFAD loan and the EEC Special Action credit would be
conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit agreement (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 7.01).
Cost Recovery
53.      The costs involved in establishing the FMDC are considered to be
social costs, which do not require special cost recovery procedures, direct or
indirect. With the exception of infrastructure improvements, the project
costs of the investments in the four fisheries cooperatives would be fully
recovered at the prevailing interest rate of 5.5 percent over a period of up
to 10 years depending on the lifetime of the individual investment
components. The cooperatives would be required to maintain an account at the
National Bank of Yemen (NBY) where they must deposit all revenues in excess of
small amounts of cash. Loan repayments would be debited directly from these
accounts. The Government would apply this cost recovery scheme to the four



- 19 -
participating cooperatives and has agreed that any agreement IDA reaches with
the Government with respect to future interest rate adjustments (see para. 54)
would be applied to sub-loans under this project as well (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.03).
54.      The interest rate of 5.5 percent to be charged to the cooperatives
is low relative to inflation in PDRY which increased from 5 percent in 1978
to an average 10.5 percent for the following three years.  The inflation rate
is estimated to be 8 percent in 1982 and 198-  :.d 7 pe.rt-'r  in 1984.  Interest
rates in PDRY are playing a small but increasing role in resource allocation
within the economy.  The interest rates applied for cost recovery under the
proposed project would be the same as that agreed under the Wadi Beihan
Agricultural Development Project (1145-YDR) which is higher than NBY's
standard rate of 2 percent.  The project would also widen the range of
institutions which finance their operations with interest bearing funds by
changing the financial repayment procedures of the fisheries cooperatives
included in the project.  Further opportunity to adjust the structure and
level of interest rates in PDRY will occur as a result of the ongoing review
with the Government on the recently completed prices, taxation and subsidies
study financed by IDA under the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project
(768-YDR).  Under the Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project (Credit
1145-YDR), the Government has agreed that the jointly agreed recommendations
of this study would begin to be implemented within one year of the completion
of the review.
55.      In some villages, improvements and additions to fisheries related
infrastructure such as causeways, landing jetties and access roads have no
quantifiable benefits.  The costs would be recovered indirectly through
incremental tax revenues to be generated by the project over a period of 13
years.  Costs for technical assistance, preparatory design and construction
supervision are considered non-recoverable.  At a discount rate of 12 percent,
the net present value of the costs and tax receipts indicate that, over 20
years, 60 percent would be recovered.
Project Execution
56.      The MFW would be responsible for construction of the FMDC.  A Project
Implementation Unit under the supervision of the Assistant Deputy Minister of
Planning in the MFW would execute the project's construction program which
would begin in 1983 and be completed by the end of 1985. The MFW would by
December 1, 1982 establish and thereafter maintain a Project Implementation
Unit with an organization, staff and terms of reference which are satisfactory
to IDA and would appoint a Project Manager and an accountant whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment are satisfactory to IDA
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02).  During the construction phase,
project management will be limited mainly to construction supervision and
procurement of equipment and furniture.  The Project Manager would be assisted
by a firm of consulting engineers in construction supervision and coordination
of the technical aspects of the project (see para. 47).



- 20 -
57.      Once the building program of the FMDC is completed, the facilities
would be handed over to the training department of the MFW who would also
be responsible for monitoring the relevance of the training programs and
curricula as well as the enrollment, attrition and graduation of trainees.
Before the graduation of the first group of in-service trainees it would
develop a tracer system based on criteria satisfactory to IDA and would
carry out a tracer study for analysis of job placements for five years
following graduation of FMDC's first entering class (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.02(c)). The MFW would appoint a qualified Yemeni as
FMDC's director by September 30, 1984, whose qualifications, experience and
terms of employment are satisfactory to IDA, and a registrar who would take
charge of all day-to-day administrative matters and recruit trainees accord-
ing to FMDC's recruitment policies, and two deputy directors all with suitable
qualifications and experience by January 31, 1985. One deputy director would
organize and implement FMDC's pre-service training program and the other the
in-service training program and extension activities (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.02(a)). The training department of the MFW would also
monitor the FMDC fisheries extension program.
58.      The MFW would also be responsible for the implementation of the
Fisheries Village Development component. The respective cooperatives would
take possession of the onshore facilities once they have been completed.
Completion is expected by December 31, 1987. For the first three years of
their operations after project completion the cooperatives would be assisted
by a financial and accounting adviser and by a mechanical engineer (see para.
50). The Government would forward certified copies of the project accounts
as well as an annual audit report to IDA not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c)).
Procurement
59.      IDA would jointly administer the proposed IDA, IFAD and EEC credits.
Civil works contracts totalling $12.2 million would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Bid packages for equipment for the Fisheries Village
Development component as well as the equipment and installations for the FMDC
totalling $2.2 million would also be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small items
or groups of items of furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than
$1,000 or items of a specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical
would be procured under normal government procedures which are satisfactory to
IDA and would include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three
suppliers or manufacturers in Bank member countries. The total value of
furniture and equipment so procured would not exceed $50,000 equivalent. In
the evaluation of furniture and equipment bids under ICB, local manufacturers
would be allowed a margin of preference in comparison with foreign bids equal
to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15
percent of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Since availability of spare
parts and repair services in PDRY is restricted, it would be advisable to
purchase the same makes of vehicles and fishing vessels for training as those



- 21 -
already in the country; thus, procurement under limited international
tendering (LIT) procedures on the basis of not less than three quotations from
suppliers in eligible countries can be justified for vehicles and fishing
vessels totalling $1.2 million. Overseas teacher training costing
approximately $1.3 million would involve the education of Yemeni nationals at
foreign training institutions in preparation for future teaching assignments
at the FMDC. The selection of training institutions for Yemeni trainees for
the teacher training program would be decided by the Government with IDA's
prior approval.
Disbursement
60.      The IDA credit would be disbursed over five calendar years and
the closing date would be June 30, 1988. Disbursements would be made on
the basis of (i) 25 percent of expenditures for civil works for the FMDC;
(ii) 50 percent of foreign expenditures for overseas teacher training;
(iii) 48 percent of foreign expenditures on consultants' services for
technical assistance, designs and construction supervision for the FMDC; (iv)
30 percent of expenditures on incremental operating costs for the FMDC; (v)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for refrigeration equipment;
(vi) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures
ex factory on equipment and vehicles to be procured through ICB for the
Fisheries Village Development component; and (vii) 46 percent of foreign
expenditures on consultants' services for the Fisheries Village Development
Component. From the IFAD loan disbursements would be made on the basis of (i)
25 percent of expenditures for civil works for the FMDC; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 100 percent of local expenditures ex factory for
equipment, furniture, materials and vehicles for the FMDC; (iii) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures ex factory on
vessels to be procured through limited international tendering; (iv) 50
percent of foreign expenditures for overseas teacher training; (v) 52 percent
of foreign expenditures on consultants' services for technical assistance,
designs and construction supervision for the FMDC; (vi) 30 percent of
expenditures on incremental operating costs for the FMDC; and (vii) 54 percent
of foreign expenditures on consultants' services for the Fisheries Village
Development component. From the EEC Special Action credit disbursements would
be made on the basis of 75 percent of expenditures on civil works for the
Fisheries Village Development component. Disbursements would be made against
normal documentation except for incremental operating costs which would be
made against statements of expenditures.
Environmental Effects
61.      The proposed project will improve the environment of Labor Island,
the site of the FMDC. At present it is not used and is littered with
discarded equipment and vessels. The island will be cleared and a seawall
will be built to protect the island and the buildings. Plants will be grown
and sewage facilities and refuse disposal will be provided. No deterioration
of environmental conditions is expected with respect to the Fisheries Village
Development component. Although higher fish landings will produce more
refuse, they will not pose any safety hazards as they dry and decompose
quickly under the intense sunlight.



- 22 -
Production, Marketing and Prices
62.      As a result of the project, fish landings in the four participating
cooperatives are expected to increase from their present level of 5,000 tons
to about 6,500 tons a year at full development. There will also be a shift
from lower quality to higher quality species of fish caught and a substantial
reduction in the present high spoilage rates. The combined effect of larger
landings and reduced spoilage will increase sales volume of the four cooper-
atives from 3,300 to 5,500 tons a year, an increase of 66 percent.
63.      The proposed project would reduce the dependence of cooperatives on
the NFMC whose inability to move fish from the point of landing to market
promptly and efficiently has affected the level of fish production in the
traditional coastal fisheries subsector. Even with the project, the cooper-
atives would still depend to some extent on the NFMC as a marketing outlet
during peak fishing seasons when they are unable to sell their entire catches
through their own retail marketing outlet. Projections of future fish prices
are conservative because of inadequate information as to the price elasticity
of demand for fish.
64.      Although reliable household consumption data is not available, a
recent study by NFMC suggests, for example, that only 25 percent of poten-
tial demand for fresh fish is satisfied in Seiyun, the major town of the Wadi
Hadramawt area, which has a population of about 75,000. It is safe to assume
that potential demand in this and other market areas is substantially above
present effective demand. Project investments will assure a steady and ade-
quate supply to existing markets and extend marketing of fish into areas that
are not reached at present. The estimated incremental project sales will be
realized five years after the start of project implementation at which time
demand will have further expanded. NFMC also plans to increase exports
substantially and offer to pay cooperatives actually obtained export market
prices for their exportable supplies minus a 5 percent commission. Thus
there will be no difficulty in disposing of the increased catch generated
by the project.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
65.      The 40 technicians to be graduated annually from the FMDC through
the pre-service training program would provide much needed specialists,
whose introduction in the fisheries sector is expected to improve productivity
substantially. A large number of MFW's present employees would benefit from
the in-service training programs. The extension service would enable the
dissemination of information on improved handling and storage practices to
remote fishing villages which normally do not have access to any technical
assistance
66.      Under the Fisheries Village Development component, the income of
about 700 fishermen in the four participating cooperatives, one of the
lowest income groups in PDRY, is estimated to increase by between 80 and 105
percent. An estimated 150,000 Yemenis would also enjoy a more varied and more
reliable supply of fresh fish.



- 23 -
67.      The principal economic benefit of the FMDC component would be an
increase in the supply of adequately trained manpower. With an annual
capital cost of $1.4 million discounted at 12 percent, in addition to annual
operating costs estimated at $0.4 million, the total annual cost of the FMDC
would be $1.8 million. The FMDC would be economically justified if it would
lead to an increase in fish production of just 5 percent over its useful life
of 20 years or an average annual increase of 0.25 percent. Increases in fish
production over the next 20 years are expected to substantially exceed a 5
percent increase.
68.      The economic rate of return for the Fisheries Villages Development
component is estimated at 22.5 percent. Sensitivity tests indicate that
benefits can decrease by 23 percent and investment costs can increase by
about 30 percent before the overall rate of return would decline to 12
percent. In the worst scenario, where costs would increase by 20 percent
and benefits lag by two years, the rate of return would be 6 percent. This
outcome is considered highly unlikely because of the project's substantial
technical assistance component and because of the recent pricing and marketing
policy changes made by the Government (see para. 26).
69.      The principal risks for the FMDC component are possible delays in
construction and inadequate staffing. To reduce these risks, the project
would provide substantial technical assistance both during the construc-
tion period and during the initial years of operation. Preparation of final
designs and tender documents are underway and this will also help avoid
unnecessary delays in project implementation. The principal risks for the
Fisheries Village Development component are shortfalls and delays in realizing
the projected benefits. The degree of these risks is dependent to a large
extent on fishermen cooperation and the quality of cooperative management
which in turn are related to the level of financial incentives and the
prevailing policy regime. These have improved in recent years and this risk
is now considered reasonable (see para. 26).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the draft Special Action
Credit Agreement between the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen and the
Association as Administrator, and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. The
appointment by IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD
loan, the effectiveness of the IFAD loan and the EEC Special Action credit and
the clearance of the construction site for the FMDC located on Labor Island
are additional conditions of effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 7.01).



- 24 -
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed Special Action
Credit would be in conformity with the Agreement between the Association, the
EEC and its member states dated May 2, 1978.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit
and the proposed EEC Special Action credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 1, 1982.
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-25 -                                             Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN PDR                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
LAND AREA (THUUSAND SO. KC.)                                                           - MYST RECENT ESTIMAIEM
TOTAL            333.0                                                     MIDDLE INCOYE
AGRICULTURAL      93.3                                MDST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &         HEDDLE INCOKE
1960  Lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb        MYDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNY PER CAPITA (US$)                   ..           4. 420.0  /1                865.5                  1616.2
NERGY CONSUMPTlON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF CUAL EqUIVALENI)    236.5       274.0    545.4                 758.3                  1324.1
POPULAIIN14 AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1252.0     1508.0    1855.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0       32.1      36.4                 45.2                    64.2
POPULA11ON PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAK 2000 (MILLIONS)                      3.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        8.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                       3.8         4.5       5.6                 36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    14.0        16.0      19.4                442.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.8        45.5      46.6                 44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        51.9      50.8                 52.4                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.9         2.6       2.6                  3.4                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         U.9/c     2.3/c                2.7                     2.4
UKBAN                             5.8         3.2       3.7                  4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.4        48.5      46.4                 41.5                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.6        24.0      20.0                 12.8                     8.4
GRoSS REPRUDUCTION RATE             3.7         3.8       3.3                  2.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FODl PRODUCTION
PER CAPIIA (1969-71-100)        100.0        92.0     103.0                 96.3                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  84.0        91.0      81.0                110.4                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         51.0        53.0      55.0                 73.4                    65.8
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      18.0        16.0      18.0                 17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    53.9        42.8      34.1                 14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFb EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   36.2        40.6      44.9                 55.9                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY KATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..         ..        ..                   ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      24.0                 59.4                    65.7
URBAN                              ..          ..      30.0                 83.9                    79.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0                 40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    59.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        13758.2    34261.9   7759.7                 4174.5                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..          ..   1617.7                1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1154.0       978.0    647.8                 647.4                   471.2
URBAN                              ..          ..    321.8                 547.2                   558.0
RURAL                              ..          ..   4073.0                3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..      33.3                 25.3
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEROLD
TOTAL
URBAN                              . .
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOIM
TUTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN
RURAL                              *
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      22.0/d
URBAN                              ..          ..      57.6/d
KURAL                              ..          ..       1.6/d
Li   1980



- 26 -                                        AX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN PDR                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEEA7ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) r
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  13.0        57.0       72.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                  20.0        91.0       92.0                 101.5                     103.0
FEMALE                 5.0        23.0       51.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         10.0       28.0                  38.0                     35.3
MALE                   8.0         16.0      42.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 2.0         4.0       15.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.0        2.0                  11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0         31.0       34.0                  34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                          21.0         20.0       21.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        27.1/e       ..                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0          6.8       6.9                   18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.9         51.7      57.9                 121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.5         13.9      18.2                  37.4                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                     ..         1.0        7.0                  35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           2.4         ..                   3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)       342.2        395.1      452.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    4.0          4.9        5.6                  10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.0         65.0      47.1                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.0         17.0       15.3                 27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.3        .26.2       24.4                  26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 52.0         49.9       46.5                  47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 2.2         2.5        2.7                   5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7         1.8        2.0                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            .. .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                271.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      140.0                 144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      90.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      20.0                   29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   Birth and death rates are crude estimates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with observed
population growth rate; /d percent of population; /e age 10 years and over, for 1973.
May, 1981



ANNE I
- 27-                                                                           pag-e 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL MffICATOtl
Note.:  Although the det  or  roe  fo   sucs  eerlyugd the   . me tsohorirattv   ad rliable, it should els  hetoted that they my  -u  ho ite-
atio-1:y         -a.atie  heceus  ofth  loko   tadtis de ficirtos cod  -otopt. used by diffdeteNt  -ou-tis  I.' Irthgtedote.  Th. data are,to-
thele..s,. usful to desorihe o-der  of megoitade, itdtoate  trre,rd rher...eltare   osteiw  major diffeteouse harwee   oo-trie.
The tseeo        rusae()te  erootygopo   h  suhCer  orumiyed (0)                                   . o tery groiP with somewha-t higher evarage itoe    thec the  -too ,r group
socfo-citcrclfftoires). 1i  the referotot group data thereegs          .r pultio  wegted trh-of  moo. hfe  ui  dicoe   N   hveri   f
majoityof ro ouorree  o a  tr   ho  doca for toil lodooro.  51c   h   oeeeo   otreaet   h   oteomdpns  rteaaiblr    fdt
1.501 00   trhouco                 -,P       d     f-ootu    e   opio   e      ool   ro,ad  oe       oolr                                                                         ttl
..d i. b.t                                                               f C_'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b atbs   o   h'ilo.ttbigeo    rvdlgpiorlyoe
t.idi, end. 1979..d..ri..medIcal bfcsiatdoot. t orso, sfdwufe   err.  ebiot bioffer   dopist  er
dote...  .d.iselota ..dcr Nosdpii-ci ued  -To                                                                                      cbrofaaaic   o  rdsbre
frm   oairtsdvide    bY the  s-e  of- - beds._,~
foool., Ptroolcttoo-.~-n fd-iert (tdo ki-ode   g.lda  fJuy1  16.  90 aod 1979                        ... ifbI:_
dccc.                                                                         Aversos ties of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~178d...h    i onshod  rero_   oar hosodi:p-  ttl.l obs.  sei coal
GN  PRht   IT  (ISutto  -oroco   or)-ttoo  other ro tutulpoputtrot                                    Aboshy       dcelsso    grr..p of tbdivdua:ls sh-           hoedi   ig ontr
stood oooorriee; 1960,7970,9sod 1979 dora.                                           th  hoseod,     o C_.smisticci purposes.b
Poputeti   9 dvitt-t                                                                            Aoreoos   frroerrro -otl   te.04rrl-Aeaeos
Proulatoc to  roc 110 - lurern ppolarir projortoo    riosdot96.e   f  est  pord roo  toi al  ore, co-dirura  oro-i2stef cersti
E fR  ONUlMPTONo PERto  byIT ago or   c   t   ht   utltysdfvilya                   .dwe..Irgs. iraperiveZ.  Iwellirg                                       ff-udeoo -ppmoao   trotr    a
d eer   fr  ertl ytoe6lo0hvechre9ee                                70meolt Aeoit I1o9tta,9rbr,ro  rraddolidsrspotr iy
cod: fepotti_tyte  tfrpo  olrpore.Ajse  fdotor                                                                                by har--irsd
thd   opoemo    ur f2i           tctcrouiorso,sob po  grrrp                      o                  poehuIdtre   fodiitoriagt   f  reAyd                          ootum)o
iv 0ito peat    196d, rod 0 the  1979o dootio  offrl  ryrt   orelo-lc                              idr       .foe      oa,soeatfmae-CmotdC   bve   aodr
Year:il ino loynr r 2o0la0orio  ro hod P-- tt' ylOurot          toaypouetrpoie t                                 etoto. , utroiotl   rrcoaIriig  ototre   o 
NOt huehat toted                                                                                   osoell  rf 11 cc 17Peaso   g;ttspiot   oro    r   eee
tobc00 y90  17   c  197  dot.i~_           l,b  i                                              p--d  Petio,lootil   r  te    rgintltoaor                            amd
erly; 1960. 1970      - ord l 1970t..thdora.                                             Por'1iPi-teauhrrot:tie-ly Dot 1mer . eo Iscodar  - Total stmete steedh
Poyollerioo     -      if _saS_ouu ...rro ti)  - Childro(0     pce)   orig-g   C1prat  ar-id                         it scocdar  lref d-ivide    yo-    ot   fratosi   h
ictior  1960,  i91 itd 1979 Aco._T                                                                Admi.tlitroc  rareig   itrcur       Ltairodlts  ebl  torsd  odtrier
year   .. tec lytoo  o  190-0ib-Ol.f-d  197-79.yp.Inp                                                                  .   .l1__ _
Crud   birth lor  Cyt tomud -       Ac tool ltv  hirih   per thouad  fri-ea                       Ars-  sEot-glose thtegh   esta    alde                  tosoe,h_re   o
pocott "91  19P1        h-s_d979doe.                                                      tltctlvhices
Crdthoh  osCo thooo'   -d douly dethr fer tiliard  of--  td-yclar                                1ni   swvt   rtrhosdorltu)- ditpsof                                  Iaefordi
twooorsl  epodutiveyrredf    f    h'eptete    retccd-poft  e-ec                                        t  itr  deas dforl- rsr gr ear  soy toity b           -omarbl  sinc
ti thyoo;uulyttty                Pvorct.d eriolt 160b170  md  9P.                                 et  ooteeaablihe   lcea-g
Po i  t.dlcortosh.teoa   eoo    ttor  -l hooalrote  ofstepor _                                   tsie,a fet thoseo              -orloio -L th. reowivr  for1 brodcet
.tento   hl-eoo t             (l-A   yor)Iho usr hiort-tetrl   dvtet                               eaerCrueiofo - huaodrorl                        1-Soeroaeoete
oh  nitrtcd oooot to roar 0gw OtOOP.                                              tolof.'. -l.-    ... dtooo  "doily -.- gere1 icer -towpepr"  defre  as- a  -eridica
_Lst-h~~~d - Th- Y-   h-   l.tchiooioo deytpdprimaily_o P'trdio   georr  tw.It  mtoese
fol Ol9901700tob  "diy   if it s7Pponr  ow last; fourptrdss   wee.A.l    -.
Irdc o   yo  Produttio   retCot (16971lolkl -. Irdo  ofprt_totr                                lsrOsolAtoee   e    oiaprder-grd0   h   obro
tOitovu960 oveag  prdor  pro..gi..IIb,17,  o   99dr.                                             odLbrPrt   trso                   - fotmlr -l aTtire per          -. ialntldmg
Per uros   St..l of Pul -ie   lo hroe - of  -1 yecrot-a),-Coue   rmsie   oeor  utelepsdy ho  etdio    oewr                                                tdce    t.
6oryeuvlto  of wet fodaple    viol   touryprt  iscvrio   potluioo   foloa.Ifwrosi   aiu   wee                                                                                  r
9s7r.Aalbl   oy  e   tOre    eettpedolr   aot  ls                                         o   etmie-90   IOcd 1979 dart.-pbin
900t.Piitie  used~ it  edpotmig  modloc  Cvdirrhtiof  .t. .eqie-                                doltlur fetem)-loorfrtbilarnig                            fee try   oroo  sad ,.
ters  -ertich   dt   fl1oe        9ophs70ia    Od   o   oe               oc-foIga p7crttoe                                Id toa  l eter;  90  197  cad 17   aa
here 6d orl   19601-61  190,  o  1977    o                                                90sA17 os
rroupply of food dcc     - Am Bet suply- offe Iah deftoe ..d o f shv.ic-                  Ccivtyroe  to   eptdO   otlhae-o   eml   so    rsa
o1970t  o  6  gam   otrr19p79  iepe  dy  rd00grm   o  oi          -l td190,191.mo  179dos,meo  reboede    11.0' pertiipolw   ae
PuP1-irepeer   fsotI   ris  hudh   cnlpotr                            hetNr-rfero    o-e 1960urwooc of the,h                               popildmit,ac   -o ietm d.
C od i.th prrl  as or loveag  for AtheI edt P prooo- hy. PhIf io te Tir                         fotoomt  -errderyifoi       i    o   eueor  o                  5rd  Icdto
Pond"i Food ooty 1961,-61, 190ud1977d dora.                                                      to  rh   ir   laorfote.
Chl (oe1-d-   Outlirtte(evtoetd  lcoal-wcha_ot  heroo It                                        Peos too of rlvte  -t'm (hoer to- or              Alodlid   -f.. tti-ed  fytittee
agrutooyl-Ayrats,teohildto    b lohifg d rought  omootdevllpugou-b-erer.                                      -1eo  prtevperb           0pooe,idcraidotn
trit  da --dti deie -Po    Ift   i r h:c;10,17  cd17.rc                                         of .oo.dhlds.
Fotl birth; 1961  197  cu  197  drt.                                                                sd a97ldhe  rterre9d  wih rtoOdetetoui_t
loPe biltht-l-1 tot      - (rot  t ...sod  -i. bonduhf -i 1f.lofPo... ider Ott yea                Rs-i-ottd       p uolte Peerr  1or-- lee   flbpt et)     reoodrua
of age per  toteord  liv   btrthe.                                               Aooloto povety iertme  c"rl is rho  toton levl helen thOh s mi_ime
Aetee toichogtr(coc  ofcoooeuo   total    lher rod rural - tot-Y                                                                    ..n.t.i-
f...ourfirorstodd P       o-  o    ttmr  ha   0    aer   rmr  es   a  hadIrbo  wdith  idfso  Per hIt. he ot of  iro    aorsom
reatenleuoomooud  Clrtho  th..swfoo    ehr  of the " tereol                                  en   ue     treto   oplte    oru                    ud)  the ore "aslt
do rot ho yr to oteudadloproptrtittooe  pert of thI'da  it fte-dethitogy thel~in d..i
foetip' adii. --   tI                                 -       .                                                                                         di it   .
Otorseroytoroca          h  li   dibl. Cr d oor   dfouaie-oc ,orbo.medsgo-                           -
brisrleoos                                                                                                                                       toy  1901gt,16-5,17,.d199d  tlIb_    .-  t~   ..d)-E.ti.l  j-p. ,jji
Peuoio   o  Pyil_    otlrotd_do    ptuh_o  poot__u0  tysi
tir    uliidfe  ardot        oulo  uttur -mirt.datel.
PotloiorottY     i foPa     dtt-    pprloior      il.btdt  ip r--e of , p  -ctit_
'Yeudeolgouol           uro,prubl IYueoodaoOto                                                                                         D.ursec.                           -



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1980
US$ mln
GNP at market prices                               853         100
Gross Domestic Investment                          249          29
Gross National Savings                            -17           -2
Export of goods and NFS                             96          11       Annual Rate of Growth (%)
Imports of goods and NFS                          696           81            (constant prices)
1974/79
GDP at factor cost                                 570         100                    6
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries                         74           13                    0
Industry                                        81          14                     9
Construction                                    78           13                  23
Transport                                       87          15                   12
Government Services                            140          23                     7
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                             Budget
Estimates
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)                      1974/75       19751/        1976        1977          1978        1979        1980
Total receipts _/                               23.6         16.9           32.1        43.4         56.0         68.0       107.2
Current expenditures                            27.6        25.6            39.2        47.4         61.4         76.2        96.0
Current deficit                                 -4.0        -8.7            -7.1        -4.0         -5.4         -8.2        11.2
Development expenditures                        19.6        18.9            39.2        57.3         59.7         52.0        74.2
Overall deficit                                -23.6       -27.6           -46.3       -61.3        -65.1       -60.2        -63.0
Borrowing from Banking System                   10.4        12.5            15.6        18.5         13.2        27.6         19.0
External Financing                              13.2        15.1            30.7        42.8         51.9         32.6        44.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1974         1975             1976       1977         1978        1979         1980
Y.D. million, end period
Money and quasi-money                           55          67              98         140          168         217          256
Bank credit to Government                       24          37              62          72           87          110         127
Bank credit to non-Government Sector3/          19          24              31          49           59           61          98
Increase in x
Consumer prices                                 24          12               4           5            6           10          11
1/    The fiscal year was April 1 - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April 1 - December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
2/    Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
3/    Mostly public sector agencies.



ANNEX I
- 29 -                     Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Ub$ million)  1974         1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Exports  l                                8        8      26       24       17      20       38
Imports 1/                            -190      -178   -268    -365    -386    -411    -650
Trade Deficit                         -182      -170   -242    -341    -369    -391    -612
Non-tactor Services, net                22        14      20       10       17      14       14
Factor bervices, net                    48        18      43       76     111      142      176
Labor Income                       (41)      (15)   (37)    (69)   (103)   (131)   (146)
Investment Income                   (7)       (3)    (6)      (7)      (8)    (11)    (30)
Current Account Deficit               -112      -138   -179    -255    -241    -235    -421
Transfers                                1        52    125       174     191      205      284
Official                               1        10      46      55       36       23       83
Private 2/                            --        42      79     119      155      182     201
Official h and Lt Capital, net          65        31      73       70      94       59       76
Gross Disbursements                (65)      (32)   (75)    (71)    (95)    (64)    (86)
Repayments                          (0)      (-1)   (-2)    (-1)    (-1)    (-5)   (-10)
Other Capital (mncl. E & 0)             38        42       4       29      45       -8       86
Changes in Official Reserves
increase)                      8        13    -27      -18      -89      -22      -24
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)   67           54      81       99     188      210      234
MERCHANDIbE EXPORTb                                        Average 1978-79
US$ Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                                   9         47
Agricultural Products                                    8         42
Other                                                    2          11
19        100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1980)                            USt Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                           1,241
ot which:  Disbursed                                       499
Debt Service Payments in 1980                                 15
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods
ana bervices)                                                4.4 Percent
1/ Net of re-exports.
2/ Workers' remittances.
EM1DD
March 1, 1982



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
$ Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                               (less cancellations)
No.          Year    Borrower        Purpose                       IDA      Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                       6.7
494-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Education I                    5.4            0.2
560-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Highways II                   15.5            0.7
584-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2               0.9
615-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0              0.9
768-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj        5.2             2.8
829-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Power I                        5.0            1.3
865-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Education II                  4.0             3.5
932-  YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                 10.0             6.8
1038- YDR       1980      PDRY       Aden Water Supply            13.2           11.9
1050- YDR       1980      PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0               7.3
1144- YDR       1981      PDRY       Highways III                 12.5           12.5
1145- YDR       1981      PDRY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.    8.01/             8.0
1159- YDR       1981      PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply       3.5            3.5
Total                                 108.2 2/         60.30
of which has been repaid                  .02
Total now held by IDA                 108.183/
Total undisbursed                                     60.30
1/    Not yet effective.
2/    Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under
Credits 560 and 1038. In addition a $6 million equivalent Credit
for a Third Education Project was approved by the Executive Directors
on April 1, 1982 and signed on May 25, 1982.
3/    Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
CR. No. 494-YDR       Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is satisfactory although about two years behind
appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit
effective and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayed construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions were completed in mid 1981. The credit is now fully disbursed
and closed.
CR. No. 560-YDR       Second Highway Project:  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development. Since international competitive bidding for the
construction element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements
were made for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit
which is assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the
project area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of
domestic skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equipment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 80 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 67 per-
cent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of rock
that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works needed
because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan roads. Consultants
(Sotechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by December 1982. The credit would be
closed June 30, 1982 when 90 percent of the works are expected to be completed.
CR. No. 584-YDR       Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit of
September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date; February 3,
1976; Closing Date: March 1, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabili-
tation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical
assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been received
and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial delay in
the rehabilitation of the slipway. A cost accountant and a marine engineer
have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase of
floating craft and IDA agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port. This equipment has been delivered
and the project is substantially completed. The final withdrawal application
is being processed.
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date; September 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completed and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication of irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years. The project was extended for one
year in July 1981. High cost of labor, inefficient tractor services, market-
ing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricultural produce have been
impediments to increased production. Government has recently taken steps to
improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy, and a consultant's study
(financed under Credit No. 768- YDR/Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project) on agri-
cultural prices, taxation and subsidy has been completed and is under dis-
cussion with a view to improving these policies. The increased availability



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
of the agricultural machinery purchased under the project and improvement in
pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural produce would assist in
achieving the project's objectives.
CR. No. 768-YDR        Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  US$5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. A new expatriate project manager
has been appointed. All other technical assistance staff are already on
post. A water management study and an agricultural prices, taxation and
subsidy policy study has been completed. Construction of a village water
supply scheme is well advanced and survey work for feeder roads was started.
The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved its loan of $6.1
million in February 1980. With a total area of 7,000 ha, the project has
36,000 principal beneficiaries, while the water supply scheme would benefit
about 6,000 persons.
CR. No. 829-YDR        Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying irrigation water pumping in the Wadi through
the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction of about
1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks. Institution-
building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance comprising
training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants' services
for a tariff study. The contract for equipment and materials has been awarded
and the first 4 MW unit has been commissioned in March 1982. The tariff study
is completed and the Government increased tariffs by an average 39 percent
between September 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1985.
CR. No. 865-YDR         Education II Project:  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in establishing three voca-
tional training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Fellowships, financed from bilateral funds have been
completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in Mukalla started in June
1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate due to delays in designs
and tender, and is now expected to be completed in Summer 1982. With IDA's



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
approval, two existing schools are being converted into agricultural and
industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs. The redesign work
caused a delay of approximately 15 months. These conversions should be com-
pleted by mid-1983. Bids have been awarded on about 80 percent of the furni-
ture and equipment. Satisfactory curricula have been developed. Because of
the delays to this project, the Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1984.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist with cold store operations and export
marketing; and a national study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a
possible future IDA-financed project. The project was delayed two years
because of the difficulty in finding cofinanciers. This has resulted in a
cost overrun of about $11.5 million, which is being financed by the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development. The contract for the construction of the
port and related shore facilities has been awarded and construction has begun.
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning
of the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration Depart-
ment's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and (b)
technical assistance to PED for project management services, data evaluation
to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training of PED's
staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently attractive
to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. The seismic survey is
underway and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1144 YDR      Third Highways Project:  $12.5 million Credit of July 27,
1981; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is financing the construction of a two-lane paved road
(92 km) from Naqabah to Nisab in the presently isolated Shabwah Governorate.
This road is expected to stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity of
these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY's road construction capabilities
(i) through about 130 manmonths of consultants assistance to the Ministry of
Construction (MOC) for improvement of project preparation capabilities,
management, and operations of the MOC's construction units, including the
independent construction unit (ICU) established under the project and (ii)
through training of MOC and ICU staff including about 90 manmonths of long
and short-term overseas fellowships. The IDA credit became effective concur-
rently with the loans from the two cofinanciers, the Kuwait Fund and the OPEC
Fund. The management team of consultants have mobilized, consultants have
been appointed to provide technical and construction supervision assistance
to the Ministry of Construction, and bid evaluations for equipment for the
project unit are complete and contracts with suppliers have been signed.
Construction is expected to begin in May, 1982 as scheduled.
CR. No. 1145-YDR      Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project: $8 million
Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha. of mixed spate (flood) and well irrigated lands in
the Beihan subgovernorate by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan
and Wadi Ain.  It would establish a program of hydrometeorological observa-
tions in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its water resources and ensur-
ing their optimal utilization. In addition, it would improve access between
agricultural and population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing feeder
roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by increasing produc-
tion of fruits, vegetables and meat. Initial implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, a project manager has been appointed and recruitment of other
key staff is under way, and bid documents for staff housing are under prepara-
tion. A cofinancing loan agreement for $6 million equivalent has been signed
with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
CR. No. 1159-YDR      Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project:  $3.5
million Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will rehabilitate the existing water supply system of Al
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and prepare detailed plans of new
water production facilities for this city. It provides for an immediate
increase in water production to meet water demands up to 1985 and for the
expansion of the water distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla.  The project also provides for the formulation and implementation of
a health education program designed to encourage the population in Al Mukalla
to improve health practices and sanitary conditions. It further includes:
hydrogeological studies needed for the design of the water production facili-
ties; an urban growth study to forecast the pace of urbanization in the Al
Mukalla area and to plan for the expansion of basic urban services in this
area. A total of 122 manmonths of consulting services is provided. The
project would provide substantial health and environmental benefits to the
population of Al Mukalla. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1222-YDR      Third Education Project:  $6.0 million Credit of May 25,
1982; Effectiveness Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project will (a) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by provid-
ing buildings and equipment for the training of skilled workers and techni-
cians and by improving the methods and data base available to manpower
planners; (b) upgrade the skills and knowledge of existing poorly qualified
teachers and increase the output of new primary teachers; and (c) improve the
quality of school buildings by establishing school building maintenance units
in two regional education directorates and by determining urgent school
furniture and equipment needs. The project will also help to strengthen both
male and female training and primary education in remote areas. Specifically,
the credit is financing construction, equipment and furniture for (i) a com-
mercial technical institute at Aden (750 places); (ii) an agricultural tech-
nical institute at Saber (450 places); (iii) an in-service teacher upgrading
center at Aden (630 places), and (iv) a regional primary teacher training
institute at Seiyun (590 places). Two fully-equipped mobile building main-
tenance units and technical assistance for two studies are also being financed
by the credit. Technical assistance relating to the above project items is
being financed by the Government through bilateral sources under ongoing
programs. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first presented to IDA:                September 1979
(b) Time taken by PDRY to prepare
the project:                                6 months (April-September 1981)
(c) Agency which prepared the project:            Ministry of Fish Wealth (MFW)
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:                September 1981
(e) Completion of negotiations:                   May 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                By November 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the effectiveness of the IFAD loan and the EEC Special Action
credit (para. 52);
(b)  the appointment by IFAD of IDA as Cooperating Institution to
administer the IFAD loan (para. 52); and
(c)  the clearance of the construction site for the FMDC (para. 40).
2.  Other Conditions.  The Borrower has agreed to:
(a) clear the shipwrecks around Labor Island by May 31, 1984 prior to
start of construction (para. 40);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) ensure that adequate financial assistance and other incentives would
be offered to students to attract adequate numbers of qualified
applicants (para. 45(a));
(c) apply the cost recovery scheme to the four participating cooperatives
and that any agreement IDA reaches with the Government with respect
to future interest rate adjustments would be applied to sub-loans
made under this project as well (para. 53);
(d) establish by December 1, 1982 and thereafter maintain a Project
Implementation Unit with an organization, staff and terms of
reference which are satisfactory to IDA, and to appoint a project
manager and an accountant whose qualifications, experience and terms
of employment are satisfactory to IDA (para. 56);
(e) undertake a tracer study for analysis of job placements of FMDC
graduates (para. 57); and
(f) appoint a qualified Yemeni as FMDC's director by September 30,
1984, and a registrar and two deputy directors, all with suitable
qualifications and experience by January 31, 1985 (para. 57).



I BR D 16158
44   45'4t                                  47~                   48-                    49'                   sao                     51'.                  I20                    5B- '  >71osann    a  IRA    '            JANUARY 1982
-.6                _j-                   A9'-R' 'I S           NB *.<!5 -< art WellX  I R A N
_. -                                            O M   A  N         EGYP5 M   A                             ,' EIP7,
S  A    U    D  I                   _                                                          \                                s -,                         CA: IlAlt. .Aj
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN                                             A  R  A   B  I A                                                                            -SAUD   ARAB A 
THIRD FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                     i                                                                                                  18 5UDAN                          ECFE-
./   __                ,'                   ./g~~~~~~~~~~~~A-naw        Shlha,\.. \'jE;  Fat 'Ag
Fishernes Manpower Development Center                                                           .       _._4
P Broject VI ages
A     Fisheries Extension Units                                                                                                                                                                                         E TH' .PA Ha *
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~Thamud
sphalted roads                                                                       / , '
17C --------- Oth          r     r - rd ks , t                                                                                    .                                                                                                                      Won/nkh  asb  pse/r
O   Towns                                                                                                                                                                                                          a.              7' -. --Psttbhe osana,a r/nriteradn,n
Nat onal cpital                                    c..                                                             /                                                                                                 .     f        =       l no -r'nr/t,I S, aksfLe'
275u BEahymetnr contours n meters                                                                                                                                                                               N/ .            ;        / daoorlr B r h  snOhne>
ff~~~~~ or hills    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ,Zamak                                                                                                                                                   8-k nOColIdn h It,O 110180IW
a                                                                                                                      GheIda9'~~~~~~~~------  --    --- ----
Governorche bou,darles                             i--                                                                                                                              Al                                               ncrnah  .f_ _  bnrP-Gheidanones
- -nternatona bonClsi                                              /     AAr.           "        ~        ~                ! /4ffzr                           ----~'                EUtyi               /    .       .                  :             ,'  
bounoories  ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     'C`-                                0/l4I/4       I"7
fln/COT 0j0DoeCs/n/es                                       /                               ' Abrd  ,Mrr-, A Ha/OIr                          ---- C  ------                       M.
'1C        I                                                               Tar,m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 
-I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ASnabmah                                                                                    Say/hut .va                   /                                                1               /7i
/   /   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.yl'Shbah                                                 '                 -, _4...;_Xiy;>(-1
Y E M E N  A R A B                                                                                                                                                      -' 
R   E   P  U   B   L  I C iOahn; <SIk; ;/    
-14;                                                                                                  N.,h r -,  S  a   ft A t_   -SIH    -   f9. -                        -             f . \ j.XEli%\ ia.,, ,Q,,'
i  La .1 or  !yeh ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     O/Ib/ha/        '1                                             {/~
'  Dhaic                                       Ab   ndasoo    Monaytash               '              Burr. n    / -                                    0                              0   /
E K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W  0  ~~S z . '-   /      ;           0)                                    >, -t'    0 Al MUf:"b  .  Ridem  Ga a   P' Al   Ar/ 'i'0              '                          /_   ~'0   / ">     t      K        (        :5        :P      V   
/JIE9 r               S >ef <                       .          lot~~ ~~ <_ ' Na Q 35 >. z-  /  S   '            f >, 5 3.  0  0-,f) 1, J   '                                           . I
~~                                                             /           0   2,0  50  ~~~~~             150  175  ~~~~O               ~                                 (cTf,A,5kd   ~~~~~ C5elnn5l                              -12
4&                                                          40~~~~~~~~ 5    0 /    /53/5



I



__________________________                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  15175R
~~  ;~~ ~~J    S                                                                                                                                                                                                              AUGUST  1981
TIJREPY-                                 ~                            PEOPLE'S DEMAOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
RAA RuP                    I N 20' IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS  BY SECTOR                                                                                                                                                                       2'
I0Ti5~1A0                                                      P ROJ hcTu 
1 *~~   ARABIA  ~ ~       ~          ~               Petroleum  ~~Exploration  Assisronc
SUL)AN                 <~A                                                         Edoc-lio-
7~~pG.oiA,O0     rf  EA                                      H ghecy,
*   Water 5ippl
o  Port Deo- op.-et
A      r 
f,i           ~PIROJECT                     YLAR aAPP OVFD
HIGHWAYS 1                        1971
VISRERIES  1973                   1                                                                                                                            A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ~dL ~GHAYDAH-  A
lA~~~             EDUCA~~~~TION 1                   19754
HIGHWAYS U1                       1975                                                                                                                            _                         sOto
ADENs PORT REHABILITATION         0976                        t                                                                                                                        P  -ET.
WADI HADRAMOUT AGRICULTURE        1076                                                                                                            %
WADI TURAN AGRICULTURE            707
VVADI HADRAMOOT POWER             1979 
EDUCATION El                      1979          s,   nHt.0~EXSIGPAUE
FISHERIES EH                          10709                                                       . 
3    PETROLEAM DEVELOPMENT             1980   Box                           Ge   ,~;o,,                                                                                                      Goon,orwoot  Cop tlIs
ASS ISTAN C E                                          9. P          .                                            Ni                                                                   NioaCpil
AG3ES W VATE R DAUPP LY           1989     -.1 A-oZor'JRI                                                                  N'n6As   ShiEr
HIGHVIYI l1981                                                                                                                                                                  Po5S 4  4
GRICULTURE                 1901                                    I                                         ,          LIAL               IE SONMrstPR,-  -jWt~
CIMUAL'LAWATER SUPPLY               1981                                                                            ,o                                                                      ieran Wdi
EN INEERING                                        i      5-                                                                                            200                            P-irory Roads
00                                                                                     -    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;o                                                                   Sexon,d-y Roodo
-   - Goe-noroal B.-oo-ais
5               ~~~~~~100               200
N119AR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 El  
T                                                                                                                                                                                             0000 O,46.,o0, 0000,o,0 7



