i  1,s CREDIT NUMBER 1274 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Fisheries Developmeu    Project)
between
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DVELopmENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    A,-J3 v*                     1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1274 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   Av3&                       , 1982, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Borrower has also requested the Association, as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established with
funds contributed by the Member States of the European Economic
Community, to provide additional assistance towards the financing
of the Project from the resources of the Special Action Account
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Association as Administrator of the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the Member States
of the European Economic Community (hereinafter called the
Special Action Credit Agreement), the said Administrator is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about three million four hundred thousand
dollars f$3,400,000) (hereinafter called the Special Action
Credit);
(C) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
four million four hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 4,450,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(D) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Cooper-
ating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Association
is prepared to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Fund Loan Account" men   the loan account established
under the Fund Loan 'igreemient;
(b)  "MFW"  veans   the  Ministry  of  Fish  Wealth  of   the
Borrower;
(c) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be
established within MFW pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02
of this Agreement; and
(d)  "Project   Preparation  Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 11, 1982 and June 1,
1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrow-
er, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million four hundred thousand SpF-cial Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of each date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on.   The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay tne principal amount
of the Cre-it in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1992, and ending June 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unlted States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the ne-essary documentation as hereinafter provided, shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall ocaer-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c)   Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled


﻿-5-
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.05. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Fund Loan Account or the Credit Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III hereof shall continue to apply mutatis
mutandis until the full amount credited or to be credited to such
Account shall have been withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.06. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the
Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Association that any such special commitment shall,
once it has bE!en notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation
on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be


﻿-6-
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MFW with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate  administrative,   financial  and   engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 4.02. In order to facilitate the proper carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall, by December 1, 1982:
(a) establish    and  thereafter   maintain   the  PIU   with
organization, staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; and
(b)   appoint to PIU a Project Manager and an accountant
whose qualifications, experience and terms of employment shall be
saticfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. In order to assist the Borrower in: (i) the
establishment and operation of the training programs under Part A
of the Project; (ii) the administration of the Center to be
established under Part A of the Project; (iii) the supervision of
the construction of the Project; and (iv) the carrying out of
the fisheries village development program under Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ training, management, account-
ing and engineering consultants and experts whose selection
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
s-ecifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and
the Fund's representatives to visft the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-8-
and the Association, the BQrrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Assotliation and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishmment of
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account and the Fund Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b)   The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account and the Fund Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Association's and
the Fund's representatives to examine such records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund, as


﻿-9-
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Fund Loan withdrawn from the Credit Account
and the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.02. In order to ensure the proper operation of the
fisheries manpower development center to be established under
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)  appoint to the said center by September 30, 1984, a
Director whose qualifications, experience and terms of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, and by January 31,
1985, two Deputy Directors and a Registrar with suitable qualifi-
cations and experience;
(b)  provide prospective candidates for formal pre-service
training at the said center with such financial and other incen-
tives as shall be appropriate to attract adequate numbers of
qualified candidates for such training; and
(c)  develop prior to the graduation of the first group of
students in formal in-service training under Part A of the
Project, and on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, and thereafter apply, an appropriate tracer system to
the graduates of the said center to monitor and analyze their job
placement and performance over a period of five years following
their graduation.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the facilities,
including equipment and vehicles, under Part B (1) of the Project
shall be made available to the concerned fisheries cooperatives
under arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, providing,
inter alia, for the repayment to the Borrower by said coopera-
tives, through pre-authorized monthly deductions from the cooper-
atives' accounts with the National Bank of Yemen, of the equiva-


﻿- 10 -
lent of the cost to the Borrower of the facilities, including
equipment and vehicles, so procured and made available over a
period of ten years and with interest at the rate of 5-1/2% per
annum, or at such other rate as the Borrower and the Association
may agree after reviewing the prevailing lending conditions
within the Borrower's territory.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that the facilities, including the buildings, equip-
ment, vehicles, vessels and furniture, provided under the Project
be operated and maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof be made, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall clear, not later than May
31, 1984, the sea immediately surrounding Labor Island of all
shipwrecks and other debris.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit or the Fund Loan made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)  Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan Agreement pursuant to
the Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund has appointed
the Association as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund
Loan on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)   ie Borrower shall have cleared the construction site
for the FMDC located on Labor Island; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The date NVo4re-LQ ( Itlt24 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
V of this Agreement and Section 6.02 of this Agreement       shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit


﻿- 12 -
Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified
in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund
Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditionts,
the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to
remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of order-
ly settlement of matters of mutual interest to thie parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution
under the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of
this Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund
Loan, forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the case
described in the foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall
apply only to the responsibilities of the Association as such
Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1193
Tawahi, Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                          Telex:
TAKHTEET                           289 TAKHTEET AD
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By)/     A1U        2AL              1\A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By.       Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount         Amount                     % of
of the         of the        % of       Expendi-
Credit       Fund Loan      Expendi-      tures
Allocated       Allocated     tures to      to be
(Expressed     (Expressed    be Financed  Financed
Cate-          in SDR         in SDR      under the   under the
gory        Equivalent)     Equivalent)    Credit     Fund Loan
For Part
A of the
Project:
(1) Civil      1,330,000    1,330,000     25%         25%
works
(2) Equip-         -          700,000      -          100% of for-
ment,                                            eign expendi-
furni-                                          tures and
ture,                                            100% of local
mater-                                           expenditures
ials                                             (ex-factory)
and
vehi-
cles
(3) Vessels        -          310,000      -          100% of for-
eign expen-
ditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)


﻿- 15 -
Amount         Amount                        % of
of the         of the        % of          Expendi-
Credit       Fund Loan      Expendi-        tures
Allocated      Allocated       tures to       to be
(Expressed     (Expressed    be Financed    Financed
Cate-         in SDR          in SDR       under the    under the
gory        Equivalent)    Equivalent)      Credit      Fund Loan
(4) Teacher      450,000        450,000   50% of for-   50% of
train-                              eign expendi- foreign
ing                                  tures         expendi-
tures
(5) Consul-      680,000       740,000   48% of         52% of
tants'                               foreign       foreign
services                            expendi-       expendi-
tures         tures
(6)  Incre-      220,000       220,000    30%           30%
mental
operat-
ing
costs
(7) Refrig-      320,000          -       100% of           -
eration                             foreign
equip-                              expendi-
ment                                 tures
For Part
B of the
Project:
(8) Equip-     1,440,000        -         100% of           -
ment                                 foreign ex-
and                                 penditures
vehicles                            and 100% of
local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory)
(9) Consul-      260,000     300,000     46% of          54% of
tants'                              foreign         foreign
services                            expendi-        expendi-
tures          tures


﻿- 16 -
Amount         Amount                        % of
of the         of the        % of          Expendi-
Credit       Fund Loan      Expendi-        tures
Allocated      Allocated       tures to       to be
(Expressed     (Expressed    be Financed     Financed
Cate-         in SDR         in SDR        under the    under the
gory        Equivalent)    Equivalent)      Credit      Fund Loan
(10) Refund-     110,000        -        Amount due         -
ing of
Project
Prepara-
tion
Advance
(11) Unallo-     590,000     400,000
cated
TOTAL     5,400,000     4,450,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term   "incremental operating costs" means all
additional operation, administration, overhead and adequate
maintenance and related expenses required annually for the
Fisheries Manpower Development Center for the first two years of
its operation.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-


﻿- 17 -
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
decreases or increases, the Assoc!ation may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policies of the AsSociation and the Fund.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the
Fund Loan Agreement, whichever shall be the later.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit o.
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in tFe
table in paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) correspondingly
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under   such  Category  may   continue  until   all   expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6. -If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this *7reement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement or of
the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrow-
er, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist the Borrower in the development of
its fisheries sector and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Fisheries Manpower Development Center
The construction and equipping of a fisheries manpower
development center (the Center) on Labor Island in the Port of
Aden for the purpose of providing: (i) formal pre-service train-
ing for certificated candidates in navigation and commercial
fishing, marine engineering and fish handling, processing and
distribution; (ii) in-service training for MFW staff and fisher-
ies cooperatives' staff in fish handling, collection and distri-
bution and in equipment operation and maintenance; and (iii)
extension services for the instruction of fishermen and admini-
strators of fisheries cooperatives in fish handling techniques
and boat and engine repair and maintenance. This Part comprises:
(1) Construction of about 5,100 m    and renovation of about
1,000 ag of building facilities for use as general and
laboratory and demonstration classrooms, an administra-
tion complex, a student center, dormitories and staff
housing.
(2) Construction of a fish landing platform connected to a
58 m causeway, a captain's platform and training mast
and outdoor facilities, including assembly and storage
area, recreational fields and parking space.
(3) Provision of equipment, furniture and materials, a
library and two training vessels for the purpose of the
training and extension activities of the Center.
(4) Development and implementation of appropriate policies
and procedures for the purpose of the extension activi-
ties of the Center.
(5) Implementation of a staffing program to employ suitable
administrative, extension and teaching staff in ade-
quate numoers to ensure the proper operation of the
Center.


﻿- 19 -
(6) Development and implementation of training programs to
ensure the availability of qualified teaching and
extension staff for the proper operation of the Center,
including the provision of: (a) about 32 man-years of
overseas training for the Center's teaching staff; and
(b) intensive in-service training of the Center's
extension workers.
(7) Development and    application  of   detailed  curricula,
syllabi and timetable for the training activities under
the Project, including a study on the training capabi-
lities for refrigeration technicians.
(8) Provision of refrigeration equipment based on the study
referred to in Part A (7) above.
Part B:   Fisheries Village Development
(1) The carrying out of a program to assist the four fish-
eries cooperatives of the villages of Ras Al Ara, Bi'r
'Ali, Shuqra, Fukum and Ras Imran in increasing their
fish production through:
(a) the provision of a fully equipped fish receiving
facility, an ice plant with storage capacity, a
chill room and insulated trucks for each of the
four fisheries cooperatives referred to above; and
(b)  (i) the construction of a causeway with a landing
platform and 700 m approach road in the village of
Ras Imran, (ii) the provision of a 45 m landing
jetty and an independent fresh water supply system
for the village of Shuqra, and (iii) the construc-
tion of a 130 m causeway and landing platform with
fish off-loading area to connect the ice plant
with the cold store in the village of bi'r 'Ali.
(2) Development and application of suitable: (a) operation-
al guidelines to promote the development of the fisher-
ies cooperatives into independently managed viable
commercial enterprises; and (b) policies and procedures
for the proper operation and maintenance by the fisher-
ies cooperatives of the facilities, including equipment
and vehicles, provided under Part B (1) above.


﻿- 20 -
Part C:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation
system designed to enable MFW to obtain and analyze on a current
basis all relevant information required for the proper evaluation
of the progress of the Project and the effectiveness of the
training and extension activities under Part A of the Project and
the benefits resulting to the fisheries cooperatives under Part B
of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be includ-
ed.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A:   bids offering goods manufactured in the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to tlc bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 23 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther compa-ison only, an amount equal to:      (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the training vessels and vehicles may be
procured through limited international tendering after obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers from three different
countries who are eligible to compete for the supply of such
goods in accordance with the Guidelines. Limited international
tendering shall be carried out in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines
except that no notification or advertisement of the invitation to
bid will be required.
2.   Contracts for (i) equipment and furniture estimated to
cost less than $1,000 equivalent each, and (ii) items of a
specialized nature, may be procured on terms and conditions and
according to procedures which are satisfactory to the Association
and consistent with the provisions of Part B of the Guidelines.
Contracts so awarded shall not exceed in the aggregate $50,000
equivalent.
D. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿- 24 -
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the consultants referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together wi-h
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 25 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          -day of
1 9 8                               V
FOR SECRETARY


