      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                       Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



                                                                                                                           Report Number : ICRR0020193


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                          Project Name
 P088032                                             AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP

 Country                                             Practice Area(Lead)                                    Additional Financing
 Argentina                                           Water                                                  P114081,P114081



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                           Closing Date (Original)                                           Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-72680,IBRD-79470                                      31-Jul-2009                                                                   333,670,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                         Closing Date (Actual)
  07-Dec-2004                                                30-May-2015

                                                                   IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                          Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                250,000,000.00                                                                      0.00

  Revised Commitment                                                 249,761,347.47                                                                      0.00

  Actual                                                             249,761,347.47                                                                      0.00




 Sector(s)
 Wastewater Treatment and Disposal(30%):Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(28%):Urban Transport(27%):Sub-national
 government administration(10%):Flood protection(5%)

 Theme(s)
 Urban services and housing for the poor(29%):City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery(29%):Public expenditure, financial management
 and procurement(14%):Infrastructure services for private sector development(14%):Administrative and civil service reform(14%)

 Prepared by                            Reviewed by                            ICR Review Coordinator                 Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                    Victoria Alexeeva                      Christopher David Nelson               IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Loan Agreement (page 24), the project objectives are as follows:

       • To enhance the provision of water and sewerage services for the benefit of low-income people, in particular for those people living in highly
       vulnerable areas;
       • To improve high priority road segments of the Borrower's road network;
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



        • To mitigate urban flooding; and
        • To support the reactivation of the Borrower's economy and strengthen its regional competitiveness.



     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 11 and Annex 3) does not explicitly state the project's objectives; rather, it reports the overall
     purpose of the Program "to improve the provision of infrastructure services in the Province within a framework of fiscal responsibility as a
     means of supporting the return to a sustainable path of economic growth, to alleviate poverty, and increase social equity" and the
     prioritization of a set of interventions specifically aimed to:

        • Develop a multi-year public expenditure program, in line with the priorities of the Province, to implement the infrastructure Program following
        sound fiscal policies to ensure convergence towards a long-term sustainable fiscal framework;
        • Improve and maintain high priority segments of the paved road network to support the reactivation of the provincial economy and strengthen
        regional competitiveness; and
        • Enhance water and sewerage services to low-income people living in highly vulnerable areas and to mitigate urban flooding.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     10-Jun-2010


c.   Components
     1. Provincial Roads (Appraisal: US$ 136.2 million; Appraisal + AF: US$ 195.26 million; Actual: US$ 208.27 million): This component aimed
     to rehabilitate high priority segments of the road network and implement a sustained and cost-efficient road maintenance program.
     Activities included: rehabilitation of 53 urban road segments; rehabilitation of selected primary road segments that connect to the peri-
     urban Conurbano area and dock area; widening of nine road segments to remove bottlenecks; and development of a routine maintenance
     program which would be financed through the provincial budget.
     2. Water and Sewerage (Appraisal: US$ 66.1 million; Appraisal + AF: US$ million 93.87 million; Actual: US$ 107.72 million): This
     component aimed to increase coverage of water and sewerage services particularly to low-income households. Activities included
     installation of piped water and secondary sewerage connections between households and existing primary networks. Services were to be
     delivered by private or municipal water/sewerage operators. The activities were to largely implemented in the Conurbano area due to the
     dense pockets of low-income households, as well as high vulnerability to negative health and/or environmental impacts.
     3. Drainage (Appraisal: US$ 14.3 million; Appraisal + AF: US$ 21.33 million; Actual: US$ 7.92 million): This component aimed to reduce
     the high costs (economic, financial, environmental and social) associated with urban flooding, which particularly affect the poor. Activities
     included: expansion of the drainage infrastructure in five areas; and development of non-structural actions such as regulations for land
     zoning, environmental protection, and institutional strengthening.
     4. Technical Assistance (Appraisal: US$ 14.8 million; Appraisal + AF: US$ 4.29 million; Actual: US$ 3.65 million): This component aimed
     to develop institutional capacity of the implementing agencies (Department of Roads of the Province of Buenos Aires (DVBA), Provincial
     Department of Water and Sewerage (DIPAC), Provincial Department of Sanitation and Hydraulic Works (DIPSOH)). There was also a
     sub-component for competitiveness and job generation aimed at developing a strategic framework for provincial development, including
     defining priorities for employment generation and infrastructure.

     Additional Financing

        • The roads component was scaled up to increase the kilometers of roads rehabilitated.
        • The water/sanitation and drainage components received financing to cover the financing gap for the originally planned activities.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost

       • The actual project cost was US$ 329.9 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 267.0 million (with the subsequent addition of additional
       financing to total US$ 333.67 million). There were cost overruns for the roads component, delays in compliance to start activities in the water
       supply/sewerage component, and changes in the government prioritization of drainage activities, all of which led to the reallocation of project
       funds from the latter two components to the roads component. Subsequent Additional Financing of US$ 50.0 million was approved to address
       these adjustments in financing.



    Financing

       • The project was originally financed by an IBRD loan of US$ 200.0 million, which was nearly fully disbursed.
       • Additional Financing in the form of an IBRD loan of US$ 50.0 million was approved in June 2010, in order to scale up the roads component and
       also to cover a financing gap for the water/sanitation and drainage components. US$ 49.76 million was disbursed.



    Borrower contribution

       • The Borrower was expected to contribute US$ 67.0 million, or approximately 25% of total project costs. This requirement was eliminated at
       the time of the October 2012 project restructuring due to fiscal constraints of the provincial government, although the counterpart funds were
       still contributed in the amount of US$ 80.14 million, which included funds at the end of the project period to allow completion of activities.



    Dates

       • June 2010: Additional Financing in the amount of US$ 50.0 million was approved. Nearly all of the original loan of US$ 200.0 million had
       disbursed. The key outcome indicators on developing a fiscal framework and reduction in waterborne diseases were dropped, while a new key
       outcome indicator on the number of poor people provided with access to water/sanitation services was added and the target for a key
       outcome indicator on roads (high traffic roughness index) was revised. The project closing date was extended from July 2009 to December 2013.
       The signing of the Additional Financing of 2010 was delayed until February 2012 due to an extended process between the provincial government
       and the federal government to guarantee the loan.
       • October 2012: The project was restructured to enable 100% financing of project costs from IBRD and to revise targets for key indicators on
       roads (roughness index), water supply and sanitation (number of beneficiaries) and drainage (hectares with improved drainage).
       • May 2013: The project closing date was extended from December 2013 to May 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The government of the province of Buenos Aires had prepared a comprehensive infrastructure program for 2005-2010, which aimed to
   improve the provision of infrastructure within a framework of fiscal responsibility. The program identified shortcomings in roads, water supply,
   sewerage and draining that negatively impact the productive potential of its economy and living conditions of the poor. The paved road
   network needed urgent attention and sustainable maintenance plans, approximately 50% of the people did not have access to potable water,
   only 25% of the people were connected to proper sewerage systems, and inadequate urban and drainage planning lead to recurrent flooding
   in urban areas. Additionally, as the country was emerging from the economic and financial crisis in 2001-02 (during which time the province
   defaulted on its international bonds) , the fiscal considerations had become a high priority for the federal government of Argentina in its
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



       dealings with provincial-level governments. Bilateral agreements between the federal and provincial governments allowed the province to
       access federal resources, while committing it to achieve certain fiscal targets. These resources were used, in part, for infrastructure
       investments which had particularly fallen off due to lack of funds.

       The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for FY2004-08 identified maintaining and improving infrastructure as a key sub-theme, and the
       current Strategy for FY2015-18 more specifically identifies improving transport services and increasing access to water supply and sanitation
       services for low-income populations as key results areas.




       Rating                                                                                   Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                              Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       The planned project outputs for roads, water supply/sewerage and drainage were relevant. Rehabilitation and construction of high priority
       roads, alongside institutional development to improve operations and maintenance of those roads, was likely to improve their condition. The
       expansion of water supply and sewerage networks was likely to improve access to services, particularly for poor and vulnerable populations.
       Poverty criteria according to the Index of Household Material Deprivation formed the basis for targeting low-income populations. Storm sewers
       were to be installed in areas highly vulnerable to the impacts of flooding.

       The causal link between the project interventions and intended outcomes and its objectives was however weak (i.e., reduction in waterborne
       diseases, development of the fiscal framework, and reactivation of the Province's economy and strengthening of its regional
       competitiveness). Project interventions were unlikely to have a direct (and attributable) impact on strengthening the Province's economy and
       regional competitiveness.




       Rating                                                                                   Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                                   Modest



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To enhance provision of water and sewerage services for the benefit of low-income people, in particular for those people living in highly
     vulnerable areas.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Extension of four piped water supply networks, which enabled an additional 22,403 household water connections in under-served, low-
        income neighborhoods.
        • Extension of seven sewerage networks, which enabled an additional 65,104 sewerage lines in poor neighborhoods.
        • Provision of institutional development support to the four water utility operators. The ICR does not specify the type of support provided.
        • Provision of Institutional development support to DIPAC, the department responsible for capital investments and network expansion. Over the
        project period, the department implemented 64 sub-projects with a total value of ARS 1.3 billion; as of project closing, the department was still
        implementing 15 sub-projects with a total value of ARS 355 million, including through funds from other donors.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)




    Outcomes

        • The number of people provided access to water supply and sanitation services was 314,840. This fell short of the original target of 450,000. These
        services were provided in targeted poor neighborhoods which met poverty criteria (an Index of Household Material Deprivation rating higher than 40
        percent).
        • The number of residents in urban areas provided access to improved water sources was 85,775. This achieved the target of 85,775.
        • Coverage by each of the four project-supported water utility operators increased as follows: 62%-95%; 62%-85%; 45%-71%; and 55%-65%.
        • Coverage by each of the seven project-supported sewerage operators increased as follows: 68%-75%; 45%-71%; 43%-53%; 85%-95%; 26%-54%; 0%-
        35%; and 0%-40%.
        • The original outcome indicator of a reduction in water-borne diseases was dropped. There is no data reported.




    Rating
    Modest




    Revised Objective
    Objective remained the same.

    Revised Rationale
    The objective remained the same, while the target for the key indicator was revised in 2010 and 2012.

    Outcomes under first revised targets - Substantial

        • The number of poor people provided access to water supply and sanitation services was 314,840. This surpassed the revised target of 259,073.
        • Of these, the number receiving water connections was 85,775 (target: 85,775); the number with access to sewerage services was 254,047 (target:
        272,512); the number receiving active sewerage connections was 229,065 (target: 173,298).



    Outcomes under second revised targets - Substantial

        • The number of poor people provided access to water supply and sanitation services was 314,840. This surpassed the second revised target
        of 267,270.
        • Of these, the number receiving water connections was 85,775 (target: 85,775); the number with access to sewerage services was 254,047 (target:
        254,057); the number receiving active sewerage connections was 229,065 (target: 181,495).




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To improve high priority road segments of the Borrower's road network.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                         Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



Rationale
Outputs

  • Rehabilitation of 649.4 km of inter-urban and primary roads (original target: 457).
  • Construction of 28.1 km of non-rural roads (original target: 25).
  • Development of a strategy for road maintenance and investment at the DVBA.
  • Development of system for load control on the primary road network and management of routine maintenance.The original results indicator of the
  reduction in percentage of trucks with axle overload in pilot area was dropped that would allow to monitor the reduction following the control
  implementation of truck loads on provincial roads.



Outcomes

  • The condition of high traffic roads, according to the High Traffic International Roughness Index (HT IRI), was 3.36 at project closing. This fell short of
  the original target of < 3.
  • The condition of the overall road network, according to the International Roughness Index (IRI), was 3.0 at project closing, essentially maintained
  at the baseline score of 2.98. This achieved the original target of <3.3. However, the project's activities comprise only about 10% of the total
  provincial road network.
  • According to the ICR (page 15), the project interventions had "a very positive effect on capacity building within DVBA, with the department now
  able to measure the condition of roads and prepare and implement ongoing maintenance programs based on road condition and traffic volume."




Rating
Substantial




Revised Objective
Objective remained the same.

Revised Rationale
The objective remained the same, while the targets for the key indicators were revised on two occasions as the roads component was scaled
up to increase the kilometers of primary roads rehabilitated.

Outputs

  • Rehabilitation of 649.4 km of inter-urban and primary roads (revised target: 649).
  • Construction of 28.1 km of non-rural roads (revised target: 28).



Outcomes

  • The condition of high traffic roads, according to the High Traffic International Roughness Index, was 3.36 at project closing. This fell slightly short of
  the first revised target of <3.3 but achieved the second revised target of <3.8.
  • The condition of the overall road network, according to International Roughness Index (IRI), was 3.0 at project closing. This achieved the first
  revised target of <3.3 and also the second revised target of <3.5. However, the project's activities comprise only about 10% of the total provincial road
  network.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                       Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)




    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     To mitigate urban flooding

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Upgraded storm sewer system in the municipality of Ituzaingo. Similar outputs were planned in four other municipalities but were completed
        under the APL2.
        • Implementation of non-structural urban drainage measures, including adoption of "Drainage Good Practices Manual," land-use regulations,
        introduction of environmental measures in urban planning, and new procedures for operation/maintenance of drainage systems. The ICR (page 17)
        reports Borrower comments that the new design guidelines "have resulted in a complete rethinking of the way planners approach drainage
        infrastructure."



    Outcomes

        • The number of hectares with improved drainage was 230. This fell far short of the original target of 3,063.
        • The ICR (page 17) reports Borrower comments that the project outputs have resulted in "significantly better outcomes in events that used to cause
        damaging floods." The project municipality of Ituzaingo experienced recent heavy rains but due to the project interventions, no flooding or damage
        resulted.




    Rating
    Modest




    Revised Objective
    Objective remained the same.

    Revised Rationale
    The objective remained the same, while the target for the key indicator was revised under the second restructuring (October 2012).

    Outcomes

        • The number of hectares with improved drainage was 230. This achieved the revised target of 230.
        • A survey conducted by the province in 2015 (as reported in ICR, page 46) showed the difference in impact between project areas and non-projects
        areas: 21% of houses in project areas were affected with floods compared to 49.3% in non-project areas; 14.7% of the working population in project
        areas were affected (i.e. arriving late or missing work), compared to 48.6% in non-project areas; 40.7% of students in project areas were affected (i.e.
        arriving late or missing school) compared to 76.0% in non-project areas.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



    Revised Rating
    Substantial

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 4

    Objective
     To support the reactivation of the Borrower's economy and strengthen its regional competitiveness.


    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Conducting of studies for "pre-investment for competition and employment generation" including: strategic port study; strategy for provincial
        productive development; and territorial development and investment strategy. All provincial projects (5,200) are incorporated in the provincial
        database within the Provincial System of Public Investment
        • Development of SIGADE, the public debt management system.


    Outcomes

        • The key outcome indicator of the development of a sustainable fiscal framework was dropped. The ICR (p.18) notes that there was a deterioration
        in fiscal results for the Province, as reported, largely due to the national-level changes in provincial responsibilities and revenue sharing.
        • While the project outputs may have contributed to the reactivation of the Province's economy and strengthening its regional competitiveness,
        there is no evidence to support this. Attribution to project outputs is weak. As noted in the ICR (page 18), economic recovery was experienced by the
        country as a whole.




    Rating
    Negligible




    Revised Objective
    Objective remained the same.

    Revised Rationale
    No revisions to indicators.




    Revised Rating
    Negligible




   5. Efficiency

   Water Supply/Sanitation
   The economic analysis conducted in the PAD (Annex 9 ) included sewerage but not water supply activities. The economic rate of return is
   estimated for each of the 34 planned sewerage subprojects and ranged from 6% to 86%, assuming that a total of 140,000 households people
   receiving connections to secondary sewer networks. Costs are represented by the project investment costs and recurrent costs; benefits are
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



represented by savings resulting from using sewerage connections in place of septic tanks. Although other benefits were expected (savings
generated by the sewerage utilities due to reduced contamination; positive environmental externalities from reduced pollution; and positive
externalities in public health due to improved sanitation practices), these were not included in the analysis.

An ex-post economic analysis conducted for the ICR (Annex 4) included sewerage, water supply, and drainage interventions. The rate of return
is estimated as 16% (30.0% for water supply, 13.0% for sewerage, 13.0% for drainage). Costs remain represented by project investment costs
and recurrent costs. Benefits are calculated as savings from avoided costs of purchased water from vendors, savings resulting from sewerage
connections in place of septic tanks, and avoided loss of time at work or school due to flooding. The rate of return in the ICR is lower than
expected in the PAD. The ICR also provides a unit cost comparison which indicates reasonable project cost. The unit cost for the project's
water supply/sewerage activities is estimated at US$ 850 / service line. Unit costs for similar Bank project interventions in the region are as
follows: Ecuador Guayaquil: US$600 for water and sewerage; Nicaragua: US$ 594 and US$ 836 for sewerage; Argentina (different
region): US$ 1,540 for sewerage; Brazil: US$1,847 for sewerage; and Costa Rica: US$ 3,590.

Roads
The economic analysis conducted in the PAD (Annex 9 ) also estimated the economic rate of return for roads interventions as
122.0%, assuming 483 km of roads were constructed or rehabilitated as planned. Costs are represented by the project investment costs and
road user costs. Benefits are represented by increased access to localities and ports, and increased vehicle speeds. An ex-post economic
analysis was conducted for the ICR (Annex 4), using data from a sample of rehabilitated roads (206.7 km). The rate of return for roads
interventions is estimated at 48.4%. The assumed benefits were the same; however, the costs for road rehabilitation were much higher than
appraised. According to the ICR, the significant difference between appraised and actual cost was due to: i) significantly underestimated
appraisal costs, to some degree due to the fact that the proposed works were only at a preliminary design stage; and ii) construction costs
increased worldwide due to the rising cost of oil. Additionally, there were exchange rate fluctuations such that the costs in USD increased while
the USD/ARS exchange rate remained the same. Although outputs exceeded the appraisal estimate, this was counterbalanced by
higher construction costs. The ICR notes that the increased costs were consistent with rehabilitation and other roadwork costs financed by other
sources and in other countries in the region, however, no specific data are provided.

Efficiency is rated Modest due to administrative and operational inefficiencies in the use of project resources. These include the lengthy internal
administrative and procurement processes, as well as project design weaknesses that led to significant delays and extended the project
duration to 10 years.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             75.80
 Appraisal                                                               60.80
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             92.80
 ICR Estimate                                                            36.80
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Outcome under original targets: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Relevance of the project objectives is rated High, while relevance of the project design is rated Modest. Achievement of the objective to enhance
provision of water and sewerage services for low-income people and the objective to mitigate urban flooding are rated Modest due to shortfalls in
the original targets. Achievement of the objective to improve high priority road segments is rated Substantial. Achievement of the objective
to support the reactivation of the Borrower's economy is rated Negligible due to lack of evidence and weak attribution to project outputs.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



Efficiency is rated Modest over the entire project period due to administrative and operational inefficiencies in the use of project resources.

Outcome under first revised targets: Moderately Satisfactory
Ratings remain the same except for achievement of the objectives to enhance provision of water and sewerage services, which is now rated
Substantial due to achievement of revised targets.

Outcome under second revised targets: Moderately Satisfactory
Ratings remain the same except for achievement of the objective to mitigate urban flooding is now rated Substantial due to meeting of the
revised target for that indicator.

Efficiency is rated Modest over the entire project period due to administrative and operational inefficiencies in the use of project resources.

Overall outcome: Moderately Unsatisfactory
According to harmonized OPCS/IEG guidelines, the combined outcome rating for a restructured project is determined by weighting the proportion
of the Loan that disbursed before and after each restructuring. At the time of the first revision of targets (June 2010), the project had disbursed
US$ 197.45 million, out of US$ 249.76 million, or 79.1% (Moderately Unsatisfactory rating). Between then and the second revision of targets
(October 2012), the project had disbursed US$ 2.55 million, or 1.0% (Moderately Satisfactory rating). After the second revision, the project
disbursed US$ 49.76 million, or 20.0% (Moderately Satisfactory rating). Therefore the weighted outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Institutional capacity was somewhat strengthened in the three Ministry of Infrastructure directorates to plan and maintain infrastructure
operations. However, financial sustainability remains a significant concern. Current tariff levels for water and sewerage activities do not cover
operating and maintenance costs for operators, although subsidies from the government are being utilized to keep services functioning. The
government budget for road maintenance is currently inadequate (ICR, Annex 4).



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     This project was the first of a two-phase multisectoral infrastructure operation (Phase 2 of the Adaptable Program Loan was approved in
     2007 for US $270.0 million. It was fully disbursed and closed in December 2013, with a Satisfactory rating in the ICR but a Moderately
     Unsatisfactory rating in IEG's ICR Review). This two-phased approach was intended, in part, to allow flexibility in the pace of
     implementation given the varying degrees of readiness in the various sectors. Project preparation was overall technically sound, including
     the conducting of a technical and economic analysis of the entire road network to prioritize those segments needing rehabilitation. Water
     and sewerage subprojects, however, were yet to be identified and were not assessed until the implementation period. The risk
     assessment identified salient risks, with the exception of the potential negative impact of rising construction costs. Although the risk of lack
     of capacity to implement technical assistance activities was identified, mitigation measures were ineffective. The ICR (page 9) notes
     that these activities were "somewhat overdesigned, with a comprehensive, longer-term program of activities that should probably not have
     been identified without earlier phases being completed." There were also shortcomings in the consistency and explicit articulation of
     objectives, including disparities between key indicators as expressed in the main text of the PAD vs. the results framework in the annex,
     and weak linkages between the project interventions and intended outcomes (i.e., reduction in waterborne diseases, development of the
     fiscal framework, and reactivation of the Province's economy and strengthening of its regional competitiveness).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The Bank team was responsive to challenges that arose during the project implementation period, including the rise in construction costs
   and the varying degrees of readiness in the sectors. Project funds were reallocated to the well-performing components, additional financing
   was secured to support achievement of the water supple/sewerage outcomes, and drainage activities were shifted to the APL2 due to long
   delays. As noted above, the complexity of the technical assistance activities, combined with initial delays and lack of experience resulted in
   shortcomings in implementing these activities. There were also shortfalls in completing all activities as planned in the original project
   design. Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs) give project rating of Satisfactory throughout most of the project period, indicating a
   lack of candor in reporting. The inconsistencies between outputs, outcomes, and PDOs were addressed late in the project implementation,
   after the original loan had been almost fully disbursed.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The provincial government demonstrated strong commitment to the project, as it was highly consistent with its own five-year infrastructure
   program. Counterpart financing was provided as needed. However, there was a significant delay in signing the loan for the Additional
   Financing due to issues in guaranteeing sub-sovereign loans between the national and provincial governments, however, as noted by the
   ICR (p.23), this did not result in implementation delays. There were also delays in procurement due to lengthy government processes.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Ministry of Infrastructure established a project coordination unit (UCPO) to coordinate implementation of activities by the three
   different directorates. The ICR (page 8) reports that the implementation arrangements "worked well, with clear lines of decision-making
   and reporting, and internal communication that enabled sharing of lessons learned and problem-solving." The project administrative
   delays were largely due to lengthy internal processes beyond the control of IA, as noted by the ICR (page 24). Fiduciary and safeguards
   performance was satisfactory. The M&E arrangements were largely implemented as planned. As noted in the ICR (page 9), the
   complex terms of reference, uncertainty with respect to intended outcomes, and lack of experience within the implementing agencies
   with respect to technical assistance also contributed to slow implementation of the technical assistance component. There were also
   shortcomings in the technical design of drainage operations which led to implementation delays for this component and subsequent
   reallocation of funds.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)




a. M&E Design
   As noted previously, there were shortcomings in the result framework. The articulation of the objectives was inconsistent among project
   documents. There were also shortcomings in the choice of key indicators (i.e. regular updating of the fiscal framework; reduction in
   waterborne illnesses) . Some of these challenges were addressed through project restructurings, albeit very late into the project period
   (October 2012).




b. M&E Implementation
   Project progress was monitored regularly by the relevant directorates. The ICR (page 11) reports that road surface quality monitoring "became
   embedded in the work of DVBA" and the quality of the information was "consistent and sound."




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR reports that project monitoring data on road surface quality was used by DVBA to inform its broader road maintenance program and
   investment planning.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a Category "B" project, triggering safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Cultural
   Property (OP 4.11), and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). Capacity building on safeguards implementation was included
   in the project design. The safeguard policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) was added at the time of Additional Financing due to
   the arising of a case of involuntary resettlement under the roads component. The ICR (page 11) reports the findings of the case review,
   including that although "policies consistent with the World Bank requirements had been followed by the implementing agency, it was noted
   that the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard had not been triggered" and therefore a framework for potential cases was developed.
   Supervision reports on overall safeguards and environment management reflect effective monitoring of these issues by the implementing
   agency, including the introduction of systemic oversight on occupational health and safety issues. According to the ICR (page 11), there
   were no major social or environmental problems identified.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: Procurement performance was overall satisfactory although marked by persistent delays. According to the ICR (page 12), the
   delays were due to lengthy internal (government) procurement processes; higher than expected bids due to increased international prices;
   and low capacity to handle procurement for the complex technical assistance activities. Also, capital and exchange controls may have
   discouraged international firms from bidding on works, and in particular, technical assistance, thereby reducing competition in the
   procurement process. There were no major problems in procurement reported.

   Financial management: Financial management performance was overall satisfactory. Financial management arrangements were generally
   in compliance with Bank requirements with timely reporting. Audits were unqualified and there were no reports of ineligible expenditures.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                             Reason for
Ratings                                        ICR                                    IEG
                                                                                                                             Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory               ---
Risk to Development Outcome                    Substantial                           Substantial                             ---
Bank Performance                               Moderately Unsatisfactory             Moderately Unsatisfactory               ---
Borrower Performance                           Moderately Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                 ---
Quality of ICR                                                                       Substantial                             ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons


     • There are significant benefits and also drawbacks to be considered in adopting a sub-national lending approach. In the case of this project, lending
     directly to the sub-national government contributed to greater relevance of project interventions, narrower project scope to aid measuring project
     impact, and strengthened institutional capacity. However, there were also delays caused by the need to clarify loan guarantee terms between the
     province and the national government.
     • The technical assistance component should be realistically designed, in accordance with borrower capacity, in order to take the opportunity to further
     influence policies and reforms in the infrastructure sector. In the case of this project, the technical assistance component relied on successful completion
     of earlier phases (which did not materialize) and the utility and purpose of such activities was also not clarified. In addition, Borrower capacity to procure
     technical assistance was limited.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is consistent with guidelines. The analysis of project achievements was sound, clearly drawing from the data on project outputs
which were generally of high quality. The discussion of implementation challenges was candid and informative for future operations.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       AR CRL1 APL1 Buenos Aires Infrastr SIDP(P088032)



a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
