RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                Report No. P-763
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY OF CYPRUS
FOR THE
THIRD POWER PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
December 10, 1969



REPORT AND RECOC1aETDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
OF CYPRUS FOR THE THIRD POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S.$5 million to
the Electricity Authority of Cyprus.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has made two loans to the Electricity Authority of
Cyprus (EAC). The first loan (335-CY) of $21 million was made in
1963 to help the EAC carry out its First Five-Year Development Program
(1962-1966), consisting of the construction of the Moni steam power
station with two 30 MW generating units and the expansion of transmission
and distribution systems. Since the scope of the project was reduced
and some of the equipment required was eventually financed by the United
Kingdom, $5.7 million of the Bank's loan was cancelled. The project was
completed in 1967. The second loan (h94-CY) of $2.8 million was made in
1967 to expand the Moni station with a third 30 MiW unit which was part of
the Second Five-Year Development Program (1967-1971). Progress of this
project is satisfactory; on November 30, 1969 U.S.$6h3,000 of the loan
remained to be disbursed.
3.        The EC has now requested the Bank to finance the foreign currer,cry
requirements of the Third Power Project, consisting of a fourth 30 Pyvl unitL
at Moni and the extension of transmission facilities.
4.        Negotiations for the proposed Bank loan were held in Washington
between November 20 and 28, 1969. The delegation from Cyprus consisted of
M4r. L. G. Anastasiades, Chief Engineer and General Manager of the EAC
and head of the EAC delegation, Mr. L. Demetriou, Chief Accountant of
the EAC, Mr. G. Cacoyannis, Legal Adviser to the EAC, and 1Mr. T. Theophilou
of the Treasury Department in the Ministry of Finance, representing
the Government.
5.        The Bark has made three loans to Cyprus totalling $29.6 million
equivalent net of cancellations.  As described above, two of them
totalling $18.1 million net of cancellations have been made to the EAC.
A third loan ($11.5 million) was made in June 1969 for the Cyprus Ports
Project; it became effective on October 1, 1969. The projects for which
these loans have been made have been or are being carried out satis-
factorily, and their status as of November 30, 1969 was as foLlows:



-2-
Loan                                                  Amount (US$milli :aI
Number   Year             Borrower           Purpose   Bank     Undisbursed
335      1963   Electricity Authority of  Electric    15.3          -
Cyprus                    Power
494      1967   Electricity Authority of   Electric     2.8         .6
Cyprus                    Power
628      1969   Republic of Cyprus         Ports       11.5       11.5
Total (less cancellations)                    29.6
of which has been repaid to Bank and others         1.9
Total now outstanding                         27.7
Amount sold             2.0
of which has been repaid      1.3                     .7
Total now held by Bank                        27.0
Total undisbursed                                        12.1
6.        The Bank also has under review a project for the development
of the sewerage systems in Nicosia and Famagusta which is likely to
come up for consideration by the Executive Directors in mid-1970.
PART II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:             Electricity Authority of Cyprus
Guarantor:            Republic of Cyprus
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to
U.S.$5 million
Purpose:              To finance the foreign exchange costs
of generating and transmission
facilities
Amortization:         In 20 years including a 3-1/2 year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning July 15, 1973 and ending
January 15, 1990
Interest Rate:        7 per cent
Commitment Charge:    3/4 of 1 per cent



- 3 -
PART III. THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Electricity Authority of Cyprus:
Appraisal of the Third Power Project, Cyprus" (PU-25a dated December 5,
1969) is attached.
The Project
9.        The Project proposed for Bank financing consists of:
a)   Expansion of the lMoni generating station with the installation
of a fourth 30 NW steam turbo-generator, similar to the three
existing units financed with earlier Bank loans;
b)   Construction of 87 miles of 132/66 kv transmission lines;   and
c)   Expansion of the existing Moni substation with two 45 NVA
transformers, and construction of a new substation at
Athalassa.
10.       The installation of a fourth 30 YW steam turbine unit at Moni
is the most economical step to meet the projected increase in demanld.
The only practical alternative would be the installation of a gas turbine
which would have a somewhat lower capital cost but disproportionately
higher operating costs. The extension of the transmission system follows
the orderly development recommended in the long-range plan prepared by
the consultants who were retained with the Bank's approval under previous
loans.  It is needed to maintain satisfactory service standards consiste--
with the load  growth.
11.       On the basis of international bids received for the equipment re-
quired, the total estimated cost of the project is $6.2 million equivalenb 5
of which the proposed $5.0 million loan is the foreign exchange compcnent.
The proposed loan would cover 25 per cent of the MAC's total investment
expenditure from 1970 through 1972 and would complete the financing plan
for that period. The other funds required would be obtained mainly from
EAC's internal resources.
The Borrower:
12.       The EAC was established in 1952 as an independent agency to
centralize the power supply for Cyprus, until then the responsibility of
the municipalities. It has a Government-nominated Board of Directors,
who, in turn, appoint the executive management. The present chief
executive has been in charge since 1961.



13.       The EAC raises capital by borrowing and its equity consists
entirely of retained earnings which at the end of 1968 amounted to
$9.7 million. Long term debt, other than the two Bank loans, consists
mainly of five Government loans totalling $18.9 million made between
1953 and 1959 and bearing interest at 4.9 per cent per annum on the
average.
14.       Under the two earlier Bank loans, the Government agreed not
to ask for repayment of its loans to the EAC during the life of the
two Bank loans. Since then the EAC's financial situation has improved
and the Bank has informed the Government and the EAC that it would be
prepared in principle to approve a schedule for repayment of the
Government loans which would be consistent with the maintenance of a
sound financial position by EAC.
15.       The EAC's financial position should continue to develop
satisfactorily.  Projections show that during the period 1970-1973
earnings produce a return of over 9 per cent on net fixed assets in
operation, and internal cash generation would cover debt service over
twice.
PART IV. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AID AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Electricity
Authority of Cyprus, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Republic of
Cyprus and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in
Article 3, Section h (iii) and the text of the Resolution approving thc
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
17.       The draft Loan Agreement and draft Guarantee Agreement follow
the pattern of agreements for power projects in general and those of
the two first loans to the Electricity Authority of Cyprus in
particular.



-5-
PART V.   THE ECONOMY
18.       The report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Cyprus"
(EA 174a), circulated to the Executive Directors on October 31, 1968,
recorded the impressive growth of the economy under the First Five-Year
Plan (1961-1966) in spite of political difficulties. The Bank concluded
that the economic performance and prospects of Cyprus justified continued
Bank lending and that Cyprus, in view of its excellent debt service
record and low debt service payments, was creditworthy for the port loan
then pending.
19.       An economic mission visited Cyprus in February 1969. A
"Memorandum on the Economic Situation of Cyprus" (EC/0/69-52/1) dated
June 5, 1969 was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1969.
The mission's findings confirmed a favorable assessment of Cyprus'
economic prospects formulated in the previous report. Another updating
economic mission visited Cyprus in October 1969.
20.       The political climate has improved this year.   The two
communities, Greek and Turkish, are beginning to meet and discuss prob-
lems whilst the growing demand for labor is providing increasing
opportunities for Turkish workers to be employed in Greek enterprises.
There is general agreement on the need for a negotiated solution of the
political problem, but no breakthrough has yet been achieved, and the
situation must still be regarded as unstable.
21.       Against the background of an improved political climate, there
is expected to be a very large increase in GNP in real terms of 10-12
per cent in 1969. This is considerably more than the average growth rate
target (7 per cent) of the Second Five Year Plan (1967-71). Agriculture
and tourism, and to a lesser degree mining and manufacturing, will con-
tribute to further development. But there are also signs of economic
tensions and inflationary pressures. These stem from lack of skilled man-
power, a large wave of wage increases arising from agreements fallirg
due simultaneously for renewal, an excessive expansion of credit arising
from high domestic liquidity, a large public sector cash deficit, a high
rate of investment and a large temporary inflow of capital due to
speculation, particularly in real estate. All of these factors have
contributed to the emergence of substantial purchasing power in excess of
real production. Due to this increasing purchasing power there has been
a rapid growth of imports resulting in a deterioration of the balance of
payments on current account. The overall balance, however, has showed a
large surplus due to the large inflow of what appears to be speculative
capital.
22.       The Government has been concerned and has taken steps to meet
this situation by resorting to traditional monetary and fiscal policies
and to other measures designed to encourage savings and to discourage



- 6 -
speculation. So far any significant increase in prices which would
affect competitiveness has been avoided. Whilst the Government of
Cyprus is entering a period in which it may face riajor economic
difficulties and have to develop new methods for controlling the econormiy,
there is no reason - aside from the internal political problems -
why it should not succeed.
23.       At the end of 1968 CyprusI foreign exchange reserves were
equivalent to eleven months' visible imports and with the inflow of
capital in 1969 these appear to be growing. However, the openness of
the economy, the requirements for rehabilitation which are likely to
draw heavily on domestic resources once the political situation becomes
more stabilized, the eventual reduction in military expenditures by the
U.K. (which maintains a base on the island), the need for increasing
development expenditures and diversifying the economy are all factors
indicating that Cyprus may have substantial foreign exchange require-
ments in the near future. Hence the present relatively high level of
foreign exchange reserves should not be regarded as more than an
adequate safeguard. Cyprus has an excellent debt service record and
the amount of outstanding external debt of about $30 million is modest.
Assuming that it will borrow on conventional terms the $SL million of
external financing required under the Second Plan, its debt service in
1971 would still be only 4 per cent of gross current foreign exchange
earnings. In spite of the political uncertainties, Cyprus is
considered creditworthy for Bank loans.
PART VI. COMPLLUICE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMET
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed Bank loan complies with the
requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII, RECOMMENDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
December 10, 1969



