Docament of
The World Bank                   tILL              i
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RqwI No. P-2848-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION (PRIMARY) PROJECT
June 9, 1980
This dCuuat has restid dis*ibutlo NW my be sed by riplets mly in tbe pe"emsme .f
tdhr dSebu  due  Us etetts may ad otewise be diklosed witb   Wrd Beak 1a1hdu.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
In August 1979, the Bangladesh Taka was officially devalued
relative to the Pound Sterling to a rate of Tk 34.7 to the Pound.
The Pound Sterling now floats relative to the US dollar and conse-
quently, the Taka-US dollar rate is subject to change, although it
has been fairly stable for some time at around Tk 15.5 per dollar.
The rate below has been used throughout this report except where
otherwise stated.
US$1                -      Taka 15.5
Taka 1              -      US$0.0645
Taka million        =      US$64,500
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
January-December
GEOGRAPHIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
Division     -  The largest unit below the national government. (4)
District     -  The largest unit within a division. (20)
Subdivision  -  Each district is divided into 2 or 3 subdivisions. (71)
Thana        -  The bapic local government unit. (473)
Union        -  A grouping of villages with a local council. (about 6,500)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFE          -  Academy for Fundamental Education
ATEO         -  Assistant Thana Education Officer
DPE          -  Directorate of Primary Education or
such other body responsible for administration
of primary education
DPI          -  Directorate of Public Instruction
DEO          -  District Education Officer
FREPD        -  Foundation for Research in Educational Planning
and Development
HRF          -  Human Resources Foundation
MOE          -  Ministry of Education
PIU          -  Project Implementationa Unit (National)
PEU          -  Project Evaluation Unit
RPU          -  Regional Project Unit
PEO          -  Primary Education Officer (Subdivision)
PTI          -  Primary (Teacher) Training Institute
TEO          -  Thana Education Officer
UPE          - Universal Primary Education
IMPACT       -  Instructional Management by Parents, Community
and Teachers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FOURTH EDUCATION (PRIMARY) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             US$40 Million
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:      The proposed project would constitute the first phase of
a long-term program to overcome the major problems of
primary education. The four main objectives would be:
(a) increased access to primary schools, especially for
girls and for rural poverty groups, to be achieved by:
(i) providing school facilities and materials (textbooks,
uniforms); (ii) providing more female teachers; (iii)
enhanced supervision to improve teacher attendance and
performance; and (iv) increased community school control
through more parental involvement in School Management
Committees; (b) reduced wastage by reducing student
dropout and repetition; (c) improved quality of instruc-
tion through teacher training refresher courses in better
teaching methods and class room management, and more
frequent supervision; and (d) reduced costs by employing
a higher student-teacher ratio, by having larger class
and school sizes and by employing assistant teachers
in rural schools.
The project would improve primary education in 40 thanas
by increasing enrollment, particularly of girls, reducing
drop out rates and improve pupil achievement. The proj-
ect would demonstrate methods which will be replicable
throughout Bangladesh.
The project faces normal socio-economic and implementa-
tion risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                         Local   Foreign   Total
…    (US$ Million)-----
Staff Training                      3.0      0.7       3.7
Physical Facilities                15.6      5.2      20.8
Learning Materials and
Equipment                       3.2       3.8       6.9
Technical Assistance               0.4       1.5       1.9
Incremental Staff Costs             1.8      0.2       2.0
Studies                                      0.2       0.3
Total Baseline Costs              24.0      11.6      35.6
Contingencies
Physical                        1.9       0.9       2.8
Price                          10.6       3.3      13.9
Total Contingencies                12.5      4.2      16.7
Total Project Costs
(including duties and taxes
of US$8 million)                 36.6      15.8      52.4
Less Duties and Taxes               8.0                8.0
Total Net Project Costs: a/
(excluding Duties and
Taxes)                         28.6      15.8      44.4
Financing Plan:                                                   Total
-----…US$ Million------
IDA                                          40.0
Government                                    4.4
Total                                      44.4
Estimated
Disbursements                       IDA FY81   82    83    84   85    86    87
Annual              0.3   2.6   7.1   9.8  10.7   7.7   1.8
Cumulative          0.3   2.9  10.0  19.8  30.5  38.2  40.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   Bangladesh Fourth Education (Primary) Project No. 2964-BD
dated May 21, 1980.
a/   Totals may not agree due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (PRIMARY)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$$40 million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a primary education
project over six years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-Term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically during these troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence
level only in 1975/76; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per
year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels
near minimum standards. The terms of trade worsened considerably and the
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the difficulties. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national govern-
ment from a provincial administation, and the consolidation of Government
authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy makers in the
first half of the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, has led to a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. Although it
was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence level, between
FY75-79 GDP increased (in real terms) by about 25%--an average annual rate of
6% notwithstanding setbacks to agricultural production experienced in FY77 and
again in FY79. The late 1970s may, therefore, be characterized as a period of
consolidation and economic recovery following the shocks of the early 1970s.
In recognition of its need for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended to give
the Government time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.



- 2 -
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.         From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who had won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for the economy.
Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10%
increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8% in real terms, following a
2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past two years has again demon-
strated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy. During this
period, economic developments were dominated and largely determined by the
consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and floods.
These conditions affected adversely both the foodgrain crops (which represent
roughly one-third of GDP) and the quality of the jute crop; they also had
repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation, which was aggra-
vated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid rises in rice
prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth in FY79 slowed
sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually, real per capita income
rose only minimally. On the positive side, FY79 was characterized by a contin-
uing strong performance of the construction sector, improved budgetary perform-
ance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of
significant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of exchange rate
management and public sector pricing. Due to the continuing effect of the
1978-79 drought, the outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth will be about 4-5%,
i.e., well below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY79 was considerably (7%) below the previous year's level.
Together with a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of food aid during
the first half of CY79, this resulted in a fall in per capita availability of
food and in an increase in rice prices to levels unrecorded since the food
crisis of FY75. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement from the small
crops and high offtakes from the public grain distribution system led to a
rapid depletion of public food stocks which fell to the dangerously low level
of only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort to import and distribute the massive volume of
foodgrains needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and December 1979. This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.



Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the other sectors
of the economy was held to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other bulk commodities and the shipment of exports were
impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain imports. Neverthe-
less, the authorities were able to unload and distribute this unprecedented
volume of foodgrain imports in a minimal amount of time, enabling offtake to
be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more comfortable level. By the
beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices had begun to ease and what
might have become an extremely serious food crisis was averted.
9.        The slow growth of agricultural production has become the principal
focal point of concern among Bangladesh's political leadership and economic
planners. The Second Five-Year Plan is expected to give top priority--together
with population control--to agriculture, and especially to food production.
Meanwhile, the short-term food supply outlook is still problematic, although
the public stock position at the end of CY79 was adequate because of the sub-
stantial imports between July 1979 and December 1979. The 1979/80 aman crop,
also affected by the drought, was not much better than last year's, and pro-
curement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price increase--
was very small. In order to avert a repetition of the CY79 situation, consid-
erable additional imports will be needed in CY80. The FY80 boro and wheat
crops appear to be good, but efforts to ensure an adequate stock of foodgrain
to meet 1980 consumption and stock build-up requirements cannot yet be relaxed.
A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in late January
1980 to consider the country's food situation, import requirements and policy
measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent experience. A
Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues," prepared for consider-
ation at that meeting, was distributed to the Executive Directors in December
1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in
the balance of payments, as the need to finance commercial purchases of food
imports was evidently a factor underlying the Government's rather cautious
implementation of its import program. Other factors included a slow rate of
utilization of import licenses during the latter part of the fiscal year. As
a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies. The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were still
not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the projec-
ted levels of FY80. A substantial increase in the current account deficit is
projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price
of foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported crude
oil and petroleum products and other imports. Reserves at the end of FY80
are likely to be equivalent to scarcely one month's projected FY81 imports.
1/   Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in
value in FY79 and the terms of trade improved somewhat during the year, the
trade deficit widened to $1 billion. The value of raw jute exports increased
by 47% over the previous year's receipts, reflecting increases in both volume
and prices.  Export earnings from jute manufactures rose by 11% in FY79, as a
decline in export volume was more than offset by an increase in unit prices.
Relatively large gains were also recorded in exports of leather, fish and
shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the notable developments
on the import side in FY79 was the decline in food imports, owing mainly to
the delays in food aid arrivals noted above. Capital goods imports rose by
21% to US$384 million; fertilizer imports nearly doubled in value, and there
were significant increases also in imports of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The current account deficit in FY79 was considerably smaller than
the trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of workers'
remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most
important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods
exports. A notable development was the US$100 million increase in project
aid disbursements in FY79, reflecting in part the country's growing absorp-
tive capacity. Total aid disbursements, which exceeded US$1 billion for the
first time, were equivalent to 63% of total merchandise imports. Debt serv-
ice payments rose to US$95 million, notwithstanding some debt relief measures
undertaken by various donors, and the debt service ratio deteriorated from
13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of
exchange rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's financing require-
ments in FY80.
14.       The terms of trade are expected to remain unchanged in FY80 as
rising export prices for jute goods have helped to offset the impact of rising
petroleum and other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports are expec-
ted to increase by about 24% and imports by over 50% in value; foodgrain and
petroleum purchases alone will account for over three quarters of the increase
in imports. The FY80 current account deficit is expected to be largely covered
by disbursements of approximately $400 million in food aid, $500 million in
commodity aid and between $450-500 million in project aid--a total aid dis-
bursement of about $1.4 billion (i.e., roughly 35% more than in FY79). The
FY81 balance of payments situation is likely to be quite difficult even if
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



- 5 -
commodity aid availabilities increase substantially. The terms of trade are
projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly an expected fall in jute
goods export prices and a continuing rise in import prices. The FY81 current
accout deficit, therefore, could well be on the order of $1.8 billion.
Public Finance
15.       The public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve
further in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus
to the development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as rela-
tive terms. Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a
source of budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless,
inflation has again become a serious problem, and the implementation of many
projects, both aid-supported and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insuf-
ficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds. Further improvements in the
mobilization of domestic resources are urgently needed if the ratio of public
investment to GDP is to be raised above the 8-10% level of recent years.
16.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). Reflecting its growing awareness of the problem, the Govern-
ment impaneled a Taxation Enquiry Commission and five special committees to
review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) eco-
nomic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input sub-
sidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial
performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have concluded their
work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted
to the Government in April 1979.
17.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the interim
report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax
administration, have been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the
Government increased railway fares, and in the course of FY79 and FY80 it
raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and commodity sales
prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were
increased by 9-29% in August 1979 and petroleum product prices by up to 45%
in November 1979. In some cases these price adjustments only kept up with
inflation, but in others they served to reduce the subsidy burden in real
terms.
18.       Development expenditures (in current prices) increased by almost 40%
and total revenues by about 21% in FY79; development expenditures are projected
to increase by a further 29% and revenues by 21% in FY80. Increased develop-
ment activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project
aid, which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a
further 24% in FY80. As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic
budgetary deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as



- 6 -
well. But inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily
by too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into
FY79, especially in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very
rapidly. The cost of living (COL) index for urban consumers rose by an
estimated 19% between June 1978 and June 1979 although the average COL index
for FY79, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices, was only 9% above
that for FY78. The outlook for FY80 is that the inflation rate for the year as
a whole will be on the order of 15-16%, with liquidity rising by some 17-18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing the plans, the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade.
These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation and flood control, inade-
quate administrative capacity, low domestic resource mobilization, and social
impediments to change. The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by
the basic structural conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to
natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high rate of population
growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution of income and land owner-
ship; a high ratio of population to land; extreme fragmentation of landholdings
and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural population; high illiteracy;
poor health and short life expectancy; high unemployment and underemployment
and scarce employment possibilities outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence
on foreign aid, not only for investment financing, but also for food and other
recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in this Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of foodgrains. The potential for increasing
foodgrain output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields and cropping inten-
sity are low, and fertilizer use is still very modest. Except for last year,
when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer demand has been
growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded quickly since FY75 and
is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there seems to be a large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly food production can
be increased remains to be determined. The Plan's targets have yet to be
announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.
21.       Recent projections 1/ indicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million
by the year 2000 if a net reproduction rate of 1 were not reached until 2035.
These projections imply that the population growth rate, currently estimated
at about 2.5-2.7% per annum, would not decline very dramatically over the
next 15 to 20 years--a grim but seemingly realistic prospect in view of
the poor implementation and limited success of birth control efforts in
Bangladesh so far. The implications of such a rate of population growth for
1/ World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Table 17, pg. 158.



the country's development prospects are staggering. The density of population
on cultivable land would increase from 3.8 persons per acre at present to over
6.2 persons per acre by the end of the century. In a country where the main-
stay of the economy is agriculture and where food shortages are already serious,
the adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious. Annual foodgrain
requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption level of about
15.5 ounces per day, would increase from about 14 million tons at present to
roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. Domestic production would almost
have to double from its record level of about 11.9 million tons (net of seed,
feed and waste) achieved in FY78 to meet this requirement. Substantial in-
creases in cropping intensity and in yields will be required, therefore, even
to maintain food consumption at a subsistence level.
22.       A significant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic
needs and the provision of improved public services will also be extremely
difficult to achieve without a drastic reduction in the rate of population
growth. By the same token, it will become increasingly impossible to educate
the rapidly growing number of people and to provide gainful and productive
employment opportunities for them. In recognition of these factors, high
priority is being given by the Government to improving the performance of its
family planning program.
23.       Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed on the
satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate
clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The planners
recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and other
targets, but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their
achievement.
24.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improve-
ments can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project
implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
25.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven



- 8 -
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, 42 new credits have been approved, totaling US$1,195.7
million; of these, US$575 million have been for program credits (eight import
program credits and one fertilizer imports credit). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of April 30, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and one investment for a shipbuilding and engi-
neering company has been approved.
26.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 1/  (If workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.) While
the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 bil-
lion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of
IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
27.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(14 of the 30 new projects approved since independence, and one fertilizer
imports credit). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including in particular the provision of adequate
fertilizer supplies to farmers. Emphasis is also given to the provision of
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage facilities, which
all tend to increase the demand for fertilizer.
28.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight import program
credits approved to date. For the reasons summarized in paragraphs 25-27 of
the President's Report for the Eighth Imports Program Credit (Credit No. 980-
BD) program lending will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, and from DFC and
small-scale industry projects. IFC is currently in the process of identifying
further suitable investment opportunities.
29.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower is also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training. IDA should continue to
provide assistance to critical infrastructural areas such as transportation,
energy and power, and telecommunications. A first power project was approved
in late FY79 and a second highway project was approved during FY80. A fer-
tilizer transportation project is currently under consideration.
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



- 9 -
30.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were
serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Some progress has
been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture is improving.
IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervi-
sion in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing
assistance both under specific projects and under three technical assistance
credits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving planning,
project preparation and implementation capabilities.
31.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors--such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment--where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
32.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
Sector Overview
33.       Primary education in Bangladesh is influenced by constraints that
affect the education system generally. Thus, at the primary level, there
is a significant disparity in enrollment ratios between the sexes; 75% are
males and 25% are females. Also, a high proportion, about 30% of primary age
children, never go to school. In the past, primary education has received
consistently a smaller share of the education budget than secondary and post-
secondary levels, though GOB intends to reverse this situation in the Second
Five-Year Plan. The opportunities for education, particularly basic education,
are limited; this has resulted in Bangladesh achieving only a 22% literacy
rate. The secondary and tertiary levels of education have been expanded to
help meet the need for more educated manpower. Post independence achievements
have also included expansion of engineer and technician education and train-
ing, greater attention to agricultural research, university education and
extension training and an inroad on the void in management training. These
are noteworthy accomplishments in view of the economic, social and demographic
constraints under which the nation operates.
34.       About 8 million children, about 70% of the relevant age group (ages
6-10), are enrolled in primary schools. Enrollments are relatively high in
Grade 1 (3.4 million) but drop substantially by Grade 5 (0.7 million). There
are about 40,000 primary schools, about 85% of them in rural areas. These



- 10 -
schools typically have about 200-250 students and 4 teachers each. Adminis-
trative responsibility for the schools rests with the Department of Public
Instruction (DPI) of the Ministry of Education (MOE). There are less than
100 officials at the national and divisional level responsible for planning
and implementation of policy, curriculum, and the development of teaching
materials for primary education. Over 150,000 teachers are assigned to
primary schools. They are trained at 48 Primary Teacher Training Institutes
(PTI) that have a combined output of 7,200 per year. About 80% of the PTI
accommodation is reserved for in-service training of teachers without previous
training. About 38 of the PTI's have residential accommodation to cater for
females. The primary school curriculum has recently been revised and new
texts have also been developed by the Government Textbook Board. Bengali,
used by over 95% of the population, is the language of instruction.
Main Issues in Primary Education
35.       Unequal Opportunity.  During the period 1973-78, primary school
enrollment expanded at an average annual rate of 4.2% to raise the overall
enrollment ratio from 58% to 71%; however, substantial inequities in access
exist. The lack of educational opportunities for girls is reflected in their
low initial enrollment in primary schools (60% never enroll) and for rural
people generally by comparatively poor quality of schooling. The unequal
provision of facilities to the rural areas is reinforced by the unbalanced
distribution of teachers, with most trained and female teachers concentrated
in the urban areas and shortages of teachers in the rural areas. The oppor-
tunity cost of education to the rural family is a major factor contributing to
non-enrollment and dropout. Since the child is essential to the family's
labor force he/she may never be enrolled or cannot be spared to continue with
schooling especially during the cropping seasons.
36.       Wastage.  High dropout rates contribute to overall low enrollment
levels. Between 1973 and 1978, more than half the students who entered grade
1 dropped out before grade 5. The highest dropout rate occurred before grade
3. However, despite high drop out rates between grades 1 and 3, class size
in these grades are still large (50-60) because of high initial enrollment and
high repetition. High dropout rates between lower grades (1-3) means that
classes are small (10-20) in the higher grades. This leads to an inefficient
use of teachers.
37.       Low Quality.  A critical factor causing the high dropout rate is
the poor quality of instruction and the resulting low learning achievement.
In many schools, the physical conditions are oppressive and discipline harsh,
discouraging attendance and encouraging dropouts. In addition, high rates
of teacher absenteeism, a reflection of lax supervision, contribute to indif-
ference among both students and parents. Teachers tend to be ineffective
in covering the curriculum because they lack proper training and they use
inappropriate instructional materials. A conventional measure of school
quality is the percentage of teachers with less than full training. In
Bangladesh, 33% of the teachers (public and private) are not trained and the
67% who have received training usually have received inadequate training. The
consequences of poor quality of the instruction together with low enrollments
and heavy dropout mean that the primary education system does not adequately
provide functional literacy for the coming generation.



- 11 -
38.       Financial Constraints.  A program to improve and expand primary
education will clearly be expensive. Primary education is expected to be
given the highest priority in the education sector under the Second Five-
Year Plan. The draft Second Five-Year Plan indicates that the share of the
education allocation going to the primary level over the five-year plan period
will increase from 13% in the 1973-80 period to around 43%.  Te plan would
include provision to meet the expected increase recurrent costs needed to
hire additional staff and maintain facilities as agreed under the proposed
project. The Government is aware that resources available to meet the
increased recurrent costs of primary education are likely to grow at a lower
rate than enrollment. This is a constraint which may hinder the replication
of the proposed project to cover the rest of the country in the 1985-90
period.  However, it is estimated that if the Government is able to resist
pressures to divert resources from the education sector to other sectors,
and from the primary level to the higher levels, nationwide replication of
this project could be achieved by 1990.
Government Education Plans and Policies
39.       Under the previous development plans (First Five-Year Plan FY74-
FY78) and the Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80), education spending was directed at:
(a) improving the quality of education by increasing the number of trained
teachers at the primary and secondary levels; and (b) the expansion of facil-
ities to increase student enrollments at the primary, vocational and technical
levels. Under both plans, implementation has been generally unsatisfactory,
due to financial, social and economic constraints. Important physical targets
were not met. Of 20,000 primary school buildings included in the two plans,
only 10,000 were completed at the end of the Two-Year Plan period due to
resource constraints and the diversion of a substantial amount of funds from
the primary subsector to the universities.
Second Five-Year Plan
40.       The Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85) is expected in July 1980, and
its education policy is expected to concentrate on (a) broadening the base of
primary education; (b) linking the education system to employment; (c) making
science and agriculture basic components of the education system; (d) accel-
erating the growth of women's education; and (e) reducing the rural-urban
gap in the provision of educational services. The Plan is also intended to
reverse the recent trend of progressive diversion of resources from primary
to post-primary education. The introduction of Universal Primary Education
(UPE) would be accorded a high priority among the Plan objectives. Conse-
quently, the share of primary education is expected to increase to about
US$270 million out of total education allocation of US$620 million compared
with US$37 million allocated in the First Five-Year Plan, and US$1.5 million
in the Two-Year Plan. The UPE program has as its major target the enrollment
of about 13 million children in primary grades 1-5 by 1985. This would
represent 91% of the total 6-11 age group. In addition to the increase in
enrollment, the other priority areas in the Plan for primary education are:
the increased employment of female teachers, the establishment of a primary
school supervision system (2,000 inspectors), decentralization of administra-
tion and management, the construction of 2,000 new primary schools and the
renovation of 10,000 substandard schools. According to the draft Plan, the



- 12 -
Government would also supply free textbooks to about 13 million students
(US$22.0 million) and free uniforms to 5 million girls during the five year
period (US$6.0 million). Overall, the level of education spending proposed
under the Plan would rise to above 2% of GNP.
41.       These educational objectives and priorities, particularly the
special emphasis on increasing female participation, supervision and teacher
training are sound but considering past performance will be difficult to
achieve in the five year period (FY81-85). The achievement of primary educa-
tion targets will depend on the Government's ability (a) to provide the neces-
sary funds; (b) to reduce the capital cost of constructing schools by mobiliz-
ing resources at the village level; and (c) to reduce the per student cost of
teachers' salaries.
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training
42.       Three IDA credits totalling US$58 million have been made to the
education sector in Bangladesh. The first Education credit (US$21 million,
made in 1973 Credit No. 407-BD) helped finance completion of the construc-
tion of the Bangladesh Agricultural University and building and equipping of
technical institutes; the total cost of the project was US$36.3 million. The
second credit was an Agricultural and Rural Training Credit (US$12 million,
made in 1976 Credit No. 621-BD) aimed at expanding and improving agricultural
and rural training; the total cost of the project was US$16.5 million. The
third was a Vocational Training Credit (US$25 million, made in 1979 Credit No.
912-BD) aimed at expanding and improving vocational training; the total cost
of the project was US$32.4 million.
43.       The first two projects have had implementation problems mainly due
to (i) shortages of local funds; (ii) periodic shortages of construction
materials; (iii) problems with civil works contractors; and (iv) the under-
utilization of technical assistance. The Vocational Training Credit was
declared effective in November 1979, and is showing steady progress. In
addition to project activities, the Bank has completed a major sector study
in education and training (the Education and Training Sector Memorandum of
June 1978 - Report 2037-BD).
44.       Hitherto, IDA funds in the sector have been concentrated in voca-
tional training (47%) and agriculture (40%) and have been devoted mostly to
the upper and intermediate levels of the system. The proposed fourth project
focusing on primary education needs thus represents a shift in the emphasis
of Bank Group education lending to Bangladesh.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project was identified and prepared by the Government with the
assistance of UNESCO. The project was appraised in January/February 1980.
A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2964-BD, dated April 23) is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington D.C. on May 19-21, 1980; the Bangladesh dele-
gation was led by Mr. K.F. Rahman, Secretary, Ministry of Education.



- 13 -
Objectives and Scope
46.       The proposed project would constitute the first phase towards the
achievement of universal primary education. The four major objectives of
the proposed project are:
(a) increased access to primary schools, especially for girls
and for rural poverty groups (landless). This would be
achieved by providing (i) additional school facilities
and materials; (ii) more female teachers; (iii) enhanced
supervision to improve teacher performance and attendance;
and (iv) for increased community participation in the manage-
ment and control of schools to mitigate parental indifference;
(b) reduced wastage, (dropout and repetition) through improved
facilites, materials and instruction and by working with
parents and community leaders through School Management
Committees;
(c) improved quality of instruction to attain higher and more
lasting pupil achievement levels through (i) regular inser-
vice teacher training in methods of teaching and classroom
management designed to make better use of school time; and
(ii) more effective supervision aimed at reducing teachers'
absenteeism; and
(d) reducing costs by increasing the student teacher ratio, and
by having larger class and school sizes.
Experimentation and evaluation would also be features of the project. Com-
parisons would be made between project and nonproject schools to evaluate
possible solutions to a number of persistent problems in primary education,
i.e., causes of non-enrollment and dropout, teacher absenteeism, and low
learning achievement of pupils. The project would also test whether the
provision of free textbooks and uniforms to disadvantaged students would
encourage enrollment and discourage dropouts. It would also develop local
research capability through the involvement of Bangladesh research staff in
project activities, thus preparing for subsequent phases of the long-term
primary education improvement program and replication in the rest of the
country.
47.       The proposed project would affect all of the existing 4,033 govern-
ment schools in 40 selected thanas (about 10% of the country) which at present
enroll about 736,000 pupils and employ about 16,800 teachers. After a prep-
aratory period of about 1 year (September 1980-December 1981) during which
the initial training, materials development and collection of baseline evalua-
tion data would be completed, implementation (i.e. construction materials
provision and training) would take place during the next four years January
1982 through December 1985, during which time the impact of the various
project components would be measured and evaluated. A follow-up period of
six to nine months will allow for final analysis of the results and making



- 14 -
recommendations. The proposed project will thus have an impact beyond the
40 thanas in the project area.
Project Components
48.       Teacher Service (US$2.6 million 1/).  The proposed project would
strengthen the teacher service by providing a new pattern of intensive
inservice teacher training by the strengthening of primary teacher training
institutes and the Academy for Fundamental Education and by adding a new
category of assistant teachers.  The project would finance the salaries of
about 500 assistant teachers (mostly women) to test the feasibility of employ-
ing persons in their own communities. The use of teaching staff with less
formal qualifications represents a promising cost reducing factor and a
practical means of supplying female teachers in rural areas. Currently, most
trained female teachers are recruited and trained in urban areas and are not
prepared to leave them. Training financed under the project would consist
of preservice training of assistant teachers and inservice training of about
16,500 teachers. The project would improve both the pattern and content of
training. The training would focus on more effective teaching methods,
including management of multigrade classes, improving school/community rela-
tionships and adapting the curriculum to the pupils' needs. The project would
finance trainers services, travel and per diem allowances of trainees and
renovation of academic facilities, expansion of student hostels and equipment
for 8 Primary Teacher Training Institutes.
49.       Academy for Fundamental Education (AFE).  The Academy is a national
training institution, located at Mymensingh, which acts as a forum for the
examination and discussion of various primary education issues. Under the
project, AFE would provide the essential link between curriculum development
and the Primary Teacher Training Institutes (PTI), and would offer professional
guidance and training for primary education administrators, PTI staff, Thana
Education Officers, and Assistant Thana Education officers. AFE would be
strengthened under the project which would provide finance for the institution
and will include (a) salary support for incremental staff; (b) improvements
to existing academic buildings; (c) provision of staff housing and student
hostels; and (d) purchase of library books, equipment and materials.
50.       Supervision (US$620,000).  The present primary education system
lacks adequate supervision at the thana level resulting in low teacher moti-
vation and performance, and a high level of teacher absenteeism. The proposed
project would seek to improve supervision by creating positions of assistant
thana education officers who would be responsible for primary school super-
vision. The selection of assistant thana officers (ATEOs) would be in
accordance with criteria agreed between the Government and IDA (Section 3.08
of the Development Credit Agreement).  Two hundred and fifty assistant thana
officers would be recruited from among successful primary teachers with four
to five years of experience. The ATEOs recruitment schedule has been agreed
with GOB. The project would thus create career promotion opportunities in
primary education that allow teaching staff to progress to supervisory posi-
tions. The supervisors would receive appropriate training in particular
1/   This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays exclude contingencies.



- 15 -
methods of improving attendance and enrollment, and expanding community
participation in school development.
51.       Learning Materials and Equipment (US$5.1 million).  The project
would provide financing for textbooks, teacher's guides, library books,
school equipment and free uniforms to girls from poor/landless 'anilies
attending primary schools in the 40 thanas. To avoid any stigma, Government
plans to require uniforms for all girls in UPE designated primary schools.
The impact of free uniforms on the enrollment of girls in primary schools
would be evaluated after two years.
52.       Primary Schools Buildings (US$19.6 million).  The project would
finance construction, furnishing and equipping of additional classrooms at
about 1,300 existing schools (mostly 4-classroom additions) including pro-
vision of latrines and tubewells. About 6,455 classrooms would be built
to accommodate about 322,000 additional students.
53.       Staff Training (US$3.7 million).  Successful implementation of the
project would depend on the training of project personnel. Accordingly, an
extensive training program for about 17,120 staff is proposed. Initially
about 70 project personnel (trainers, research and administrative staff)
would receive training (part of it overseas); training will include oppor-
tunity to observe, and gain first-hand knowledge and experience of success-
ful primary systems elsewhere. Other teacher trainers and non-teaching staff
(220) would receive local training by the overseas-trained group and together
these two trained groups would be responsible for large scale training of
teachers, assistant teachers, thana education officers, assistant thana
education officers and field research staff. Training would be provided to
key teaching and supervisory staff who will have been selected before credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). The
number of staff to receive the initial training will be about seventy
Project Administration, Evaluation and Experimentation
54.       Project Administration.  Under the proposed project, a permanent
Project Implementation Unit would be established within the Directorate of
Primary Education which together with the seven regional branches (Regional
Project Units (RPU)) would manage the implementation of all physical compon-
ents. They would also be responsible for the evaluation, research and experi-
mentation aspects of the project. Financing would include construction,
furnishing and equipping of offices for the Regional Project Units as well
as equipment and salaries for key staff in the Project Implementation Unit
and its branches.
55.       Evaluation.  Measurements would be made of improvements, parti-
cularly in female enrollments and achievements, and cost reductions achieved
through provision of such project elements as appointment of assistant tea-
chers, better teacher training, improved supervision, and greater parental
involvement with schools management. Baseline measurements would be collected
during the first year of the project of factors such as population, enrollment
and attendance; tests of pupil achievements and attitudes, and of teacher
competence; teachers' and parents' attitudes, and costs. Results of the



- 16 -
project would be compared with a sample of nonproject schools. Measurement
and analysis of project results would be conducted by local and expatriate
research specialists.
56.       Experimentation:  Project IMPACT. 1/  The project would finance an
experiment, using an adaptation of Project IMPACT, in about 18 schools in the
project area. Project IMPACT teaching differs from conventional systems in
that it relies on the use of programmed teaching and learning materials with-
out the direct intervention of teachers. Teachers (instructional supervisors)
act as guides, monitors and managers and coordinate the work of student or
community aides to achieve a cost effective ratio of student to teachers of
up to 100:1. The project IMPACT system has been successfully introduced in
the Philippines and in Indonesia.
57.       Technical Assistance (US$1.9 million).  Under the project, technical
assistance would be provided to support (a) the planning and organization of
training; (b) experimentation; and (c) evaluation. A total of 64 man-years
of consultant services would be provided of which 14 man-years would be
expatriates. The signing of these consultancy contracts would be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the DCA). Most of the local
assistance would be involved in experimentation and evaluation, with limited
support (4 man-years) for training activities. Local and expatriate consul-
tants would be recruited whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to GOB and IDA.
58.       Project Related Studies (US$250,000).  The proposed project
would finance four studies intended to assist in the development of:
(i) curriculum development; (ii) examination of educational costs and finances;
(iii) developing plans for a National Institute for Education Administration
and Management; and (iv) developing improved systems for production and
distribution of textbooks.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$52.4 million equiv-
alent, inclusive of duties and taxes (US$8 million). Allowances of US$2.8
and US$13.9 have been made for physical and price contigencies, respectively.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$15.8 million or about 36%
of total project costs net of taxes and duties. A summary table of the esti-
mated costs is shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Consultants costs are
estimated at about US$6,250 per man-month for foreign consultants and US$700
per man-month for local specialists. Training costs are based on detailed
breakdowns of training requirements. Architectural design services are esti-
mated at about 2% of construction costs. The cost of staff salaries is based
on applicable government salary scales. The proposed IDA credit of US$40.0
million amounts to about 90% of total net project costs and would finance 100%
of the foreign exchange costs and 85% of local costs; the Government would
finance the remaining US$4.4 million. The financing of 90% of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties is recommended because of the special
1/   Instructional Management by Parents, Community and Teachers.



- 17 -
nature of the project; it is specifically geared to a redirection of educa-
tional priorities towards an improvement in meeting the basic educational
needs of disadvantaged groups - women and the poorest. A high level of IDA
financing will help ensure that this high priority objective of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan will be financed even if resource constraints
force cutbacks ia pursuing other targets of the plan. IDA financing of incre-
mental salaries and allowances is justified in view of the projects develop-
mental character as part of an effort to develop a more effective primary
school system. Two of the most important project inputs rely on the creation
of new teaching and supervisory posts, which would be established and financed
on a declining basis under the project and will become permanent positions
upon successful completion of the project. The approval by the Government of
a project proforma would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01
(d) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
60.       The first IDA-financed education project in Bangladesh suffered
implementation delays of about 2-1/2 years. In the Second and Third Education
Projects efforts to strengthen implementation capacity and to avoid repetition
of earlier experiences were partially successful. These included establishment
of a revolving fund facility through which a steady flow of Government funds
to the project was to be assured, specialized training for project staff inc-
luding a Bank sponsored implementation seminar and intensified project super-
vision. In the proposed project further measures to be introduced would
include appointing higher caliber implementation staff; maximizing services
of architectural consultants; building up the in-house capabilities of the
Project Unit Staff for continuous maintenance and upgrading existing facilites;
and early signing of contracts with technical assistance agencies and architec-
tural consultants. The Government would again maintain a revolving fund to
ensure prompt payments for expenditures incurred under the project (Section
3.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). Establishment of this fund
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
61.       The project would seek to build a permanent and improved implemen-
tation capacity within the primary education subsector. For this reason,
emphasis would be placed on the organizational structure of the Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) and on its functions in relation to the Directorate of
Primary Education (DPE) and to regional authorities. A central Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) and seven regional project units (RPUs) would be estab-
lished. The PIU would be formed under the direction of the Director of Primary
Education who would assume overall responsibility for project implementation
and would be in full control of all project activities. Staffing of the PIU
would include one deputy, one information officer, administrative/accounting
staff, and three section chiefs in charge of training programs, evaluation
and research, and physical implementation. Each of these sections would be
adequately staffed with qualified personnel including specialists, engineers,
procurement officers, accountants and field staff.
Training, Experimentation and Evaluation
62.       Training plans, together with preliminary arrangements for evalua-
tion have been completed by the Government. The Project Evaluation Unit (PEU)



- 18 -
in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would have responsibility for pre-
paring research and evaluation plans, including benchmark studies of student
achievement and related socio-cultural behavioral measurements. The Gov-
ernment would select key staff for training in (i) project management;
(ii) teacher training; (iii) education administration; and (iv) research
and evaluation in accordance with a plan agreed between GOB and IDA (Section
3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement). The proposed project would develop
the capacity of not only the Project Evaluation Unit, but also local university
faculties of education and institutes of educational research, by training
their staff in experimentation and evaluation.  The Government would prepare
and send to IDA for comment (a) before the start of the first school year in
which the experimentation program is to be carried out a report on baseline
measurements and results achieved; (b) within four months of the end of each
of the four school years of experimentation, detailed annual reports on
results of project experimentation; and (c) at the end of the project, a
project completion report showing the results of the project (Section 3.12
of the Development Credit Agreement).
Physical Design
63.       Most school buildings in rural areas are simple and rudimentary.
Because present models do not appear to satisfy all aspects of functional and
economic design, the Government has agreed that the PIU, in consultation with
the Association and consultants, would study various school building design
alternatives, taking into account the educational and financial implications
of new designs on a national scale (Section 3.11(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
School Location Planning and Site Selection
64.       All project school sites were determined by a school mapping exer-
cise. Most project schools are existing and the sites of these schools are
considered suitable. New sites would have to be acquired only in cases where
existing schools are too close to each other. New school sites would be
selected on basis of appropriate mapping criteria aimed at achieving even
classroom distribution based on population density (Sections 3.09 of Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
65.       Implementation Schedule.  Project implementation is expected to
take about 6 years and be completed by September 1986. The preparatory
period is expected to last until December 1981. This period would include:
(a) initial training; (b) teaching materials development; and (c) preparatory
work for evaluation and experimentation. The main project period would last
from January 1982 to December 1985. The final evaluation phase would last
about 9 months beginning about January 1986.
Procurement
66.       Previous experience with education projects in Bangladesh indicates
that the small size of contracts for civil works and furniture, the geographic
dispersion of school sites and the competitiveness of the local construction
industry would preclude any meaningful foreign competition in the bidding.



- 19 -
Contracts for civil works and furniture (totalling about US$20.5 million)
would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding in accordance with government procurement procedures in which foreign
firms would be allowed to participate. Direct labor ("force account"), managed
by the School Management Committees and the Regional Project Units, is expected
to be used at about 10% of project sites or wherever appropria.  for all minor
works and repairs, including the construction of simple furniture provided the
total amount of such minor works does not exceed US$3 million equivalent
(Schedule 3, Section C(3) of Development Credit Agreement). Self-help con-
struction would be explored by the PIU wherever conditions are conducive to
such methods. Because of the small size of individual contracts, prior IDA
review of civil works contract awards would not be required.
67.       Contracts for equipment and vehicles exceeding US$50,000 (about
US$2.1 million including contingencies) 1/ would be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines. Local manufacturers participating in ICB would be given a preferential
margin of 15% over competing imports, or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower. Contracts for equipment and vehicles which cannot reason-
ably be grouped in packages of US$50,000 (up to US$2 million) would be awarded
without prior IDA review on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with local bidding procedure. Where competitive bidding is in-
appropriate, or is not expected to yield lower prices than local shopping,
sundry equipment could be procured by inviting bids from not less than three
different suppliers subject to a maximum value of US$15,000 for each such
contract and an aggregate total of US$100,000. Textbooks (US$3.7 million)
and girls' uniforms (US$3.6 million) would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with standard government procedures.
Disbursements
68.       Disbursements under the proposed credit would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of the cif cost of directly imported building materials, equipment
and furniture; (b) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured build-
ing materials, equipment and furniture; (c) 100% of the expenditures on expert
services and consultants, fellowshiops and special studies; (d) 80% of local
expenditures on civil works including supervision services; (e) 80% of expen-
ditures on school textbooks and school uniforms for girls; (f) 80% of expen-
ditures on staff training and an average of 80% of expenditures on staff
salaries on a declining basis starting at 100% during CY1981 and ending in
CY1985.
Benefits
69.       The proposed project is expected to lead to improvements in primary
education in terms of increased enrollments, higher teaching efficiency and
learning achievements, and cost reductions. In the project area, access to
primary education would be extended to an additional 75,000 boys and 100,000
girls, most of whom would probably not go to school without the project.
1/ Subsequent statements in this paragraph include contingencies.



- 20 -
Moreover, as a result of measures taken under the project the current dropout
rate of over 60% between Grades 1 and 5 is expected to fall to less than
20%. Consequently, an additional 60,000 boys and 80,000 girls would complete
Grade 5. Without the project, it is expected that only about 40% of boys and
20% of girls would achieve literacy, while with the project these figures would
more than double. The project is expected also to lead to qualitative gains
in pupil learning achievements, not only in terms of literacy, but in respect
of numeracy and greater understanding of science and social affairs relevant
to village life. Starting with an achievement test that would be administered
during the first year of the project, the evaluation element of the project
would provide a means to assess possible gains periodically during the project
period so that mid-project corrections and additions could be made.
70.       The project is expected to retard the trend toward higher aggregate
recurrent costs of primary education caused by population increase through
reducing the per capita costs, reduced dropout rates by use of larger classes
and school sizes, and the use of lower-paid but trained assistant teachers.
The use of Project IMPACT (which has proved effective in reducing unit costs
elsewhere) would also be tested. More intensive supervision of primary
schools, while adding slightly to costs, is expected to result in a more
effective utilization of staff and facilities and thus to be cost effective.
71.       While the above benefits would be realized only in the project area,
the project is replicable. Further, the establishment of a Project Evaluation
Unit as a permanent part of the Directorate of Primary Edcuation would develop
a national evaluation capability and would enable the Government to base future
investments in the primary subsector on tested grounds.
72.       Ultimately, the success of the project must be measured by the bene-
fits of primary education to the individual and to society as a whole. Studies
in neighboring countries have revealed the benefits of a more literate and
numerate populace in terms, inter alia, of higher agricultural productivity,
greater acceptance of population control measures, and a better understanding
of nutrition and health practices.
Risks
73.       The project faces implementation risks of largely a management
nature. It is complex and while the proposed program is confined initially
to only 40 thanas, coordination and management will be difficult because of
poor communications in rural areas. Measures have been taken to minimize
these risks including: (a) establishment of a central Project Implementation
Unit and seven Regional Project Units, one for each of the seven administra-
tive divisions covered; (b) delegation of implementation responsibility to
School Management Committees and field officers; (c) provision of special
training for implementation staff before the project becomes effective; and
(d) provision of technical assistance (local and foreign) for general project
management and for training and project evaluation. In addition, the high
priority which Government places on its proposed universal primary education
policy should, if adequate funds are allocated to cover the increase in
recurrent costs, lessen some of the implementation problems.



- 21 -
74.       There is also a risk that poverty and other socio-cultural influences
and attitudes such as the traditional reluctance of rural parents to educate
their children, particularly girls, could, despite project inputs, prevent
achievement of the increased school attendance and reductions in dropout rates
expected as a consequence of carrying out the project. It is believed, how-
ever, that by involving parents and the community in the primary educational
process as would be done under the project, traditional attitudes would change
thereby reducing the risk to an acceptable level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III and include the following additional conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the establishment of a revolving fund satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.01(b)(i) of the DCA); (b) the signing of technical assistance
contracts (Section 5.01(b) of the DCA); (c) the selection of key training
and evaluation staff (Section 5.01(c) of the DCA); and (d) the approval of
a Project Proforma (Section 5.01(d) of the DCA).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would cornply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommended that the Executive Directors approve the propose'
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 9, 1980



- 22 -                                           ANNEX I
TALE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCl. INDICATORS DATA SliS
ALUGLADLSeiic aR cz GouPs (ADJsTz  AMIAC
LAND AREA (TTOUSAND So. DI.)                                               - MOST R     (A0J 'ST  ATSE
TOTAL            144.0                                                 SAME       SAMZ     NEU  81GM
AGRICULTURAL     99.9 gDST RcUT                                      GEGEA.PIC   INCOHE       INCOMZ
10   1b 970 lb ESTMATE /            UEGION .L   GWDUP Lj   GROUP s
CNF PER CAPITA (USs)                 40.0        60.C      90.0           191.1      209.6      467.5
EIIZ; .  SUMPTION PEM CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..          ,.      33.0           69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TEAR (MILLIONS)    51.4        68.3      81.2
URN POPuLATION (PreCmEN  Or TOTAL) 5.2          7.6       9.3            13.2      16.2        2A.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YeAR 2000 (HILLIONS)                    145.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      334.0
R  STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2165.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PEU SQ. IN.                     357.0       474.0    564.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
Po SQ. XM. AGRIC3LTURL  MND    540.0        683.0    813.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                        44.3        46.4      46.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.0     51.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YES. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6      3.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCElT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.9       2.5             2.4       2.4         2.7
URAN                               .          6.7       6.3            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDZ BIRTH RATE (PeR THOUSAND)    49.0        48.0      46.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PIE  TOUSAND)    23.0        20.0      18.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5         3.1       3.2             3.2       2.9         2. 7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       345.6   1103.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        8.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND VUTRIrTION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        107.3       101.0      98.0           99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUrPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  S9.o0f      89.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
PBOTEINS (GRAMS PUR DAY)         42.6f         ..      58.5           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.2f         ..       8.0            10.4      13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0        25.0      23.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
H'ALT8
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEAS)   42.0         45.0      47.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
MHOUSAND)                            ..       153.0    140.0              *-      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ^.        45.0      53.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                              .         13.0      15.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..        47.0      55.0           20.1       15.8        2L.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0       5.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              .           ..      40.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               .                                  2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN             .       7600.0  11350.0         7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        .      72030.0/& 53700.0        12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000.0Lh    812.00/h  4430.0         2738.4    1417.1        726.5
IRSAN                              ..         ..        .,              ,.      197.3       272. 7
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              .      2 2;45.9    1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..             ..        4.8        27.5
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             ..        5.3         5.4
NaBAN                              ..          .         ..             ..        .9          5 
RURAL                              ..         .-        ..                                    35
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTA L                             ..                   ...                        ...
' RBAN                                        ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                    ..             ..
ACCES3 TO ELEC-RICITT (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          .3 .                      . .                 28.i
JRBAN                              .           ..       3.              ,8                   45. 1
RFRAL                              ..           .        ..              .    .               9. 9



-23 -                                              MANEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
BANGIADESII                    - MOST RECENT ESTlltATE )
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPEIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        61.0       83.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
IIALE                 66.0        80.0     106.0             74.9        79.1        87.3
FEMALE               26.0         42.0      60.0             43.7        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   8.0        19.0      i3.0             19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                  14.0        30.0      34.0             27.8        22.1        33.0
FYMALE                 1.0         8.0      11.O             10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.0       1.0              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        49.0       55.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDMARY                           ..        26.0       24.0              ..        21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACt RATE (PERCENT)        21.6/1         ..      22.0             25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4        0.4/i           2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERs PER THousAND
POPULATION                           ..         6.0         ..            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..               ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..               ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18516.0      23402.0   29900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5       17.0            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8        85.9       78.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
IDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3         3.5        7.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.6       34.4            35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 58.7        55.8       55.3            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               11.4        11.8       12.1             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4       1.3              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/i       16.7/k       ..               ..         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.57L       42.37k       ..               ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HiOUSEEOLDS    6.9 {       7.97i       ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.994       19.67k       ..               ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     110.0            86.5        99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      91.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..       91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..            50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0            44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       74.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless ocherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asia:  id  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  Ie  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  Av. 1961-65;  /g  Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /h  Govt. establishments
only;   i  1972;  /4  1963-64;  /k  1966-67;  /1  1962;  /I  1973.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL PBICATORS                                                              Page 5
Notes:  Although the data a-  d-me  from  ore  gene.rally judged the most anthoritati-e mdreib, it should also he octed ohot they  sy cot be inten--
tionh.i,y -op-oble het--  of the lack of standardized definitions snd conepts usd by differet coutslns on colleting the data. The data  c,nntees
usfu,l to descibe orders of magitude, indicate trends, and ch-mteine certain maJor difference  het-eenc-tr,e-
The adjusted group aveeges for eah indicator so, poplatiop-ceighted geometric mean, e-Iuding the eutreme  -alu- of the indicator snd the noot populsted
coutry in eah group.  Dne to lack of data, group averges of all indicators for Capital Surpi- Oil Epornters scd of indi-ator  of Acces  to Water  nd PEcrta
Dipoon~l,H_uing, income Distrihotion sod PFcerty foe other coutry groups ar  pcpultio--ceghted geomtric men-  nithout e..lusina of the -ctr-   -aloe  end
tie netipopulated,country    icetecveaeo  coutis  mn  the indicatrs dpensoncaihit  ofdtasd in ac.t uniform, cation must h  .-ci-ee
indicator At u time amog the coutry and refernegrus
LA  i(hu,sed eq.a.)                                                               kneAe....ena   srai  fnmlts)    oa.'sen   a  aa 
b l-Total surface are  cmWril.sg leand are  sad  miami4 eawr.we ofppl   ta,urn,adarlsevdbseradipals
Agr-lts±oal - Most reset estimate nf egrimult-aal are  paced tseroriig                  pWnemtages Of their reepetive pePAatims.,  eret. dispasal NW Lsin
or pesametlr for erops, patares  maket ad kitehe garde  .  t.                         the cllntlim  sad dispeal, mitt or mith-st tretint, uf ba  aserta
lie fale.                                                                             ab etentr ymte-harm. spates or the us  of pit rils  a  sable
0~~CA!M (USJ)- MEP per  apita estatas at osarrat market prisms                            inep9pe  pkwaicin  - Pepsaatlam  divided by  -she  of practiming pyiia
dildilitlUjFile eonmrsio  metud as  mrid bink Atlas (1976-78 basis);            jjaiIflhd ft- .  dJil sehaul an osaeerity renal.,
196o, 197o, and 1978 data.                                                            P.-Uatine me Mareb    Perso  - PapOaltiom  divided by matser of pr-ntciaig Male
af      COSIAWEIU  PER CAPITA - An-&sIa  onsuatim  of onerial emeg                     sand final  graha-te mrs,pratical masss, sad amistsstmas.
1g6ieWlii1jt.id1t&m, antral gs end tydro-, esolsa  mao -                          osltc           uet] adg-tta.ra, n  rrl- Ppoalatina (total, urba,
itesl   elstricity) in kiluesa  of ca.l equienlet per ..pita; 1960,                     sa   ua)drddb   hi  epni.ahre opitlhdsaalbei
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                    public. ad private gemar  and spen.iaind hustpital and rehaihitaina center.-
Hnspitala ar  netbhlismanti  peressetly staffed by at least onM. aacin
POPILATION AND PIPL.StAT.IStICSil                                                         Istablisheste proiding priacipally -ostudlalcar  ar    t Snuldd. Nasal
Petal  auslaiss. M-Pear(millons) - A. nf July i; 1960, 1970, sad                huspitls, Sn-erer  i-alud. health sad mdical cetera net permastly staffed
1977 data                                                                              by a pkbysl_e  (bet by a madinal asistant, nremid-ife  etc. ) tint offer
Urban insatip. (       -ecet o  ttal  - Patin of when in  ntal popaltice;                la-patient aeatu     ed p-uid. a liSted range of eadical fcilitisa.
dIffren  defnitons of'senaes maW affeet comparability of data                  AdV tmisin  .cosital Bed - Petal sober of adadasions tn or dia-harne  fro
s   -gouteces; i960, 1970, end .1975 data.                                         hnPtaeivddby the mor of nedi.
Ponsalt io  ProJections
~pg.jt4-inaa    S        - Curret populatins projentins are baed   KmIM IN
195totlpn   atin  by age end sn end their  -etality end fertility              Avrgdieo   nseldnrosprtsaea)-ttl,ubnsdrrl-
rats.Prjetion parmter  for motality rates -Wrise  of tbrsAhueodcnssso..ru   finlieanecsae  iigqatr   n
lees -sna  infe nupeotancy at birth increas Ing mmt  coutry's                their ala  -.al..  A hoarder orlodger may or say not he included in the
Per capita incoe1_ce, and female life eupecisy stbilising at                        hcue ld foe statistical purposee.
77.  yer.The paramters fo  fertility rate also have three level                   Average aehr of neens  errom'           total,  hen, end rura  - Average nuber
asuigdciein fertility accrding to incu  Is-e  end past                     uf perees per  romi            e,ad  rura  occupied covetional d-ellingn,
family alenaing  prorace -ah coutry is than assigned  on  oftih..e                  respectively.  D-Ptniag. euclde non-permanent strtues end unoccpied perto.
nine oskiatiom   of mortality end fertility treads for projection                 Access t  Electricity (Deresat of defas)-total,  -hen  an  rura  -Con
purposes.                                                                 vent~~Po  ionl  delasmtteetiiy  islvin   quarter  a. percenag  o
itatinnary ponlaticot -i On a  tticasry  popultion ater  is no growth                 void, urban, and rura  dflinga respectively.
since the birth raei qual to inn death rate, an  also the age
utructure rins coctt  This In achieved onlY after fertility rates               EIICATION
decline to the replac_et leve  of unit net reprodeation rate,  hta                AdZjusted tEnl11eat Ratios
each generation of   -e  replaces niself  -natly.  The stationar  pup-              Piayshol-ttl   al  n                  ae-  Gross total, mule and femee  nrll
iationeionsa.sestiated on the basie of the projected charateristics-n falgsa thepimr evla  percentages of respective primary
of the populatiun in the fea  200, an  the rote  f delian of fertility                echocl-age popultion; nomlyincludes childre  aged 6-11 year  hot
rate not replacmet level.                                                             adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for --utri- cith
hew stationar  ocolation is reactd - The year ten  statinna.ry populatine               unvra         ..uctiv  enrolmet may e...sad lI  percent nonc  s-e  pupls
sine has teen reahed.                                                                 br,hlm  or above the officil  vo  age.
Pcronition Denity                                                                                                    V.odayatol-toa,maeed yfsmn   - Compu~ted no ai.o-;. ort"oy
Per ou. hei -hd-yea  population per square hiluter (100 h.tectrs) of                    edcaio  rqure  at leat furpeae  f approced -pisY itotrutio-;
total area                                                                            proides general vntion1, orteachr traIning instrbct-on-  for popiln
Per o., to. agiulualln   - Computed an ahce for agricultural land                       usualy of 12 to 17 fears of age; correpodenc  c.ur.e. ..c g-neraly
only.. uludnd.
Populatio g Strutur  Inecot) - Children (c-1i years),  origaeVocational enrollmet (percent of aecndr   - V-1o-aIoa  inaiotlooti-i-cl,de
i1-hAgyar),t adrtired(h  years end ovr) apecngsof mid-year                           technicl -indutral  or otter pogrm   hi   operte independently ora
population; 1960, 19,70, and 1977 data,                                                 departmet_    fsecodary institutions.
Ponulation iroohRt  pret) -totl   Annua scooth rates of total mid-                       Nail-teaher ratio -  rimar   end secodar  - Total students r-1o1d in
year  upulaloen  or l5o-tc,1;660   -70,ad1 70f.                                 primay and seondary levels dicided by nuhrif teacher-c  tie vor
PovltinGoth Sate (percet) - urbanw  Annual grooth rates  f urban                   spendinglels
populations for 1950-o, 1907,ad 1970-75.                                               Adult literacy rate (percet) - Li terate mduitn  n.Ieto readand once) m
7CAd..Birth R.ta.Jyp.r.lyhoned) - Anua live births per thousad of aid-                    aperctage of total adult populati- aged 15 year  ed over.
yea   opltin  1             ,ad 19'77 data
Cr-de tet  Rt  prthuad) - Annua deaths Per thousend of mid-pea                      CiNSUPbseCG
poult1kiFI; 9WO7lL07iid 1977  at.Pasaenge Car  leer th-ued copulation) - Passenger va-  -opri-e atortr
Groan SProduntion  fate -dorA-g   nuber of.dsoaghtrs          n  vii  hea               seating less then eight persons; e-lden ambulance, heaer  and nilitary
in her normal reProutiveP peiod If   eeperiee  pre-et age-                            vehicle.
opecifi  fertility ratee; unudly five-yea  averges ending In 1960,                  Rndic Receivers (per ticuen  punnltion  - All types of revi-er  for r-di,
1970, nod I1975.                                                                      b_od_ats to geerl          .oioperthousand ofpopulation;  -ovlden ulicne
F-amly Plnuing - Aconptorn  Annua )thousadn) - Annual number of                         r-ci-reriooutri- and in years mie  r-giotenti-o of rauco octo  oni
accptors of birth-cotrol device  under aupice  of national family                     effect; data for recet year   _Y not be vop-1,bie sinc  0.-0  -onci
plannin  prgran.                                                                      abolished licensing.
Psll  PlaniNg - Users )eercst of mried mn.) - P-er..ntag  of surrbd                 Nv  -i-ovrs )crr thousad  -c1ultion) - TV r-oivro for b-vuo-u  to genera
wome  of child-hearig age (15-h4 yene)nb;       uebirth-control device                public pe  thousad popiuntiom;  -ccld-n unlice-ed TV revel i-r ivvc--trir-
to all -rried  -oe  in san  age group.                                                and in year  obey registration  of T  netn en       effect.
POOP APP IPTRPTCdPit                                                              of  daily eno-nral f  -  -it  iater.tnenae  defndu     ciodv1 pbiliv-ti-
Toden  f roodPonducIitprC iia(997110     Odno   erO  iadevted primeily to recording genraltens   It in v..sid-rd tc be "doily
annua  proucionofal fon            dte. Production  -lud- oced and                    if it appear  at leant four times o ure.
feed and in onaledar year basis.  Cowadities  ocr primary goods                      inm  Annual Atteadnoiper .Capitanrc Year  B- nd on ti  cus1bevofIvk
(eg. euh                                       dd ~t~Yg                                                                      _.~garcoc  intea-d of onga  chichar  eible and ootntnco.trisnts   oddrn   h   er,icnigamoio  to irivr.ncio..a.. no d mob I
(eg.cffee and tea or  eclded).  Aggregate production of eah coafy                   ui
Is hnned on nationa Ioeag pro~due ...toese' ighte.
Per canita -ucpy of c.or ..(percent of ru eeta      opted fro.                    IsBR PORCh
resgy equivalet of vet food supplies aailble in coutry Per -apita                 To-tallabor Forc  (othunnda  -F..tosovaly noti-e person, ilncldio  ar-c
per day.  Available suppliscopin.        omsi  prcductiou, im          es           force  mcd unolylod ht-coolding ho...e-i-e, etudeots, etc- Dfi it..i:o
eprts, and  hsngns oc otoch.  Set oPP1in nov lde aina  feed, ned,                 in v_iou. coutries ore oto omp-b1-.
quantItia used in food pocesing, and honors it distribution. Requ,ir-             F-aaIejperyet) - Femaleubo,r forve1 noP-rvetage of -t1n labor force
mas0cesimated by FAD lacd oc plhyniologi-1d cerd  for- ra                 illut__   P_rrc t) - lboc  ore_caring, forestry, hunting and
activity andhealth             -nirrn    cir-n-.ta1 temerstuc-, body neghtn,        fin    so_prcetage of total 1nhor forc.
ag  and sen dtribotlo-  of pcpulnti-, nod al11-ing 10 peroct for                 In,dustry (prcen.t) - Lab: rIforc  in ..mining,       , co tuoioo, nnfacturig and
n_nteat hou..ehold level,                                                           eletricity, cater end ga noper-etags of total labor force
Per capita npply of protein (grams Pr day) - Protein content of pr                  Participation Rate (percet) -total, mal  andl f-ale - Pnrt!icpc-o or
capit  ne .sp1l  of food p.r day. Ret supply of fmod is def'ined as                 activity rate- ar  coputed as total, sale, and f_ie lobor forc  no per-
ahov.-  Requir-et  for all cou.trie- established by U5SDA provide for a              _etagen of total, ane and femle populatiot of all mge  respectivly
minima  lIo-anc   of0A gram  cf totn1 protein pee day and 20 gSa   of               161, 190,ad 1975 data.  Then  ae            opartIcpation  rates reflecing
ani    and pulse prtein, of obich ii grm   should beanimal protein.                 nge-ceo stctureo   h  population, and 1o-g tiac tred.  A fenestistes
These standards are innr than those of 75 gcan  of total protein and                aefrom outio..a  sources.
23 gram  of animal protei  asanavrage for tic   rld, proposed by PAO              Dnnml  eoade..cY Ratio - Patio of population under 15 and 65 and ove  to
in the'hid  ord Foo  durey                                                          tie lebor force In age group of 15-6byers
Per capita pr tem suppl fro   anma and pulse - Proteio supply of food
derived feaimals and puI..ngam   e  da                                          IICOME PISTRIBLITION
Child (aee 1-u) MtltyPt  (per thounad)   An1 d-athn per thousand                      Percentage of Private ncme (both Incash end hind) - veeived by richest
inaegro _-byan  to childre  inti_g gop   o  motdee-                            5 pret, riin   1percet, poret -Pt p.r.et, mon pooret 40 percet
oping coutries data derived from life tahra                                           ofh households.
HEALTHR                                                                               POVERT TAPIET GROUIPS
Life    etnra    rh(er) -Avrage nuber of peac  of life                                Eutimated Absolute Povrty Ic-m  lece  (U$ per capita) - urban and rural-
Infant (Srtalit  Pae(chuad) - Annual death  of infats under- one                        nutritionall  adequate diet plu..e..u..tia1 coo-food requirenetn io not
yerof age per thousand live births,                                                  affordable.
Acces to Safe  ater (percet of"pplto              otl  ra,ad rura  -                  ctisated Relatirn Pove rty Inom  Leve (1$ eUS e var pita) - urban md rurl 
Sheetr ofPeol' itlubn   n  %rua   oith raoblacesto                                    ourl relative povertyinoeecls m-hIrd of averge per capita
eSe cater suppy  dnclud-e treated surac   ater  cc untreated hot                      personal incm  of the coactry. Urban lecelin derivedfrom the  -rura  leve
u-cotdainted nter  -oh an that from pctected borhboles, springs,                      nith ndjutn-t for higher cot of licong in-ubaarn.
and naitary melo) an peecetaen of  ber respective population.  In                   ietimatednplsticn delve Absniute PovryIcm-ee  E et) -  ranad
an uran aea n  ubli  foutain cc etandpost located not acre then                 mrura  - Percent of population (urbanan rural c-2      arc  nhout:     oc'
200 meer  from a house ma be coeidered as being atit  reasonble
Ioea   f   athoue   In rura  anu  reaonble aces   -Iud imply
thtto .oneife cc msers of tie hou..ehold do not have to spend a                                                        o-ic and lo-O1 Data Dicisi-n
dlapropurtic...te part of the day in fetching the family' 5 cater.. neds                                               P-oic Analysis and PoJeotion Department
August 1979



-25-
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:          89.5 million  (July 1980)
GNP Per Capita:     US$90 (FYS0)
Amount            Average Annual Increase (C)       Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US5          (in constant FY75 prices)               (in current prices)
Indicator                            in current prices)
FY79             FY60-70   FY70-7s   nY75-80   FY60        FY70       FY75      FY80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Lb                   9,512.5                 4.0      -0.6       6.3    100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Agriculture /b                            5,174.0                3.1       -1.3       4.3     59.9       56.9      63.6       51.9
Industry /b                               1,170.2                7.9       -3.2       8.9      7.7        9.6       8.6       12.5
Services 7b                               3,168.3                4.9        3.3       6.6     30.1       30.0      25.0       28.8
Consumption                                  9,187.5                4.4      -0.7       6.7      92.4      92.8     100.0      102.1
Gross investment                            1,330.0               10.9      -10.9      13.5       6.9      11.3       7..0      15.0
Exports of goods & nfs                         603.0               0.8      -11.7       4.3      10.0       8.3        3.1       7.1
Imports of goods & afs                      1,603.0                8.8      -12.0      14.4      9.3       12.5      10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                        465.0               26.5    -17.7         ...       0.9       6.1       0.9       -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75       FY79     FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Kerchandise exports                            603.0                                            100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                     217.0                                              41.9       31.4       36.0     30.1
Manufactures                                 386.0                                             58.1       68.6       64.0     69.9
Merchandise imports                         1,603.0                                             100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                        250.0                                             44.1        42.2      15.6      29.5
Petroleum                                   186.0                                               3.2       11.1      11.6      17.6
Machinery & equipment                       382.0                                              13.8        9.6      23.8      25.8
Other                                       785.0                                             38.9        37.1      49.0      27.1
FY74        FY75         mY76        FY77         FY78        FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                7.9661      8.8759      14.8521     15.4667      15.1215     15.2193
Export price iadex                                     104.6       132.9        108.7       117.7        136.7       168.9
Inport price index                                     156.9       215.4        195.8       189.1        180.2       214.2
Terms of trade index                                    66.7        61.7         55.5        62.2         75.8        78.9
As  GDM
(at current prices)
FY73       Fn75          FY77        FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                     5.0          5.4          9.5        10.3
Current expenditure                                                 6.5          4.5         7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         -1.5         +0.9        +1.7         +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                 8.8          3.1          9.8        11.4
Foreign financing                                                   7.1          2.4          7.8         8.5
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP grovth rate (%)                                                      4.2         -0.7            5.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                           1.5         -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
lb  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and  -ill not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
not available
not applicable
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 26 -
M^NCIJDE$H
BALANCE OF PAY0IENITS. EXTENAL CAPITAL AND DE8T
("Illon 1S in C*resac prises)
Actoafl                                                Prolected
FY74      FY75       1776       FY77      mY78       FY79       rY80       "81i    FY02         FY83
SAL.ANC! OF  PA0kr
N*e scport. of floods & serviceS                            -565.7    .696.4      847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Exports of goods & servwics                               418.6      502.7      507.6      610.0     643.0      819.0       993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
IMPorts of goods & servie*S                               984.3    1199.1    1355.0       950.3    1429.0    1684.0        2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Not transfers                                                  -         -          -          -         -
Current accont balnce                                      -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Direct private invsst_nt                                      .          -          -          -        12.0       15.0        20.0      25.0       30.0       35.0
11LT losos (not)                                             274.4     508.2      502.9      246.0      399.0     465.4       861.0     950.0      995.0    1145.0
Grsnts & grant-lile flows                                   347.0      395.6      264.0      229.7     186.1      495.2       504.5     810.0      950.0   100.0
Other capital flew. (oet)                                      2.0    -358.8      153.1    -216.1        14.0      13.4        98.0     -45.0      153.0       59.0
Change Ln reserves (- - increase)                            -57.8     151.3      -53.1       8o.7     -25.2    -124.0        136.0     -22.0      -71.0      -50.0
*nte.rmtionel r.serves (end of period)                      11-5.0     266.3      213.2    293.9       268.7      393.0       257.0     279.0      350.0     400.0
Reservsa as  months of imports of neat yer                    1.15      2.36       2.69       2.47      1.91       1.81        1.09      1.04       1.18       1.26
Actoel
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77      F78        FY79
GROSS DISBURSMYr0
Official grants                                              347.0      395.6      244.5      229.7     386.1      495.2
Gros disbrsanants of I(T loT Is                              285.1      529.1      569.3      276.1     434.4      020.8
Conccssional                                                  201.5     468.0      538.9      244.7     399.8      500.3
lilgteral                                                    S2.4      305.6      357.3     117.3      237.3      226.8
IDA                                                          51.0      112.5      128.2      86.1       88.2      152.3
Other moltil&tor.l                                           68.1       49.9       53.4      41.3       74.3      121.0
Non-concssionoal                                              83.7       61.2       30.5       31.5      34.5       20.4
Official eport credits                                       40.6       45.3       16.5       4.2        1.7        3.3
IJRD                                                                                                     -
Other  oltilatrral                                            5.4        0.3        1.2       0.5        0.5        0.1
Privats                                                      37.7       15.6       12.8       26.8      32.3       17.0
EXTU.IAL DEBT
Debt oocstsoding  nd dlsbsreed (and of period)               490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2081.8    3005.1
Official                                                    383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1901.8    2442.3    2856.4
I.RD                                                                   04.9       54.9      54.9       54.9       54.9
iDA                                                        105.6      255.3      379.8     465.9      554.2    706.7
Other                                                      277.7      930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
ftiveCe                                                     107.3      118.3      104.7      116.3     139.4      148.7
nodisbursed Debt                                             590.2    1033.2       952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service paymots                                     18.0      31.0       88.3       58.5      67.4       95.4
Interdst                                                      7.3       10.1       21.9      28.4       32.1       40.1
psyunc  as s% eaports                                           4.3       6.2       17.4        9.6      10.5       11.6
payents as . GNP                                               0.2        0.3        1.3        0.9       0.9        1.2
Average interest rat. on n.v loans (2)                          3.2       2.0        1.7        1.6        1.5       1.7
Official                                                       2.9       2.0        1.6        1.5       1.4        1.6
private                                                        4.6       2.3        7.8        6.4       6.2        6.1
Averege eturity of ne  loans (Years)                           25.7      35.5       41.7       40.1       37.8      34.7
Official                                                      28.3      35.8       42.2      40.8       38.1       35.1
private                                                       13.4      15.2       11.3       11.0       9.5       14.8
SAM GROUP EDOSURE (%
IBRD Do/total DOD                                                        4.0        3.0         2.6      2.1         1.8
IBRD disbursmnts/total gross disburseesuts                                                      -        -           -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                                                1.8         5.6      0.3         4.0
IDA 3D0/total DOD                                              21.5     18.7       21.0        22.5     21.4        23.5
IDA di.b-rn_nts/tot,l gross di.borsents                        17.8     21.2       22.5       31.1      20.3        29.2
IDA debt service/totsL debt service                             1.1      3.2        2.4         5.2      5.6         4.6
As % of Debt Ootstanding
at Ond of FY79
SD TUCTURE
M4turity *tructur of debt ootstandiog (%)
atritcies dos .ithin 3 ymrs                                                           12.0
Mat.rities doe wIthin 10 years                                                        32.7
Ioterest strnct-cs of debt outstanding (%)
t.er-t du.  ithin first Year                                                           1.7
ASADD
May 1, 1980



_ 27-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    428.28       -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.00      0.87
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.35
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.00     1.59
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                    7.30     0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      3.50
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      4.03
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50     3.91
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                          8.70     0.21
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                  20.00     9.02
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00    19.52
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00     8.68
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    18.47
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    12.96
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00     7.30
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50     3.39
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00     8.35



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                           Un-
Number  Year   Borrower             Purpose                  Bank        IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                           16.00   13.76
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                           21.00   18.41
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                       10.00    7.96
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                    5.00    3.78
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                          75.00    3.05
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                        21.00   16.84
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                        25.00   24.96
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                       7.00    6.97
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                        6.00    5.50
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                  19.00   17.58
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                         75.00    4.48
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                    10.00    9.85
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                        6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                         25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                           32.00   32.00
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
Power Distribution                       28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                       22.00   21.77
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports               25.00    6.94
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                           25.00   25.00 /c
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway                              10.00   10.00 T7
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                        50.00   50.00
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pump                               37.00   37.00 /b
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Second Chittagong Water
Supply                                  20.00   20.00 /b
Total,                                                        54.9  1,326.28  510.77
of which has been repaid                                    0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               54.9  1,325.88
Total undisbursed                                              0      510.77  510.77
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.
/c   Became effective in May.



_29 _
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads orig-
inally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by World
Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This
request is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B
and C (Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) is reported to have been
substantially completed, except for some minor telecommunications equipment
scheduled to arrive shortly. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1980.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
The project provides flood protection to a gross area of about 130,000
ac and irrigation, by means of low lift pumps, to about 60,000 ac. Drainage
and water control is provided by a main regulator in the south of the project
area on the S. Dakatia River and irrigation water is provided by a pumping
station to the north of the area on the same river. Both structures are comple-
ted and the project includes improved agricultural extension, equipment and
vehicles, housing and technical assistance. Cropping intensity is expected to
rise from 165% to 230%.
After a poor start, due to war, natural disasters, delays in land
acquisition, and weak administration and management, the project has been
substantially completed except for arrival of some additional maintenance
equipment, completion of about six miles of channel remaining to be improved
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4
as well as 2,000 ft of borrow pit canal, held up by a land dispute. Project
benefits have been obtained over part of the area and production has increased
from 69,000 tons in 1976/77 to 97,000 tons in 1978/79 and at full development
in 1982/83 it is expected to be up to 203,000 tons. The fisheries improvement
program in the project area (financed under Credit 605-BD) is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned in FY80. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million
from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated
to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the
Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural Dev-
elopment Corporation (BADC) component; the last installment of processing
equipment will be installed for processing the current season's wheat crop;
all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are poor
marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multiplication.
Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and marketing
consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certification Agency
continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is currently
under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of GOB's recent
strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support intensive
seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980 and
extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions are
known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975: Effective Date:  September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump
units are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are in store and ready for
issue. The target for the FY80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or
44,000 acres planted.



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making good progress having been behind schedule
due to initial delays in hiring project consultants. The consultants for the
irrigation portion of the project began work in September 1976, but their
effectiveness was limited by delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment
and in the assignment of local consultants to assist in the design work. This
has been resolved. After a period of good progress, project civil works have
again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with
the contractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works
have resumed at normal pace.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. Initially, despite some teething prob-
lems, the project was progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the
following weaknesses became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the
various ministries and agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization
and ineffective supervision of the project by the implementing agency, the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the
cooperative system (complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate
training of project personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the
field of rural credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with
IRDP, undertook a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire,
setting out an action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the
Government in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as



ANNEX II
Page 6
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales
of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has
procured in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which have been distributed by
January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000 shallow tube-
wells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construction of work-
shops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP)



_33                        ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date:  April 14, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to us? higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
intensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Construction
contracts have been awarded for Bangladesh Agricultural Institute (BARI)
research stations and Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) head-
quarters building. Procurement of building materials and equipment is in
progress. Reports from BARC Technical Working Groups (outlining research
subprojects), a National Research Plan, and a Five-Year Plan for BARI have
been produced and reviewed by IDA. A total of 16 Ph.D students have been
placed in overseas universities. The appointment of a consultant for research
monitoring has not yet been made. The unsuccessful in-country M.Sc. training
program should be redesigned.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start in 1980.



34                        ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This credit has only recently been declared effective. Fisheries
and engineering consultants have been engaged and are expected to commence
field operations by April 1980. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been
prepared.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This credit has only recently been declared effective.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 million Credit of April 4,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1980, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.6 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$16.7 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been outstanding for US$2.6 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of April 30, 1980 disbursements were US$72.0 million and QAR
had been outstanding for US$1.3 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of April 30, 1980 disbursements were about US$70.5 million and
QAR had been outstanding for US$2.9 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds have been fully committed.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
This credit has only recently been declared effective.



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of Taka funds. The
External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance informed the
Resident Mission that the allocation of the required funds (approx. 40 million
Taka) would be released in March 1980. In such case, the project could be
substantially completed by the current closing date, December 31, 1980. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Civil works associated with the tech-
nical education component, although 30 months behind schedule are virtually
complete and the polytechnics are now operating. About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. Project costs (in
dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.
Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works which until the end of 1978 was about
three months ahead of schedule had slowed down in 1979 due to shortage of
local funds. However Funds have now been made available and completion is
still expected within the Credit Closing Date. Training of teachers for the
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by transfer
of instructors to the extension staff due to downgrading of salaries.
Little progress has been made on the recruitment of technical assistance
experts, the development of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of
extension staff. The Bank is reviewing the project to determine the relevance
of the technical assistance component, since it appears that the studies of
Agricultural Extension Service (AES) seem to be no longer necessary after the
Training and Visit Sytem (TNV) of extension has been established.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2. 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project has recently been declared effective after having met the
four conditions of effectiveness. The Project Implementation Unit manager and
architect are in post. All sites for project buildings have been made available.
The equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA appro-
val. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training Center
(TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have been
concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year has improved; and the internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, has been implemented. However, this reorganization will
not be fully effective in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD
is able to: (a) fill its large number of vacant technical, managerial and
supervisory positions; and (b) simplify its administrative, financial and
recruitment procedures. Actions are underway by the Government on both counts.
A program has been started for the retraining of field workers which should
improve their performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80
Family Welfare Centers, built through community participation, has been encour-
aging, the progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than
expected. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the credit
has also shown less than expected improvements.  A one year extension of the
Closing Date will probably be required to complete the project and full dis-
bursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
All works under the project are now complete with the exception of
the Surma River Crossing Study where the consultants' final report is still
awaited. Arbitration on the Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims appears
likely to be completed in October/November 1980, and it is expected that the
Government of Bangladesh will request an extension of the closing date of
the credit to December 31, 1980 in order that credit funds may be used to
defray the cost of eligible components of the settlement.



-38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973,_ as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$8.25 million (97% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
Despite some delay in approval of the Project Proforma and in the
appointment of consultants for supervision, preparations for project construc-
tion are proceeding well. Construction equipment bids have been called and
orders placed for most of the first phase equipment. Contracts for the earth-
works, bridges and culverts contracts are at present out to tender, and it
is expected that construction will commence, as scheduled, at the beginning
of the 1980/81 construction season. Borrower performance is good, and no
reasons for revision of project cost or closing date are seen at this time.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's



- 39 -                     ANNEX II
Page 13
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties.  About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national triunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have decided on the technique to be adopted
for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is
to be made in 1980 for delivery by mid-1982. The rate of physical installa-
tions during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from the
previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Govern-
ment has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively
and should be made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satisfactory
accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the beneficiary,
but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular in considera-
tion of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty-two subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
exte-asion of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 13 subprojects
totaling about $4.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be



ANNEX II
- 40 -                     Page 14
expected to be committed within the next few months. The project is pro-
gressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979:
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FOURTH EDUCATION (PRIMARY) PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 years
(b) The agency which prepared project:
IDA/UNESCO/GOB
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
IDA Mission to consider project:
May 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:
January 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 19-21, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September/October 1980
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   GOB would:
(i) select Assistant Thana Education Officers using
criteria agreed with IDA (paragraph 49 of PR).
(ii)  prepare and send to IDA for comments a report on
baseline measurements and results achieved before
project; detailed annual reports on results of
the project experimentation (4 months following
the end of the school year); present a draft
comprehensive completion report showing the
results of the project (paragraph 62 of PR).
B.   Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the selection of key training and evaluation staff
(paragraphs 53 of PR).
(ii)  the signing of technical assistance contracts with
acceptable agencies (paragraph 57 of PR).
(iii) the approval of Project Proforma (paragraph 59
of PR).
(iv)  the establishment of a revolving fund (paragraph
60 of PR).



BRD 15122
-7~~~~                                         ~c
6U                                 /                                                                                        U;Rw~
LU ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ,I,<                                                                                     
Li- --, a
t!~~~T 
~~~~ my ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ J                                                                                               2.I



