i               CREDIT NUMBER/Q' BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Education (Primary) Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                  1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER      BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     v're      -17            , 1980, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meenings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)  "PEU" means the Project Evaluation Unit established by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)   "regional project units" means the regional project
units established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 (c)
of this Agreement;
(d) "DPE" means the Directorate of Primary Education or such
other body responsible for the management and administration of
the Borrower's primary education system; and
(e) "Tk" means Taka the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1990, and ending June 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate educational, financial, architectural, engineering and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of sub-section (a)
above, the Borrower shall:
(i) establish a revolving fund with an initial deposit
of Tk 500,000 in a local financial institution for
the purposes of making prompt payments for expendi-
tures incurred under the Project excluding salaries
for incremental staff; and
(ii) replenish and maintain the said revolving fund at
a level adequate to meet the said expenditures, and
in no instance lower than Tk 500,000 at the com-
mencement of each month.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed ou,t of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Secuion 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for


﻿-4-
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such actior as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish by September 30,
1980:
(a) a Project Implementation Unit headed by the Project
Director who shall be the chief executive officer of the DPE,


﻿-5-
and consisting of such other staff, and with such terms of
reference mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion;
(b) a Project Evaluation Unit consisting of such staff and
with such terms of reference mutually agreed between the Borrower
and the Association; and
(c) seven regional project units, each unit consisting of
such staff and with terms of reference mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that appointment of
qualified staff for the Project be made in accordance with a
schedule mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) select key staff for
training in the areas of (i) Project management, (ii) teacher
training, (iii) education administration, and (iv) research and
evaluation, in accordance with a plan mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Association; and
(b) carry out the remainder of the training program under
Part C of the Project in accordance with a plan mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall select school sites under
the Project in accordance with appropriate school mapping criteria
mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.10. In order to assist the Borrower to carry out
Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall conduct, using wherever
possible available reports and data, a study on alternative
building designs for schools under terms of reference mutually
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and furnish the
results of the said study by December 31, 1980, to the Association
for comments.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out, under Part G of the Project, an experimen-
tation program in accordance with terms of reference mutually
agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and
(b) carry out, under Part H of the Project, four studies in
accordance with terms of reference mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿-6-
Section 3.12. Without limiting the generality of the pro-
visions of Section 3.04, the Borrower shall prepar- -nd furnish to
the Association for comments (i) before the commencement of the
first school year, a report on baseline measurements and results
achieved under the Project, (ii) within four months of the end of
each school year under the Project, an annual evaluation report on
results of the Project, and (iii) upon the completion of the
Project, a draft comprehensive evaluation report on the results of
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be main-
tained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be retained, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) above for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) have the said separate accounts consolidated by
the PIU; (iii) cause to be furnished to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said separate
accounts for such year as so audited, (B) the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) above as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn


﻿- 7 -
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture have bepn used for the purpose for which they were provided,
and (C) the consolidated ac.rounts prepared by the PIU under
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) above; and (iv) cause to be furnished to the
Association such other information concerning said separate
accounts, consolidated accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower shall have established a revolving fund,
satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i)
of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall have entered into contracts, satis-
factory to the Association, pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, for consultant services for (i) general Project
advice, planning and organization of training; (ii) Project
evaluation; and (iii) experimentation (IMPACT) under Part G of the
Project;
(c)  the Borrower shall have selected key staff for training
pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreemuent; and
(d) the Project Proforma shall have been approved by the
Borrower.
Section 5.02. The date v-              /*    is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division


﻿-8-
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By                     L."44k 14/4Å ,  /V t  r"
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  19,400,000     )
including                                  )
building                                   )
materials                                  ) 100% of foreign
) expenditures,
) 100% of local
) expenditures
(2) Furniture                     2,500,000     ) ex-factory,
) and 80%
(3) Educational                   2,200,000     )
equipment                                  )
and bicycles                               )
(4) Textbooks and                 2,800,000       80%
instructional
materials
(5) Girls' uniforms               2,700,000       80%
(6) Training                      3,800,000       80%
(7) Technical
services:
(a) Technical assist-        2,600,000       100%
ance and fellow-
ships; and
(b) Design and super-          600,000       80%
vision for civil
works


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(8) Incremental staff             1,900,000
incurred in:
(a) calender
year 1981                                100%
(b)  calender
year 1982                                90%
(c) calender
year 1983                                80%
(d) calender
year 1984                                70%
(e) calender
year 1985                                60%
(9) Unallocated                   1,500,000
TOTAL        40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or


﻿- 12 -
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower to carry out
part of its program to achieve universal primary education in its
territory. The Project pertains to the Borrower's primary educa-
tion system in about 40 selected thanas (administrative areas) and
consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the teacher service through (i) renova-
tion of academic facilities, expansion of student
hostels, provision of equipment materials, and addi--
tional staff for 8 primary teacher training institutes
and the Borrower's Academy for Fundamental Education and
(ii) provision of about 500 assistant teachers.
Part B:   Expansion of the teacher supervision service by pro-
vision of assistant thana education officers, and
provision of bicycles and office facilities for all
assistant thana education officers.
Part C:   Training of about 16,500 teachers and assistant
teachers, and about 600 supervisory, administration,
research and evaluation, teacher training and project
implementation personnel.
Part D:   Provision of teachers' manuals, instructional materials,
textbooks and school uniforms for eligible students.
Part E:   Construction and equipping of about 6,455 classrooms for
about 1,300 existing schools.
Part F:   Establishment of the PEU, PIU, and seven regional
project units, and strengthening of the DPE (including
provision of staff, equipment and offices for the
regional project units).
Part G:   Conducting a limited experiment in programmed learning
using the Instructional Management by Parents, Community
and Teachers (IMPACT) system.
Part H:   Studies to assist in (i) curriculum development, (ii)
examination of educational costs and finances, and (iii)
developing plans for a National Institute for Education


﻿- 14 -
Administration and Management, and (iv) developing
improved systems for production and 'stribution of
textbooks.
The Project shall be carried out with the assistance of
consultant services.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as 4-e case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 16 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associ-
ation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangl,desh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 17 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures (which permit the participation of foreign contractors)
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for furniture may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with pro-
cedures (which permit the participation of foreign manufacturers
or suppliers) satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Minor civil works and repairs including fabrication and
repair of furniture may be carried out by the Borrower on the
basis of force account, provided all such works and repairs do not
in the aggregate exceed $3,000,000 equivalent.
4.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles which cannot be
suitably packaged into groups of $50,000 equivalent or more may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures (which permit the participation of
foreign manufacturers and suppliers) satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, provided all such contracts shall not in the aggregate
exceed $400,000 equivalent.
5.   Small items not exceeding $15,000 equivalent per con-
tract, may be procured through local shopping on the basis of
comparison of not less than three price quotations, provided all
such procurement shall not in the aggregate exceed $100,000
equivalent.
6.   Textbooks and 3tudent uniforms may be procured in
accordance with the Borrower's procedures for the procurement of
such goods, satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all civil works contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more and all other contracts esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 18 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedure- to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for*performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of


﻿- 19 -
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 0-.
FOR SECRETARY


