Document of
The World Bnk
FOR OMFICIAL USE OLY
-  ept ML P-3677-ER
REPORT MM
PERESIDET OF TE
INE DNL lN  FMR RECONSTRCI  Awn DrO   I
TO TUE
EXECUTIE DIRE:TORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN ANDUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$222.8 MILLION
TO
CENTRAS ELETRICAS  SS S.A. - ELTROBRAS
WM  THE GUARANTEE OF
TEE FEDERATIVE REDBLC OF BRAZIL
POR A
RmRAL                 PROJECT
November 16, 1983
This docunt hag a restricted distributim Ad my be used by recipients only in the perfonrnee of
their ofcAtl dutiess   ntens my not otherwise be disclosed without World Duk autuadbom.



Curreny Equie
Currency Unit  GCrzeiro (Cr$)
As of Jimne 1983
Cr$1 lJS$0.0018
US$1 - Cr$543.00
Govenment of Brazil Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
ELETROBRAS    - Centrais Elet   B          l   SJ
CEAIG         - Centrals Eletricas de Mins Gerais S.A.
COPEL         - Compauhia Paranaens- de Energia
DM            - Departmnto de Kletriflcacao Rural
DNAEN         -  Dcpatmto Nacional de Aguas a Energia Eletrica
GMM           - Grupo Executivo de Eletrificacao Rural
ICB           -  luternational Competitive Bidding
IDB           - Inter-American Developmet Bank
INCR&         - Instituto Nacional de Colono e Reforn Agraria
IUEE          -  Imposto Unico de Energia Eletrica
(Electricity Consumption Tax)
ORTN          - Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Adjustable Nation:l Treasury Bonds used as a basis for
monetary correction)
SEAP          - Secretaria Especial de Abastecimento e Precos
SEPLAN        - Secretaria de Planejamiento da Presidencia da Republica
SEST          - Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PRCJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.-ELETROBRAS
Guarantor:     Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries: - Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A. (CEMIG)
- Companhia Paranaense de Energia (COPEL)
Amount:        US$222.8 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee of US$555.6_thousand.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending
Terms:       ELETROBRAS will relend the proceeds of the loan to CEMIG and
COPEL on the same terms and conditions as those of the loan.
The beneficiaries would bear the foreign exchange and interest
risk on the Bank loan.
Project
Description: The proposed project consists of the 1984-87 rural
electrification investment programs of CEMIG and COPEL, and a
study of the problems and prospects of rural electrification;
it also includes training components for both beneficiaries.
The project aims at raising agricultural production, reducing
the use of oil products in farming, improving the quality of
life on the land, an4 assisting the Federal Government in
formulating policies for the development and financing of
rural electrification. About 148,000 rural properties and
49,000 village consumers would be connected by CEMIG and
COPEL.
Risks:         The project itself does not involve any special risks.  Both
the borrower and the beneficiaries, however, have been
affected by the financial problems of the power sector.  These
are being addressed through a program of tariff increases and
cost reduction measures agreed between the Government and the
Bank which will progressively improve the financial condition
of the power sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. fts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                    -USS million-
Local     Foreign       Total
CEMIG sub-project                          148.7       85.9       234.6
training program                          0.1         3.0         3.1
COPEL sub-project                          110.2       79.3       189.5
training program                         -            1.0         1.0
ELETROBRAS study                                        0.5         0.5
Base Cost  /a                             259.0  /b  169.7        428.7
Physical contingencies                      25.9       17.0        42.9
Price contingencies                         57.0       56.0       113.0
Front-end Fee                              -            0.6         0.6
Total Cost                                 341.9      243.3       585.2
Financing Plan:                                       -US$ million-
Local     Foreign        Total   Z
CEMIG                                    64.6         -            64.6  11
COPEL                                    46.9         -            46.9   8
Rural Consumers                         230.4         -           230.4  39
IBRD                                      -         222.8         222.8  38
Co-Financing                              -          20.5          20.5   4
341.9      243.3         585.2  100
Total
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY        84     85    86      87      88     89      90
Annual      6.7 Ic 20.0  27.8   70.1   54.5   34.5    9.2
Cumulative  6.7    26.7  54.5  124.6  179.1  213.6  222.8
Rate of Return:      At least 11X rate of return on the investment programs
of the beneficiaries, using agreed tariffs as
a proxy measure of benefits (para. 88).
Staff Appraisa-l    No. 4666BR, dated November 14, 1983.
Report;
/a At June 1983 prices.
/b Includes taxes and import duties estimated at 10% of local COSL.
/c Includes front-end fee of US$.6 million. Excludes deposit to Special
Account.



INTERIATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$222.8 MILLION
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
FOR A RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
t
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS with the guarantee
of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$222.8
million, including a capitalized front-end fee of US$555.6 thousand, to
help finance a rural electrification project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate. ELETROBRAS will relend most of the proceeds of the
loan to Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gera-s S.A. (CEMIG) and to Companhia
Paranaense de Energia (COPEL) on the same terms and conditions as those of
the loan. The beneficiaries will bear the foreign exchange and interest
risk on the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled  Economic Memorandum on Brazil
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs summarize
some of the principal findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on Mlarch 15, 1979, for a six-year term. While the process of
political redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of the
Government's attention has necessarily been devoted to grappling with
inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic
priorities of the Government include the growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of manufactured exports, and
increasing domestic savings, while at the same time improving the situation
of Brazil's economically most disadvantaged population. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first
major elections since the mid-1960s. Opposition candidates captured the
governorships of several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
and iMinas Gerais. A presidential election is scheduled for November 1984.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining



-2-
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. As the merchandise trade deficit ballooned to US$4.7 billion
in 1974, efforts were made to redress the external imbalance. Over the
entire 1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82%
increase of imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid
accumulation of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the
compression of real imports, and the intensification of inflationary
pressures increased the economy's vulnerability to the further sharp
increase in petroleum prices and the rise in interest rates which occurred
in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over those two years, the current account deficit
more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell
by US$5 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external
capital inflows. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates
charged on official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated
tax incentive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial
transactions tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was
raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 3.5% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
bit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade
surplus was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further
contraction of petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$687
million, to the equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6
months coverage at the end of 1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement



- 3 -
served to sustain the confidence of the international banks, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$767 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and Brazil was forced to increase its short-term borrowing and draw
down its reserves in the last quarter of 1982.  The current account deficit
for 1982 totaled US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history,
mostly reflecting record high interest payments. These interest payments
(US$8.5 billion) plus amortization of existing medium- and long-term (M&LT)
loans (US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new M&LT loans
(US$15.2 billion), constituting a negative net ML&T resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-83 stabilization effort in Brazil has placed heavy
reliance or. monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell, and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and the channeling of available financial
resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high real
interest rates in the relatively free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market. Real interest rates of 40-50% have become common. As a
result private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Reflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in the
State of Sao Paulo fell by over 20% between November 1980 and October
1983. For 1982, GDP dropped by about 1%, while inflation continued at just
below 100%. GUP for 1983 is expected to dec.line by 5-6%, bringing the
cumulative decline in per capita income since 1980 to over 15%.
10.       In late 1982 the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over existing loans
and to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market
conditions led Brazil to seek assistance from the international Monetary
Fund in support of its adjustment program. Adverse external circumstances
have considerably complicated Brazil's economic situation and have rendered
short-term adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. In February
1983, to support the Government's austerity program, the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and an Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85.
Coupled with this financing package were commitments by the international
commercial banks for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rollover of
US$4.6 billion of medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983, US$9.4
billion in short-term commercial credits, and restoration to US$7.5 billion
of deposits held by foreign banks in overseas branches of Brazilian banks.



-4-
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.  A
major objective for 1983 has been to generate an unprecedented trade
surplus of US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account
balance-of-payments deficit and its external borrowing requirements. In
order to increase the chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion trade
surplus target, the cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983. The
cruzeiro will continue to be devalued in line with domestic inflation
through 1984, implying some additional real depreciation as external prices
rise. Simultaneously, the Government has temporarily imposed stricter,
emergency oriented, import restrictions. Despite a slow start and
continuing adverse international market conditions, it now appears that the
trade surplus target will be exceeded by US$300-500 million. While much of
the surplus is attributed to reductions in imports, export performance in
the past few months has improved considerably. October 1983's exports
exceeded those of October 1982 by 132, pushing up the cumulative growth in
relation to the first ten months of 1982 to 8Z. The current account
deficit will be reduced from US$14.5 billion in 1982 to about US$8 billion
in 1983, or some 3% of GDP in this year.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets. In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced to
(a) reduce the consolidated federal public deficit through both expenditure
cuts and revenue increases, Cb) restrain monetary and credit expansion, (c)
decrease credit and commodity subsidies and (d) reduce overall wage
indexation to less than 100% of cost-of-living increases. According to
Government estimates of the consolidated federal deficit, the program
announced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and financing
ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the IMF, if fully complied with, would
have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage of GDP from
6% in 1982 to a surplus of 1% in 1983.1/ By May 1983 it had become
apparent that this ambitious target, involving a 7% change in the deficit
as a percentage of GDP, was not being met. Consequently, the IMF suspended
the second disbursement of the EFF of US$411 million scheduled for May and
initiated negotiations with the Government to revise the stabilization
program and the ceilings in the agreement.
13.       In June the Government announced a new package of stabilization
measures. The stabilization program during the first half of 1983 had been
1/ The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitional or conceptual differences rather than from statistical
ones. The Brazilian Government's estimates of the consolidated public
sector deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate
the accrued monetary correction of the federal internal debt as a
current expenditure. The IMF, on the other hand, prefers to treat the
monetary correction of the dcbt as a current expenditure and to
express the public sector's financing requirements in nominal
values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated into each
other, once the rate of inflation is given.



complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part attributed to the
February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic uncertainty.
Renewed efforts have been directed at reducing the consolidated public
sector deficit. A rapid phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies was
announced. Prices of goods and services produced or marketed by the public
sector, such as petroleum derivatives and wheat, were substantially
increased, reducing implicit consumer subsidies and the accompanying public
enterprise deficits. The control agency for the federal public enterprises
has been strengthened, and a new public enterprise budget has been
implemented, involving a further 20% cut in the investments of such firms.
Wage policy has also been modified to provide less than full cost-of-living
indexing to wages and salaries. After considerable political bargaining,
the new wage policy was approved by the Congress in mid-November.
14.       The new letter of intent to the IMF was signed by the Government
in mid-September, and the IMF Board of Directors approved the revised
agreement on Nuvember 22, 1983*. A major target in the new agreement is
the reduction of the public sector deficit from 6% of GDP in 1982 to 2.7%
by the end of 19B3, with complete elimination scheduled for 1984. The
monetary base is to be held to a 90% increase in 1983; in contrast,
inflation is expected to be over 200% for 1983, as measured through
December. External payments arrears of more than US$2 billion are to be
eliminated by the end of 1983.
15.       To achieve the reduction in the public sector deficit, the
Government is committed to the phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies
and continuation of pricing policies to eliminate existing subsidies on oil
derivatives, wheat and major public sector products. Price controls on
some 300 privately produced industrial goods and services will be rescinded
gradually as inflation falls. The finances of the central government will
also be improved by additional revenue-generating measures; those of the
state enterprises will be strengthened by control of wage costs and by
cutbacks in investment outlays, as well as by better pricing policies. An
improved system for controlling expenditures and borrowing has been
introduced.
16.       A new external financing package from the commercial banks and
official lending agencies for the remainder of 1983 and 1984, amounting to
US$11 billion in new funds and some debt rescheduling, is currently being
finalized as an integral part of the renegotiated agreement between the
Brazilian Government and the IMF. In addition to rescheduling principal
payments, the international commercial banks will be providing US$6.5
billion in additional new loans. Official bilateral institutions are
expected to lend Brazil about US$2.5 billion as part of the package, with
another US$2 billion resulting from the rescheduling of bilateral loans
through the Paris Club.
17.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about three-fourths of
* To be confirmed on November 22.



- 6 -
the country's debt bears either variable interest rates or is short-term,
each 1% drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$650 million. For
each dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil
bill, which accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall
by US$300 million at current consumption levels.
18.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater, as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues.  Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential and to substitute alcohol for
gasoline. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies. As a result of these and other
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by more than 10%
between 1979 and 1982, and domestic petroleum production increased by about
50% over the same period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports,
which totaled US$10 billion in 1982, were reduced to an annual level of
US$7-8 billion in the first half of 1983.
19.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years, but
agricultural and industrial production and exports, as well as the
development of domestic energy sources, are receiving priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
20.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payments depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices. Assuming that the recovery of the world economy now
underway is sustained, Brazil could look forward to gradual recovery
beginning in 1984 and reaching about 5% per annum by 1987. Such a scenario
would be compatible with a falling current account deficit through 1988.
However, it does require the continued availability of net capital inflows
over the period.
21.       M&LT borrowing for 1983 and beyond will be substantial -- over
US$20 billion gross and about US$1l billion net in 1983 alone. As Brazil's
exports increase, however, the country's borrowing requirements will fall
over time, and the net M&LT debt service ratio is expected to decline from
75% in 1982 to approximately 64% in 1987.
22.       These objectives will not be easily achieved, however, and
instances of short-term cash flow problems cannot be ruled out. However,
the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively
resilient, and pclicy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances. With the Government's commitment to the
austerity program, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international



-7-
circumstances and to reorient the economy toward a more efficient
development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes
described above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
23.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy.  Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these
and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates
from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and
welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income
gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.2/ Given
the impact of the stabilization program on output and employment, however,
much of this gain may be lost in the present crisis. Particularly affected
are the urban poor.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
24.       By September 30, 1983 the Bank had made 122 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$8,187.2 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, but increased to US$472
million in FY82, and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of
September 30, 1983 was US$3,676.7 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans.
25.       Over the FY77-82 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. However, in Ff83, seven
loans totaling US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9
million for a project to help finance the preparation of metropolitan
development programs for Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
2/   For a more detailed account of these developments, see  Perspectives
on Poverty and Income Inequality in Brazil: An Analysis of the
Changes during the 1970s" (Staff Working Paper Nlo. 601, dated
July 1983) and 'Brazil - Human Resources Special Report' (Report No.
2604-BR, dated July 13, 1979).



- 8 -
US$154.0 million fo; a third feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a
second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and
sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural development
project in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a third
agro-industries credit project. For FY84, loans for US$52.7 million for a
market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million for
an export development project and US$303 million for an agricultural credit
and export development project, in the context of the Special Action
Program, and US$65.2 million for the third phase of the Northwest region
development program have so far been approved. Loans for power
distribution, technician training and supplemental financing for on-going
agricultural and rural development projects will soon be considered
by the Executive Directors.
26.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the
end of 1982. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 9% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4%.
27.       As of September 30, 1983, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$983.08 million, of which US$622.36 million had been sold, repnaV or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$360.72 million, US$286.30 million
represent loans and US$74.42 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
28.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary chan-es in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
29.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through acceler'ted resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required b -be austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, are also being reflected in our operations. These include working
capital financing under the third agro-industries project, financing of a
higher share of project costs during the initial implementation years for
the second rural development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and
streamlining of the operation of Project Special Accounts into which Bank
funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need for the
Government to prefinance Bank's share of project costs, and which allow
disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the exchange rate pcevailing on
the date of expenditure.
30.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.



- 9 -
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Given agriculture's large
potential contribution to export growth and import substitution,
adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's transition from
stabilizatioa to growth.
31.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. To faster
the use of electricity in agriculture and limit that of petroleum products
is a prime objective of the proposed loan. Further lending will be based
on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide incentives to producers
and encourage conservation by consumers while reducing government subsidies
to the energy sector.
32.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agr:cultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in tne South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living cond-tions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. The proposed loan should
enhance the productivity of the rural population and improve the quality of
life on the land.
33.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
ConLinued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are



- 10 -
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazai are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more
important in future years, however, and the new co-financing instruments
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with additional lending on appropriate terms.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
34.       Brazil has vast water resources, with a potential for
hydroelectric development estimated at about 213,000 KW. Of this, about
33,000 MW has been utilized and an additional 10,000 MW is scheduled to be
developed by 1987. Installed generating capacity was about 39,000 in 1982;
85Z in hydroelectric and the rest in thermal plant.
35.       Proven oil and natural gas reserves are limited.  Domestic autput
of crude exceeds 300,000 barrels per day and meets about 30% of the needs;
over 700,000 barrels per day have to be imported. By the end of 1985,
output may reach 500,000 barre's per day, and while this is a reasonably
realistic target, maintenance of a 500,000 barrels per day production level
will require an intensive exploration effort.  Since 1977, the Government
has granted some risk-type contracts to private companies to accelerate
exploration but the major responsibility still falls on PETROBRAS, the
national oil company.
36.       Coal deposits are estimated at 22 billion tons. However, most of
it is low quality and some is costly to mine. At present, coal represents
only 42 of energy supply. The Government expects to raise this share to 6%
by 1987 and =icourages the use of coal instead of other fuels in industrial
boilers, particularly by the cement industry.
37.       A U.S. built 626 SW nuclear unit was completed recently and
should be in commercial operation in 1984. Two German-supplied units of
1,245 MW each are under construction. An agre nent with the Federal
Republic of Germany provides for another 2,490 MW in nuclear capacity by
1995. However, the nuclear power program is being reviewed because of
substantial cost increases.
38.       Other widely used energy sources are firewood, charcoal and
sugar-cane bagasse. Production of alcohol for use as fuel in internal
combustion engines started in 1975 and amounted to 3.3 billion liters five
years later. Since 1980, cars running on alcohol have been introduced on a
commercial scale. The current goal is to produce in 1985 about 11
billion liters of alcohol to substitute for 39% of estimated gasoline
consumption.



- 11 -
39.       In 1981, Brazil's gross energy consumption was 115 million tons
of oil equivalent, or 0.95 t.o.e. per head of population. Oil products,
about 702 of them imported, accounted for /OZ of energy consumption and
hydroelectricity for 27%; the remaining 33% was met mainly by coal, wood
products and bagasse.
Power Sector Policy
40.       Conservation of energy, intensified exploration and exploitation
of domestic energy resources, substitution of domestically produced energy
for imported oil and metallurgical coal, and promotion of the use of
electricity through extension of distribution systems in urban and rural
areas, are the main objectives of Brazilian energy policy. In achieving
them, the electric power sector will play a major role, now that the use of
alcohol as automotive fuel is well under way. Pricing of electricity will
be very important in conserving oil; in this respect, progress has been
made through marginal cost tariff studies carried out under loans 1300-BR
and 1939-BR. The results of these studies will be put into effect over
several years in the framework of recently enacted legislation and should
result in more efficient use of installed capacity. Plwns for generating
plants to be built in the remainder of this century aim at 89% of capacity
being hydro, 2Z coal-fired thermal and 9% nuclear. As 962 of electricity
generated in the existing interconnected systems is hydro, there is little
room for displacing oil in power generation. However, gradual substitution
of electricity for oil products in industry is being encouraged. To make
full use of the existing hyd-o generation capacity, low rates for
interruptible electricity services are now being offered in Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. A project which would allow industry to
substitute considerable amounts of oil nov used for electricity is under
consideration by the Bank.
The Institutions
41.       The Brazilian power sector is now one of the world's largest.
During the past 50 years, it has been progressively nationalized and
consolidated. Since 1960, the jurisdiction over the sector rests with the
Federal Ministry of Hines and Energy. A 1967 decree laid down the sectoral
organization under which the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia
Eletrica (DNAEE) acts as regulatory agency, granting licenses, setting
power rates, assigning concessions and approving expansion plans, whereas
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS, established in 1962 as a
holding company for the federally owned utilities, administers public funds
allocated to the sector, coordinates external borrowing, plans the
expansion of major generating and transmission facilities, and extends
planning and managerial assistance to electric power utilities. The decree
further provided for the centralization of public electricity services in
the individual States. As a result, major state-owned power companies have
absorbed numerous municipal and private utilities; nonetheless, the sector
still comprises about 600 concessionaires, of which 25 are state-owned
companies and the rest small municipal and private undertakings.



- 12 -
42.       The bulk suppliers of electricity are four regional subsidiaries
of ELETROBRAS: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE) for the
North and part of the Central West; Companhia Hidroeletrica do Sao
Francisco (CRESF) for the Northeast; FURNAS Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS) for
tne Southeast and part of the Central West; and Centrais Eletricas do Sul
do Brasil (ELETROSUL) for the South. ELETROBRAS also holds the Federal
Government's 502 interest in Itaipu Binacional, set up by Brazil and
Paraguay in 1973 to build the Itaipu hydroelectric scheme on the Parana
River now nearing completion. The main state-owned utilities, primarily
responsible for transmission and distribution within their States, are
Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP), Eletricidade de Sao Paulo
(ELETROPAILO), Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A. CCECMG), Companhia
Paranaense de Energia (COPEL) and Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica -
Rio Grande do Sul (CEEE).
Sector Finances
43.       After World War II, Brazilian legislation adopted for the power
sector the principle of service at cost plus an adequate return on the
capital invested. Since 1971, power companies have been allowed to earn,
at the discretion of DNAEE, a return of 10% to 12% on the remunerable
investment3/, after meeting operating expenses, depreciation, taxes other
than on income, the reversion tax4/ payable to ELETROBRAS, and a guarantee
surcharge5/ accruing to DNAEE. However, in 1981, DNAEE's regulatory
functions were curtailed and final approval of power rates vested in the
Supply and Price Secretariat (SEAP) of SEPLAN.
44*       Annual revaluation of the assets serving as a basis for
calculating the rate of return has been mandatory since 1966. Ten years
later, a monthly adjustment of asset values was introduced, based on the
adjustable National Treasury bond (ORTN) index. In 1980-81, changes in the
ORTN index lagged behind inflation with a negative effect on asset
revaluation; this policy, however, was abandoned in 1981 and current
revaluation procedure (except for isolating the price index from the effect
of the abolition in mid-1983 of oil and wheat subsidies) reflects the rate
of inflation. It was agreed during negotiations that if for three
consecutive months the adjustments made to the ORTN index for the 12-month
period immediately preceding each month is below the variation in domestic
inflation for the same period by more than 10 percentage points,
commitments and disbursements from the loan could be suspended (Section
6.01(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
3/ Net revalued assets, plus an allowance for inventory a-d net working
capital, plus or minus the difference between actual and allowable
return in prior years, minus contributions and grants.
4/ A federal tax of up to 4% on assets in operation; ELETROBRAS applies
its proceeds to sector investment and compensation for taking over the
assets of private utilities.
51 A surcharge of up to 2% on assets in opezation used in the 1970s to
supplement the revenues of certain power companies and since 198; to
equalize the rate of return among the companies.



- 13 -
45.       Heavy investment in large hydroelectric schemes and nuclear
plants during the past ten years, coinciding with the erosion of power
rates in real terms, resulted in a deterioration of sector finances. While
in 1973 consumers contributed a record 56Z of sector resources and
borrowing amounted to 29%, in 1979 borrowed funds represented 87% of sector
resources. Despite substantial nominal increases in power rates in 1979,
1980 and 1981, the sector has failed since 1978 to achieve the OZ rate of
return on remunerable investment provided for by law and reflected in loan
agreements with the Bank; in 1980, the rate of return fell below 5%. After
a review of sector finances with the Bank, the Federal Government agreed in
September 1981 to increase power rates in real terms by at least 3% in 1982
and by at least 5% in 1983 and thereafter, until the annual 10% rate of
return for the power sector as a whole has been attained and return
shortfalls occurring since 1978 have been recovered. The September 1981
agreement also provided that power companies, which are Bank borrowers or
beneficiaries of its loans, would maintain a return at least equal to the
average rate for the sector. Because of slippage in the dates of rate
increases in 1982, and the lagging demand growth, sector revenues have not
expanded as expected. During loan negotiations the Government agreed with
the Bank on a series of measures aimed at improving the financial situation
of the power sector. Such measures include a commitment from the
Government that the electric power sector will reach a 10% financial rate
of return in 1989, to be achieved by improving the rate of return by one
point per year from the current estimate of 4% in 1983. It is to be
achieved through tariff increases and other measures aimed at reducing
operating costs. To achieve the agreed rates of return in 1984 and 1985
the Government agreed to increase tariffs by 5% in real terms each year.
Beyond that, the Government agreed to review with the Bank by January 15,
1986, the financial performance of the power sector and to agree on a
program of tariff increases and other measures required to achieve the
agreed rates of return targets .n future years.  Failure to achieve the
agreed rates of return or to reach agreement on the progran of tariff
increases for 1986 and thereafter, by January 15, 1986, shall entitle the
Bank to suspend disbursements under all loans to the power sector in
Brazil.
46.       The tariff increases will be achieved through a series of
quarterly tariff adjustments. The increases will be made effective no
later than February 1, Hay 1, August 1 and Noves'ber 1, each year. The
increase to be made on February 1 and Hay 1 would include one-half each of
the real increase that has been agreed for the year. During negotiations
it was agreed that until a tariff increase of not less than 2.5% in real
terms, scheduled for February 1, 1984 takes place, the Bank would not
declare effective the proposed loan for this project and the proposed loan
for the ELETROBRAS II Power Distribution project.
47.       Several large generating projects have been commissioned in 1982
and three more, including Itaipu, will be completed in the near future. As
demand for electricity has slowed down, excess capacity exists at present
in the power sector. This reduces investment requirements; consequently,
consumer-based contributions are expected to reach 43% of sector resources



- 14 -
by 1986. While a low return is still projected for the sector in 1983, the
tariff policy agreed with the Bank should cause the rate of return to rise
beginning in 1984 and continue to do so in the following years.
48.       The completion of the Itaipu bydroelectric scheme might affect
the operating costs of the sector. The agreement between Brazil and
Paraguay for the construction of Itaipu established a tariff pattern for
the bulk sale of electricity based on the debt service. Higher interest
rates and massive short-term borrowing by Itaipu Binacional in recent years
have distorted this pattern; the original agreement is likely to be
revised, with the result that a growing percentage of sector revenues would
be applied towards paying for Itaipu-generated energy. Because of this
prospect, the draft Guarantee Agreement provides that the Federal
Government would promptly take all measures required to offset cost
increases arising from higher Itaipu tariffs and ensure that the agreed
rates of return are achieved (Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
49.       In addition to power rates, resldential, commercial and small
industrial consumers are billed for the IUEE tax, accruing to the Federal
Government, and state and municipal utilities, whereas industries using
more than 2,000 kWh per month subscribe to a ccimpulscry savings scheme in
the form of long-term bonds of ELETROBRAS. Nation-wide, the power rates
provide about 83Z of revenues collected from consumers; the IUEE tax
produces some 9% of sector revenues and the compulsory savings the
remaining 8%.
50.       As financial agent for the power sector, ELETROBRAS raises funds
and allocates them for expansion of electric power facilities. The origin
of the funds is as follows:
Ca) proceeds of the IUEE tax6/, the compulsory savings scheme
and the reversion tax;
(b) special federal budget appropriations and refunds by the
Federal Government of most of the dividends paid to it by
ELETROBRAS;
(c) dividends received by ELETROBRAS from subsidiaries and
associated companies, and service payments on loans made to
these companies; and
(d) domestic and external borrowing.
In allocating funds, ELETROBRAS has given priority to large projects,
mainly in power generation, promoted by the Federal Government. As a prime
channel for Bank lending to the power sector, it has become deeply involved
in expanding transmission and distribution systems. The deterioration in
6/ Since 1982, the Federal Government does no longer refund its 40% share
of the IUEE tax as equity contribution.



- 15 -
sector finances in the past 10 years, precipitated by the erosion of power
rates and heavy capital expenditure, was reflected in increased borrowing
by ELETROBRAS and rapidly growing debt service. Between 1973 and 1982,
ELETROBRAS' debt/equity ratio increased from 44:56 to 53:47. The trend is
likely to be reversed; recent tariff agreements with the Bank are expected
to result in a rising net income.
Power Demand and Sector Investment
51.       Throughout the 1970s, sales of electricity by the public supply
system grew at an average annual rate of 12.6%, substantially exceeding it
in the latter part. The growth was largely due to rising demand from
intermediate goods industries, but substitution of electricity for other
forms of energy was also a factor. By 1980, per capita production of
electricity was 1,120 kWh, compared with 1,464 kWh in Argentina and 741 kWh
in Colombia; 56X of Brazilian households were supplied with electricity.
At present, industry uses 57% of the electricity produced and residential
consumers 20%. The distribution of demand is very uneven, owing to the
industrial and urban concentration in the Southeast of the country. Latest
tentative demnnd projections assume sales expanding by 7.6% in 1983 and 10Z
to 11% thereafter.
52.       Planning for investment in generation and transmission is the
responsibility of ELETROBRAS, which prepares the national Master Plan with
due regard to ^- imizing the nation's resources so as to provide a least
cost expansion program for the whole country. The Plan is subject to
review by DNAEE and approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy; however,
in the last two years the overall control of investment by public
enterprises has been vested in the Secretaria de Controle de Empresas
Estatais (SEST). A master plan for the sector to meet the demand through
the year 2000 was prepared by ELETROBRAS in 1982. Since then, changes in
the economic situation have called for revisions. The new investment
program for 1984-87 should be ready by the end of 1983.  It will
incorporate projects selected in accordance with the current shortage of
resources and stress expansion in transmission and distribution systems to
absorb the electricity to be produced by the new generating plants.
Rural Electrification in Brazil
53.       While rural electrification has not been fostered at the national
level, some of the state-owned power companies, mainly in the more
developed States, have carried out rural electrification projects. In the
State of Rio de Janeiro, 40% of rural households benefit from electricity
service. The States of Parana and Minas Gerais show a proportion of about
17X and 10%, respectively. The State of Bahia is at the bottom of the
scale, with only 1% of rural households being connected. Nation-wide, the
weighted average of households supplied with electricity in rural areas is
19%, compared with 85% for the urban areas.
54.       The start was made in 1965, when Instituto Nacional de
Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (INCRA) assumed responsibility for planning
and promoting rural electrification through consumer cooperatives. In



- 16 -
1971, the Grupo Executivo de Eletrificacao Rural (GEER), sponsored by INCRA
and supervised by the Ministry of Agricnlture, was made responsible for
assigning priorities to INCRA projects, appraising and supervising them,
and arranging financing. GEER on-lends funds made available by banks and
government institutions, providing 80-90Z of the project cost with the
balance put up by cooperatives or state utilities. In the 1970s, GEER used
the proceeds of two IDB loans to connect some 63,000 rural consumers.
55.       Between 1976 and 1980, ELETROBRAS helped finance some rural
electrification projects submitted to it by state-owned utilities, setting
up a separate Departamento de Eletrificacao Rural (DEER) to coordinate
these operations. The projects consisted of the extension of distribution
networks in rural areas located close to existing power lines. The number
of customers connected annually peaked at 43,000 in 1979 and declined
thereafter due to a cutback in available funds. As a consequence, DEER was
absorbed by another department.
56.       Rural consumers finance a large part (between 70% and 100%) of
the cost of connections and the entire cost of internal wiring. As an
offsetting measure, rural power rates are fixed at 40% to 65% of urban
tariffs. The proportion of connection costs to be borne by the rural
consumer is defined by the power company; it is up to the prospective
consumer to seek credit for this purpose from state or commercial banks.
In some cases, prospective consumers borrow from banks at subsidized
interest rates, but no uniform proc dures exist in this regard. It is a
legitimate question, whether the policy of requiring from consumers
substantial capital contributions, setting low tariffs, and -  at times
subsidizing interest rates, has been conducive to promoting rural
electrification. A study to look into such problems as these is included
in the project and would be financed by the loan (para. 63). It was agreed
at negotiations that until this study is completed, the subsidy to rural
consumers will not be increased.
57.       At present the main problems facing rural electrification are
lack of well developed standards for investment priorities; of criteria for
the evaluation of rural electrification projects and poor coordination
between the entities carrying out rural electrification programs to ensure
that their programs are consistent with national priorities. The
Government, during negotiations, indicated its commitment to address these
problems and its interest to promote rural electrification as a means of
raising agricultural production, limiting the use of oil products in
farming and improving conditions of life on the land. It was agreed that
ELETROBRAS will undertake the responsibility of assuring that priorities
are correctly assessed and projects are implemented efficiently. To meet
this responsibility ELETROBRAS agreed, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, to set up a Rural Electrification Unit which will
coordinate, review and evaluate for socio-economic justification, technical
soundness and financial viability the rural electrification programs of all
the utilities that request federal funding, or credit from federal banks or
agencies or from international financial institutions. It was also agreed
that the rural electrification study financed by the loan will cover
appropriate aspects to provide Brazil with the basis for a national
long-term rural electrification policy (para. 63).



- 17 -
Bank Assistance to the Power Sector
58.       Since 1949, the Bank has made 35 loans, amounting to about US$1.9
billion, for electric power development in Brazil. These loans were for
hydroelectric plants, associated transmission lines and distribution
systems. Bank participation has contributed to the organization of the
sector and to the planning of Brazil's interconnected electricity grid.
The Bank has encouraged Federal Government efforts to irdplement a tariff
policy, which would enable the sector to generate an adequate proportion of
the funds required for expansion; it has also facilitated private foreign
borrowing by the sector. Eight project performance audit reports, covering
nine hydro-electric and five distribution projects in Brazil have been
distributed to the Executive Directors7/. These reports conclude that,
despite construction delays and cost overruns in several cases, the
projects succeeded in achieving their objectives.
59.       The Bank's past involvement in rural electrification in Brazil
was limited to rural electrification components of rural development
projects. Given the large recent and pending increases in hydroelectric
generation capacity, and the need to foster agricultural production and
raise productivity on the farm, future Bank assistance to the power sector
would emphasize rural electrification. In this context, institutional and
financial aspects will call for special attention (paras. 56 and 57).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
60.       The project was prepared by CEMIG and COPEL with the help of Bank
staff. It was appraised in November 1982 and the apprais-il mission's
findings were brought up-to-date in Brazil in July 1983. Negotiations took
place in Washington in November 1983 with a Brazilian negotiating team
headed by General Jose Costa Cavalcanti, President of ELETROBRAS. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled  Rural Electrification Project  (No. 4666-BR) is
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary
project data are shown in Annex III.
Project Description
61.       The proposed loan would be the first Bank loan for rural
electrification in Brazil. It would help the development of agriculture
and should reduce the need for imported oil in farming. The project
*        consists of the 1984-87 farm and village electrification portions of the
expansion programs of CEMIG and COPEL (para. 42), and a study of the
7/ SecM75-646 of September 4, 1975; SecM77-532 of June 28, 1977;
SecM78-934 of January 16, 1978; SecM79-82 of February 12, 1979;
SecM79-756 of October 23, 1979; SecM79-757 of October 23, 1979;
SecM79-905 of December 29, 1979; and SecM81-532 of June 22, 1981.



- 18 -
problems and prospects of rural electrification in Brazil. More than 70X
of the ultimate beneficiaries of the project would be medium-size farmers
involved in productive activities mainly oriented to export. The remaining
ultimate beneficiaries would be agricultural workers living in farms and
small villages. The project's main aims are to raise agricultural
production through increasing lands under irrigation; stimulate the
development of agro-industries; permit the use of electricity as a source
of energy in farming; improve the quality of life in rural areas; and                    V
assist the Federal Government in formulating policies conducive to the
development of rural electrification and in preparing a medium-term program
for rural electrification.
62.       The CEMIG and COPEL sub-projects provide for the construction of
about 94,000 km of rural distribution lines and the installation of
transformers; for rural consumer connection lines and transformers for farm
electrification; for about 2,120 km of distribution lines and feeders in
the villages; for village consumer connections; and for metering and
auxiliary equipment. About 148,000 rural properties and 49,000 village
consumers would be connected by CEMIG and COPEL. Upon the completion of
the project, over 1.1 million people living on the farms, and about 280,000
villagers, would be supplied with electricity. Selection of the areas to
benefit from the project was based on the size of rural population, the
number of rural properties, income from farming and livestock raising, and
the availability of electric infrastructure. A methodology for determining
area priorities on a nation-wide basis in the future would be worked out
during the proposed rural electrification study.
63.       The terms of reference for the rural electrification study have
been agreed between the Bank and ELETROBRAS. The study would be carried
out for ELETROBRAS by consultants satisfactory to the Bank. It would
provide: (a) the basis for a national long-term rural electrification
policy; (b) a methodology for the socio-economic evaluation of rural
electrification projects; (c) it would review and make recommendations on
rural electrification standards used in Brazil; and (d) it would review and
make recommendations on an appropriate framework for the coordination,
organization and for financing of rural electrification. The study would
serve as a basis for preparing a medium-term program for rural
electrification on a nation-wide scale and its recommendations would be the
subject of an exchange of views between the Federal Government, the Bank
and ELETROBRAS (Section 3.01(e) and Schedule 2(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.04(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
64.       ELETROBRAS (paras. 41 and 42) would be the Borrower and would
relend the proceeds of the loan (other than US$0.5 million which ELETROBRAS
would use to carry out the rural electrification study) to CENIG and COPEL
on the same terms as those of the loan. The two beneficiaries would bear
the foreign exchange risk and the interest risk on the Bank's loan. All
three entities are former Bank borrowers (and beneficiaries under Bank
loans), whose performance has been satisfactory. During the past five
years, ELETROBRAS developed, with the assistance of the Bank, an adequate
capacity for the



- 19 -
appraisal and supervision of power distribution projects. In 1981, it took
over the Bank's identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision
functions, and is row exercising then in respect of the first and the
proposed second ELETROBRAS power distribution projects.
65.       The Federal Government holds 99.6% of ELETROBRAS shares and 100%
of its voting stock. The President is appointed by the President of the
Republic; he chairs the meetings of the Administrative Board, which is also
comprised of five Directors and six Counselors elected by the shareholders;
one of the Counselors represents the private shareholders. The Administra-
tive Board sets policy, approves the annual budget, decides on borrowing,
and bears responsibility for investment by, and financing of, power
utilities. The President and the five Directors, who head the five
directorates of ELETROBRAS, run day-to-day operations and may make policy
recommendations to the Administrative Board. ELETROBRAS has equity
participation in most of the state-owned and municipal power utilities; it
holds 16.7% of CEMIG stock, and 13.3Z of COPEL stock.
66.       CEMIG was established in 1952 through the merger of several power
utilities. It is responsible for the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity in most of the State of Minas Gerais. Its
expansion has been rapid from the start; in particular, between 1972 and
1982, its generating capacity increased from 1,100 MW to nearly 3,900 MW,
with the Bank making a substantial contribution by financing the 1,000 NW
Sao Simao hydroelectric plant. During the same period, owing to the
expansion of distribution networks, the number of customers rose from
about 500,000 to 1.9 million; about 50,000 or 11Z of the 450,000 rural
households in CEMIG's concession area are now supplied with electricity.
CEHIG's generating and transmission expansion programs are part of the
national Master Plan prepared by ELETROBRAS (para. 52) and consequently
part of the sector's least cost expansion. The Region assessed CEMIG's
investment program and its financing and found it to be satisfactory.
67.       CEMIG ranks among the best managed power companies in Brazil.
Policy is formulated by a ten-member Aduinistrative Council, which appoints
a seven-member Board of Directors to run the company. At the end of 1982,
the staff numbered 12,500, resulting in a favorable ratio of 152 customers
per employee. CEMIG has modern financial systems for planning and
budgeting purposes; its accounting and billing systems are also
satisfactory.
68.       CEMIG maintains a training center regarded as one of the best in
Latin America. It provides training in operational maintenance of electric
power systems to medium-level staff from other Brazilian companies.
Nevertheless, as exchange restrictions currently impede foreign travel, a
small amount of the proposed loan has been allocated for training abroad
(Loan and Project Summary). About 50% of this allocation would go for
training in rural electrification. In the future, CEMIG will share with
less advanced utilities its experience in design and implementation of
rural electrification programs (Sections 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 20 -
69.       In the late 1970s, CEMIG's tariffs declined in real terms;
together with lagging demand growth and much higher cost of borrowing,this
undermined the traditionally sound financial position of the company and
brought down its rate of return to 7.8% in 1980. In these circumstances,
the Bank agreed in 1981 with the parties involved in the South-Southeast
power distribution project of 1978 (Loan No. 1538-BR) on a revision of
CEMIG's investment and financing plans, an increase in CEMIG's power rates,
and additional equity contributions to CEMIG by the State of Minas Gerais
and ELETROBRAS. As a result of that agreement and the agreement of
September 1981 with the Federal Government on power rates (para. 45),
CEMIG's financial position improved decisively. However, the improvement
proved momentary, because of a further slow-down in demand and delays in
putting the agreed power rate increases into effect. By 1982, the
financial position of the company worsened. Its rate of return was 5.9%.
A large proportion of its debt is in foreign currency and was affected by
the 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro in February 1983.
70.       Starting in 1984, rising sales and higher tariffs stemming from
the application of the agreements referred to in para. 45 should result in
progressively higher revenues. Due to recent additions to generating
capacity, CEMIG will not have to invest in the mid-1980s large amounts of
capital in power generation and transmission. Thus, during the period of
execution of the proposed project, CEMIG would be expected to meet a
progressively larger proportion of its investment requirements from net
internal cash generation. To ensure satisfactory financial performance,
the provisions of past Bank agreements relative to loans to the Brazilian
power sector, dealing with power rates, and the provisions of the 1978
Project Agreement with CEMIG (Loan No. 1538-BR), dealing with debt service
coverage and new major investment, have been repeated in the legal
documents on the proposed loan (Section 6.01(h) of the draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Sections
4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement with CEMIG). The
agreements between the Federal Government and the Bank on the financial
rehabilitation of the electric power sector (para. 45) will also apply.
71.       COPEL was established in 1954 to plan, build and develop electric
power facilities in Parana. It has grown rapidly to match growing demand
and has absorbed most of the other utilities in the State; currently, it is
responsible for 85% for electricity supply in Parana. At the end of 1982,
COPEL had an installed generating capacity of 1,660 MW and served
approximately 1.2 million customers.  COPEL's generating and transmission
expansion programs are part of the National Master Plan prepared by
ELETROBRAS (para. 52) and, consequently part of the sector's least-cost
expansion. About 75,000 or 17% of the 450,000 rural households in Parana
are now supplied with electricity; of these 65,000 by COPEL and the rest
mainly by cooperatives. Within the National Expansion Program COPEL is to
construct one hydroplant of 1,260 MW capacity, several transmission lines,
and substations and connections to about 580,000 new consumers in the
period 1984-1988. At present, due to slower than expected demand growth,
it is revising its investment proposals and deferring by two years the
construction of a hydroelectric scheme, which is the largest single item in



- 21 -
the plan. The Region assessed COPEL's investment program and its financing
and found it to be satisfactory. COPEL regards the proposed project as the
first stage of an expanded long-term rural electrification program.
72.       COPEL is well organized, and efficiently and competently
managed. Policy decisions are made by a seven-member Administrative
Council, which includes- three State Secretaries, a representative of
ELETROBRAS and a representative of Parana's business comunity. The
President of the company and its department heads constitute a Board of
Directors appointed by the Council. At the end of 1982, COPEL's staff
totaled 8,500, of whom 50% were professionals. In the past seven years the
ratio of customers per employee rose from 118 to 138. COPEL has good
financial planning, budgeting, accounting and management information
systems, and efficient and well developed customer services.
73.       Through careful recruitment and proper training, COPEL has built
up a competent and motivated working force. Its training program is
designed for supervisory, technical and financial personnel, and is
comprised of in-house and external training. Nevertheless, in view of the
exchange restrictions, which currently limit foreign travel, a small amount
of the proposed loan has been allocated to finance fellowships for
technical staff, technical assistance and imported teaching materials (Loan
and Project Summary). Similar to CEMIG, COPEL will assist other utilities
in preparing and executing rural electrification projects (Section 2.08 of
the draft Project Agreement).
74.       Despite heavy investment and a widening rate base, COPEL's rate
of return exceeded 10% in the mid-1970s. Beginning with 1978, however, the
rate of return has declined; in 1982, it was 6.3%. For a utility of its
size, COPEL still hes a reasonable financial structure; however, this was
unfavorably affected by the February 1983 devaluation, because of sizeable
indebtedness in foreign currency and a relatively short average term of the
debt.
75.       After absorbing the effect of the February 1983 devaluation,
COPEL's finances are expected to improve during the period of execution of
the proposed project owing to increasing earnings. To ensure satisfactory
financial performance, the provisions of past Bank agreements relative to
loans to the Brazilian power sector, dealing with power rates, and the
provisions dealing with debt service coverage and new major expansion along
the lines of the Project Agreement with CEMIG of 1978 (Loan No. 1538-BR),
have been repeated in the legal documents on the proposed loan (Section
6.01(h) of the draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement and Sections 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement
with COPEL); the 1979 Loan Agreement with COPEL (Loan No. 1721-BR) would be
amended in order to maintain uniform financial covenants for both
beneficiaries. The agreements between the Federal Government and the Bank,
on the financial rehabilitation of the electric power sector (para. 45)
will also apply.
Cost and Financing
76.       The cost of the project has been estimated at US$585.2 million,
including the front-end fee. The CEMIG and COPEL sub-projects, which



- 22 -
include small training components (paras. 68 and 73), would have a base
cost of US$237.7 million and US$190.5 million, respectively, whereas the
rural electrification study is expected to cost US$500,000 (Loan and
Project Summary).  Base costs reflect prices in June 1983, and include
engineering and supervision. Physical contingencies were calculated by the
Bank at a rate of 10%. Price contingencies were applied to base costs plus
physical contingencies, and for the foreign cost component were estimated
at the following annual escalation rates: 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7%
for 1985, and 6% for 1986 and thereafter. Price contingencies on local
costs, which are expressed in US$dollar terms equivalent, were estimated
assuming that the exchange rate is to be devalued pari passu with domestic
inflation through 1984 and according to the difference between domestic and
international inflation thereafter. These figures in conjunction with the
forecasted disbursement pattern, result in a price contingency of about
24%.
77.       The foreign exchange component of the total cost amounts to
US$243.3 million, or 42%. The proposed Bank loan of US$222.8 million,
including the front-end fee of US$555.6 thousand will cover 38%. The
balance would be provided through co-financing. CEMIG and COPEL together
would contribute to the local cost the equivalent of US$111.5 million and
rural consumers the equivalent of US$230.4 million (Loan and Project
Summary). While rural consumers contribute about 39% of the total cost of
the project, they would be expected to finance 50% of the cost of
connections; this compares with 70-85Z, which the beneficiaries currently
charge for connecting consumers, and would provide an incentive to
participate in the project.
78.       To help their prospective customers, CEMIG and COPEL are making
arrangements with state and commercial banks for medium- or long-term
credit to help finance part of the connection costs to be borne by rural
consumers (Section 2.01(c) of both draft Project Agreements). Moreover,
the Government agreed during negotiations to establish a rediscount
facility at the Central Bank, which will amount to US$160 million to
provide financing to rural consumers to be connected by the project
(Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
79.       To support in turn the ability of CENIG and COPEL to make their
financial contribution to the cost of the project, the States of Minas
Gerais and Parana, as major shareholders, would - at least until the
Closing Date of the proposed loan - reinvest most or all dividends
received, and invest the proceeds of the LUEE tax allocated to them, in the
capital stock of the beneficiaries (Section 2.03 of both draft Shareholder
Agreements). The State of Minas Gerais would further invest US$30 million
per year in CEMIG's capital in 1984, 1985 and 1986.
Execution of the Project
80.       CEMIG and COPEL would be responsible for engineering and
supervision of their respective sub-projects; their technical staff has
demonstrated high professional standards in working on previous Bank-



- 23 -
financed projects. Larger works would be built under local contracts and
smaller works carried out by the beneficiaries' own staff, as is normal
utility practice. The training programs would be anaged by CEMIG and
COPEL training centers. ELETROBRAS would retain a qualified consulting
firm to do the rural electrification study under the supervision of its
Planning and Engineering Department. The cost of consultants has been
estimated at about US$7,300 per man/month including subsistance and travel
expenses.
81.       CEMIG and COPEL have agreed to establish monitoring pr'^ rns to
survey a representative sample of farms before, during and after project
execution, in order to evaluate the impact of electrification on farm
output and productivity, consumption of oil products, and living conditions
(Section 2.06 of both draft Project Agreements).
Procurement
82.       Equipment and materials for constructing rural distribution
networks financed under the proposed loan would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines, through international competitive bidding, except for
special equipment (not exceeding 2% of the foreign cost of each
sub-project) which would be purchased through limited international
tendering. As in previous power loans, Brazilian suppliers whose bids
contain components manufactmred in Brazil equal to at least 50Z of the
value of the bid would be given a margin of preference of 15% or the
applicable fmport duties, whichever is lower (Schedule 4 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
83.       About US$215 million equivalent of equipment and mat:rials to be
fina-aced by the proposed loan would be acquired through ICB and about 60Z
of the value of the contracts placed after ICB may eventually be awarded to
Brazilian suppliers. Equipment, materials and services not financed by the
proposed loan would be procured locally under the normal procedures of the
beneficiaries which are satisfactory. Reserved procurement with a total
cost of US$58.3 million is not expected to have adverse effects on project
costs or project execution, as the number of Brazilian suppliers is large
and their prices are generally competitive. The cost of such reserve
procurement was excluded from total project costs when the Bank loan amount
was determined. Technical and administrative services required for the
procurement of goods would be performed by the staff of CEMIG and COPEL
which has had ample experience in this respect.
Disbursement
84.       As CEMIG and COPEL are currently executing Bank financed projects
in which distribution works are included, documents acceptable to the Bank
for the procurement of most of the distribution equipment and materials are
already available and bid invitations may be issued without delay. Both
beneficiaries expect disbursements to build up quickly in 1984 and be
completed in five years. Nevertheless, in view of the disbursement profile
for Bank financed power distribution projects in Brazil, it appeared
prudent to allow for an additiorrtl year and set the Closing Date at June
30, 1990.



- 24 -
85.       Disbursements would be fully documented and would be 100% of
foreign expenditure on imported equipment and materials, or the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured goods, for the sub-projects; lOZ of foreign
expenditure on imported teaching materials and fellowships; and 100X of the
services of consultants for the rur-. electrification study and for the
CEMIG and COPEL projects.
86.       In order to reduce the interval during which the beneficiaries
would finance the Bank's share of locally procured project items with their
own resources, a Special Account with an initial deposit of up to US$20
million would be opened at the Central Bank of Brazil (Section 2.02 and
Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The beneficiaries would be
entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiroE from the Special Account upon
presentation to the Bank of Statements for expenditures of the project.
Conversion from cruzeiros into dollars would be made at the exchange rate
that prevailed on the date the expenditures on the project were made. The
Central Bank would forward those statements to the Bank, which would then
replenish the Special Account.
Benefits and Risks
87.       The CEMIG and COPEL sub-projects would result in important
benefits to the economy. In both Minas Gerais and Parana, past experience
demonstrates that rural electrification does significantly raise
agricultural output and that the net benefits from irrigation and
mechanization are high. In the areas to be electrified, electric power
would gradually replace amounts of mechanical energy produced as well as
energy generated with diesel motors, thus reducing consumption of fuel and
diesel oil in line with the objectives of national energy policy. Rural
electrification would stimulate the development of agro-industries, which
would derive substantial benefits from increased agricultural output and
from fuel substitution. Moreover, living conditions on the land
would improve significantly and the rural population would be more swiftly
integrated into the mainstrean of national life.
88.       On the basis of detailed surveys of farms already electrified and
with Bank assistance, CEMIG and COPEL prepared economic justifications of
their perspective sub-projects which take into account the benefits from
the incremental sales of electricity, fuel substitution and increases in
agricultural production attributable to the project.  Such analyses show
economic rates of return over 13%. However, as costs and benefits of the
subprojects cannot be easily segregated from those of the investment
programs of the beneficiaries, an economic rate of return was calculated
for each investment program as a whole. Since it is not possible to
quantify properly all the economic benefits for the investment programs,
the incremental r venues have been used as a proxy for economic benefits.
These are measured through the growth of sales valued at the yearly average
tariffs and the investment programs of the beneficiaries show economic
rates of return of 11%. However, since tariffs are administratively
determined and not established or the basis of market forces, they are
probably lower than what consumers are willing to pay and they may be



assumed to understate the full economic return on the investment programs.
It is important to ascertain also, the degree to which other consumers will
have to subsidize the rural electricity customers and to formulate
guidelines for this purpose. These matters would be addressed in the
proposed study and should help define future policies in this increasingly
important field (para. 63).
89.       The project as such does not present special risks, given
appropriate arrangements for assisting rural consumers in financing their
contribution to its cost (para. 78). Both the borrower and the
beneficiaries, however, have been affected by the financial problems of the
power sector. These are being addressed through a program of tariff
increases and cost reduction measures agreed between the Government and the
Bank which will progressively improve the financial condition of the power
sector (para. 45).
PART V - LEGAL INS TS   D ATRMORITY
90.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras S_A. - ELETROBRAS, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the draft Shareholder
Agreements between the States of Minas Gerais and Parana, and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreements between the Bank, and CEMIG and COPEL, the draft
supplemental letter on the Revenues of the Beneficiaries (similar to that
approved by the Executive Directors on May 11, 1982 in the context of the
loan for ELETROBRAS power distribution project), and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
91.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be: (a) the execution and
delivery of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the borrower, the
beneficiaries and the respective States; and (b) that the Rural
Electrification Unit has been established by the borrower with adequate
organization, functions and responsibilities and the head of such unit has
been appointed.
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMEUDATION
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. CLausen
President
Attachments
November 16, 1983
Washington, D. C.
s



BEST COPY AVAILBLE
-27 -                                                 ANNE I
Page 1 of 5
man                   - SLia  rDnmlmS IIX  5a
aismm a =Mrs Scz          a    SlD m ) I.
mu                cmu~~~DO   amater musM1x) lb -
,,0!                               min. GI D n           MIDIILE !tiE
JIMA  197A        a1u      Z AT. AMEICWAS CAXIU          50503
TOFU,                           3512.5      3512.0     352.0
*muLD1U..                      s1421.3      l13.2      2203.5
amp vim CAPIt CuS                   33.0       61.0      3220.0           2611.2                   25.
- 0r ma  canu
CXulStS 0o CIL U*SVALI!          ]35.0       S77.0     112.0           t107.6                   ISU.S
muiLTM An vim UUT
opauA2mn.oHD-tat (TUSASIs)  n2!%*    9557.0   l20l.O
BMW NrATO   CZ or ILTa)                      55.9       6S2              65.9                     47.0
WoIDLAfl  Ji TX= 2000 oDL)                            t7
S o POMULAUO CUL)                          2".0
TM S      O   FOP. flY.10 -
Wi  mi, Xl-                      a.s       11.3        13.9             35.6                    *2.o
m  s33 ML Amt I&=               44.8        M48        53.6              .z                    t57.2
10131*210 AmI STaJCIIU CZ)
0-14 15                        43.6        62.7       41.1             40.1                    31.9
1S-" ISm                        5mg        !5.3         .4             55.8                     m0.g
65hAD0VE                         2z6        3.1        3.5              4.1                      7.2
3oWUATIU Can  RATU  C:2)
Trn                             341        2.3        2.1              2.3                      L.I
onAR                             3.3        4.7         3.9              5.7                     3.4
Ce aimQ RM cM TM035)              42.7       35.0        30.s            31.S                     25.0
Cm=     s Usw   s naz (ME TWOUS)  12.9       10.3        3z               ILI                      9.1
GRSS nmo.acuohl KAlE               3.0        2.4         1.9             Z.0                      1.7
VAUELT R.AaNWC
ACEtOS ANWUL  TMWC)                -.      111.0      203.6Ue
1am : lltE -.ii  .mx             ..     - .-.
- MS m      -lmIf   L
JIKRX Or FOOD PROD. PER CAnut
(1969-71-100)                     89.0      102.0       123.0           113.0                    16.4
FM CAPIT SUM 0
CA.0tmz,s CZ Or 3R0K3LZWI5)    106.0       104.0,     1og09.            1                      129.6
cin0ft135 (GRAMS   M  DAY)      44.0       M20        61.0            67.3                     92.3
OF 1i11  A5D. AND PIUlSE       35.0        34.0       34.0/4           34.1                    34.6
W-D CNS I-4) U01 IAiM             19.4       12.5        4.9              5.3                     10.4
mlm
Ll   WZCr. AT 3IR2R (TRANS)       34.7       55.9        43.6            ".6                      67.2
ZIlWTr 333?. RM;CEc  TIMM)       113.2       93.6       7.4              62.6                     71.4
C5S TO SAFE UAI! (bP)
1am"                              ..        55.o       77.t             76.
033*                              ..        78.0       66.87            n.s.
ma.            -                  ..       23.0        56.d?           44.3
A5S TO EZcA DI1SPOSL
(I or boF0LATI0r8
orTA                              ..        5     o   64r.3.            5.6
0na1                               .        M 0         3.77:          69.H
FmM.L..                                     24.0       3l.17           298
POIUAD0  FM PUt S[CIAM          267.0      213O        1700.01f        1774.0                   1094.3
W . Km   MSIMC PERSON          ZO.O        1t2.0       ao.077O        102.2                     762.s
10. PM  0P?S TA. in
TotSL                         3no.0        270.0      230.01.          47.                     33.o0
0Una                           266.0          .0         ..           467.5                    2160
ma.       ~..                        ..         ..           1921.6                      .
A SXKlumS MM NOSPZIL 3O             ..         .          ..             27.2                     20.0
AVERACC SE  We M5
TOL                              3.1        3.3         4.91.
guam                              ..6                   4k.77e:
t.                                ..         5.2        5.7;              ..
*is  mo. ov tasDuIEo'
tOTal...                            14           .                ..
35,*                           ..        1.0          ..
ama.Za .7. ..                                                    ..                       .
TOMS                             37        626         4.
vow                               ..        75.6       3S..
KUR. IL.                                      .6       20.6



BEST WOPY AVAILABLE    28-    IA
-    -                             ~~~~~~page 2 of 5
BA                       uCazL tL tCUSa   0ala s5
TIL               -rAWEw Is (VE                              AVEKEiLS) l4
MML                                        COUT osr    Uzsrussl -b
"Dom DOlE StOOLS Jolt
tiecOL     197&  Esfflf.]T        ur4?. attICA & CAStS
A_uS?C vsmw    RA T50 IO4 0                                3.0o           105.0                    1lO.2
MALE                  97.0        64.0                        1.O93.06.3               107.2
F:EUL                 93.0        11.0       93. tML           WA.
SECOWDAY: TUTAL                  1l.0       26.0        32.0jg,          40.0                     56.5
1ALE                  IL.0        Z6.0)       Z9.0jL           35.6                     63.4
FLE                    10.0       27.0       35.              41.2 
VOCATISIL C OF SECOlMt)            1.         16.7        59.2J..b         34.0                     22.4
PwPIL-TEAOIEI ar37
PEISAT                           B33.0      28.0        Z6.0             30.7                     2.7
s    aWD*T                       13.u        13.0       14.01h           16.7                     2.1
AfUT LIZx=   AZE CZi               a1.0o     64.          76.0             79.5                     69.7
aS E              s   POP           7.6       16.6        50.1             45.6                     52.9
aDao  aecavtats/asa   tow '?OF     65.4      103.4                        ZZS.2                    16S.5
TV IMEVERS/TmUS4AS  POP            14.5        44.3       22.7            106.3                     4.2
MWSV*ER (.flA*j* GtiAL
hBIEuESr) ClRz. Tc.AL
7E   OIISAJID PoCuICATIN          39.1       35.6        *4.61h           64.1                     96.3
CIMA ASSUAL AITECASCJCAPITA         4.4        2.0         1.9/k            2.9                      2.9
tTAL LAIIOR MOSCE CTfWUS)       Z3326.0    30U11.0    35253.0              2
FME    (PERCT)                   17.2       20.1        28.5             24.8                     34.5
ACICUalLIE (PERCEST)             51.9        45.6       29.9             31.3                     40.7
IWss  (PERCE)                    14.8       16.3        24.4             23.9                     23.4
tur A.                           32.1        31.7       29.3             31.3                     42.0
OLE                              5.7         50.3       50.9             49.5                     55.2
FEILE                            11.2        1Z.3       14.1             14.8                     2.1
ECO:OM   DEPENDECY RAIO             1.4        1.4         1.5              1.4                      0.9
; X 1< INCal
PERCENr OF P9IVATE ItdCL3lE
RHIGHEST  StOF S OUSLDS
NIIEsr ZUL OF MOUISENOLIJS       60.0        b3.5       62.0/c
mLEST 0 OF IWISOLDS               3.S        3.2         2.37.
T5 404 F or   SDIloDS            10.8        9.0         9.47;
ESTAa TED ASLUE PQVERIT INC
LE    USS PE CAPITA)
IIR*3                              ..          ..         ..            289.3                       .
RURA                               ..          ..      150.0/c          184.5
ESTIMATED RtELXTVE POvERTY L[ tE
LEVEL CUSS PEit CAPITA)
uRBA                               ..          ..      445.0/d          519.3                       .
RURAL                              ..          ..      332.677          372.1                    409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BEWS ASOLUTE
Frm= rLsxsm LLEL CZ)
RURAL                              ..          ..         .                 ..
Mr AVAILASL
NUT APPLICABLE
a   egroup  aeOrage. for each IndIcator ar populsetnen-wgte td *rltcbte t 1cn..  Covrae  of countries en-e  the
Indicatoer deend. on mv&aLeblUty Of data and s moc runform.
lb Uas1 otherwise noted. -faLa for 196- rofer to a   year betw    1959 a  1961; flfor 190  bcwsn  19 a
1971; and data for -Moet0 Reent EettmaLt  bet.ue 1979 and 198L.
Ic  1375; /d 1977; /a 1976; It 1974; I DegLinntg 1973 primry an  secondary eduatlon cover ae groups 7-14 and L5-L7
Lmated of 7-10 a-nd   I-iLn earlier year.; tLerefore eat recent eat-tas  a*re not comarable wlth earler data;
lh 1978.
NWa 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 29-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
mumm    .6 a,.. tinc
mom1, 4644    141_S- rw...6v666464..  .6.86666  6.6.1. 6    6    6   4.6464641,0   616.I.
6666-M  b_        .6 64  366.6 .606.6d&66d 466660.4..8   64   4666.661  6614614 8..1.86   6  66.   p.""q14,.    644466 t                       6   .
.tfl.16.66.I. 6266.6.686. 664 466 6866-ns                      -S66616.6864.68    6.6. 6e   RL. al- LIC    66.66,s  0   4166w.81 im.     64   6
6614666666 46-1414 6 606 -.6  w61.kt
I, T3 4...1-66366w  .6.6"6. 6-                                                                    - 614168.6.-4.11  67 P-.1 -6 g.6648
2sm1m-amc 466                                                                        14M .6    mEL  Eu   m .-L663.. -. Wbg..6.6.- .1.66..   666    66.6.44.
-2-  _~~~~~~ - v-&.                                              = :-. .66   46.4 -766.aw66661. .            66   6
6  11160103666  c- ..6..                                .. . 6614l6                 Ei66 (l664  2.63:   t-1J    -14.6666.  6L666.14666666.666666114, 6.61
low. 66"6  6646 144 A. 614  46664.8166   661 643. 61161486.t. .-14.66.l66ll                                       16  .6666614661  6664814 6L
1666. 16)6. .146614 J4,666I.   t1.   till                                   II     466 161 aLI.l2.l S    -146    .*664U66  61-632. - I, a      -
6               66L8~~~~d   666  7f8?1                                                                  461    266..614.sd   b   .64. y E1466 8.6.1.
11466666.66L-. C66.86  6.6-I666. - t. .6 S.! -lL   6164 666  6  86                       626 1Z.666  6    66  8661666..664  66;6
ROME)              -ft -4..~6361  6 6..6           -,64.6 LIE S. 1.. 6486
C.r66p6.666  .J66.4 6  264 4614               ~         6611  66..666466  16666144 3ft                         161441
Id661.66066 66.  94LOL.6 -..66  66666  66  .6r6666    6    6.6 666.dlll 6666666666  L6 66 L6 .'-64 86666
asymiis 46818.6  -.     T616. 6.6666  6.-I 6,646 6*   d666661                      6666 6. 684.6616666 .66666  .1616.661  .64                  16
p1U6  W 666.,    1.66 *066L  66614- 66384  .6  6148 666                            1664646  41118666  6666666  346 6668 .6-I.8.6.666
66 0  666.6- 666116.66461   66  -- 611 644 46                           6361.6-14                                                  --  
ILL. 46666181616 .6   6   666~66.66                                            666666      6..66.-866   - 66466..1 666 66  66
= 6.66. ."P-.a 646  666.P   66664                                                 46166.  .164  6646666   16  4666686  864468
6..66162  8666 6%0.666-666  614166..                                                 66661  61 61666  -46.61  .666466666646046
M66666..66686.86.. L68.6.4 .- 144 666                                           ..6 60*16667  666    143666   46661..6411.66.4416
66-1L6I66.I 866.1  6  3U 614                                                         6666*  61.   661.St!      6 8. 6.61.    8.66.6.  1.46.; .I661466
3618. I.66636461.                                                    6861-666.61 6  6  666666;*6866666.*66466
CtId  . 6.B-t  ft 1.16. 6-.4  C6666. d-    M,66 66 866.666  2666.61764.t
P.PA- 0; 8066  66  6.                                                              616.6  661668.86   1.3.46.).1686661.1666
14..636.6  3660 36670  6  86                        VI.6616*66 666166 66666. 6,-                                 14. 666.466-  66        -664 -6.14 1
Ina.                                                                                  11666   66--.6666.16.    163  666  6666d64166  6 -L6 63  66676666466  E.66.66.66.6  666
66.66666136366 661366863.60. 686.646. 6.6 3610-63.               m    ,n2 66.41. .      
p.16.61418668 6666.6...)   .6168 -6~1  6.66  66..6.t.6466  386.6 666  ....6 1- 466661L.6*(.6  6  604.  .616  1
664.6.  .66).6.6..-6114.666486636666.6   6.31664411.6   6  4*
18. 6686 6.6 '66  86..6..64  - .16.6.6 61.6 66666 6668266666 -6.14.LL
...263.6  116I  .16. l 6668  466..  &_68666-.66.6614 4w                                          a]  v.8. 816   666606      W-" 661.46  6666.1 266.,1 - .
ll.q.Lm-W         6666  66 -6.8  6626666           611  146  6.               M*U686., .8666-611..
666664.                                                                 886666666  146 666666 666666641 .1  .666666  W8 6666114  66I
66  8666.6668.6.6.  .614646    66,-6 6  .61                                    686686666666686666666  .6.-  66666 T  6686
8W   86161.6                                                                        *6666j*66 01- .6 .    63  6.6336666.6....668666..66.
683a   L.6.L. 6S566  6616*. Is.le661.64 d6.866 66666  1t.61666646.36.16. 666664665 40 -66.6                                        L, 46661  6266
*36666 6.4 66. 666.66.4.43.  4666666*  6666666666 6 -s666 8866 6-3     .66-666
14614 -  681.66666 6*6661  666146 ; 66*._. Is") _64 1616
366 Ms6  66666  6166   66sm        66..6.6. ...        ...64 6614                  166.6 66. 6 666  I66..6-). 6...66    66339  6.666   166    6
4d6.ML4 .166*A.86611..6666 4.666  66.646   6.8.-8P-6611.6166.   3666..6  666  666   6
666666 lb     6666  666.6  66 666I66668 ,6161  66. .66*                                66.-16188  601  36   ..
61161.  446  0   64666.01   6..  .466E.1.                                            1346666 "642  426666  .6686666666   646666
666141466666 1414146666266     6,6666366.66  66.8.6463666666.6662. 446 666  6 6868. 66667.606661
It6667 -66.66 .66468   6666.6666666.66.1663163-666866666636666814.3m66446.
636 414 06 466663666166 .6  .66666646. 6666366668610 466666 6.614*36  364666666666668) - 64666 6666*6.636686.*666666666.6. 66668-.66666
VP41.46866;  146. 366 .648648.0366avc6.116641466866.6   6.161666.  46
6.  .p3  .  wILy .63 .666666  . .6-6663  136  6-666.36  666   .6
6.6 666616 63 80   6  6.66663  8866  616..8.                                      186.6.66   6666    64               6.0668-66616166
6661660. 86 .1  66.366.6  63.61624 6,6)6  6*66466866663.6       666,2, 466  146314.664666666.6.1. 0  6661"'66."'.66 W
6166     E0   6386   *66        6   6406161616   -66664.6   666  666   .66 6H6266616666666666
666.66314 . 666*66.6666.68414466316666.  266                              686  666 64  86 466.  1266v.6-St0 66 6W1.6 lb"866I6616  661
.666566666  6.6  614  6686 .  61661468 L66.  -6.66. 14  26 nr              61636666666L666   6661661.6436   34864
- 1461416666666  61466.666 61414  66664.6*8666646 666 26666  6661461431466 66666668148166.6666



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                 -3.of 5
-30-                                                          ip*o5
ECOIWSiC I1IDCATOUS
p.  tin    :  120.5 Mllo  (1931)
Or r.r Capita: 1132.Z20 (1981)
Indaator                                Amount                      veree Anul iceamo  (2)                   shre of CDP at lWrhat Prices (2)
(will.n  Ms Current)              (at tseant 1970 Prices)                         (at Curent pr2ces)
1982 Of             1965-70    1970-75    197S40    1931-U             1970       1975      1962 b/
lbtional Acconta
Gross Do_eatic Product /a                       212.000                7.J       10.1        6.9        1.0           100.0       100.0     100.3
Agriculture                                    35.333                1.9        5.7        4.7        2.8            10.2       10.9       14.3
7.391               9.2        116        7.6       -2.0            35.8       37.2       31.8
services                                      133.106                3.0       10.7        6.8        2.1            54.0       51.9       53.9
Gonsawe1ou                                      215.940                7.7        9.3        5.7        0.5            77.3       76.6       74.7
Cross Inovtc                                     bO.755                9.4       14.5        5.2        0.1            22.7       21.3       Z1.0
xport  f tods and UWS                            22.180                8.2      1.Z         7.3        4.3             1.7        7.5        7.7
Isports of Goads nd ms                           24.613               14.5       17.2        2.8       -3.9             7.2       11.4        o.5
Grom  _lstic Savlng.                             56.317                7.9       12.9        6.1        1.8            22.Z       23.4       Z0.2
eount                  Average AsuL lscreess  (2i)           Cospositcis of VArchandse TrAds (2)
(milli.o as5  urrnt)           (ast C tt 1970 Pries)                        Cat Curret Prie-)
1932               1970-73        1975-30     9l61-1                 1970        1975       1932
NerchandLue  Trads
IWtchsadise Exports                             20.164              11.1            7.7            2.3                 100.0                  100.0
Primrv c/                                      J 915               8.3            1.1            0.8                  76.7        62.7       56.1
unufactuns di                                 10 984              28.2           18.2            5.6                  22.5        34.3       43.9
ISrchandise Xwarts                              19.397              14.8           -3.3            1.2                 100.0       100.0      100.0
Food (cereals)                                 1.001              -6.7           17.5            8.8                   4.5         3.0        9.6
Fetrojemse                                    10 12b               7.6            4.3          -11.0                  11.2        Z5.4       14.3
achitnery and Equipment 1                      3.Z7Z              15.2           -7.5            2.0                  36.Z        3Z.2       25.3
other                                          4.999              28.4           -1.9            4.3                  43.1        39.4       50.3
1975         1976          1977          1978          1379          W90             1931           1932
Prices ad  Tere of Trade
CDP Deflator (1970 - 100)                305.1        4"4.3         632.7         J95         1.399.4       2.724.6        5.696.8       11.108.o
Exchange Rate (CrSIUSS)                   3.1          10.6          14.1          18.1          26.9          52.7           93.1          130.0
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)          176.0        192.0         226.0         223.0         244.0         290.0          252.0          220.0
Isort Price Ind   (1970 - 100)          242.0         255.0         236.0         317.0         389.0         431.0          474.0          S22-0
Ter_ of Trade Index (1970 - 10O)         72.0          75.0          79.0          72.0          6.0           67.0           53.0           42.0
AP  of CUP
Cat current Cruniro prices)
1970           17             1-79           1980 E/      1981 ri  1932 it
Public Finance (Central CovernoEnt)
Current Revenu                                                             16.6           19.3            2.3             20.1         18.9    21.2
Corrent Expenditure                                                        14.4           15.8            17.6            19.8         20.2    25.4
surpiua (+) or deficit C-)                                                  2.2            4.0             3.2             0.3         -1.4      4.2
Capital Expsadltnre                                                         2.6            3.8             3.7             4.1          3.5      3.4
Financing (NeC)                                                             0.4           -0.2             0.5             3.9          4.9      7.6
1965-70          1970-75         1975-79             19S1-B6
Other Indatror
Otb? Crtb olte CX)                                                         7.7             10.7              5.8                 0.9
CGP per Capia Crrowth Rate (2)                                             4.6              7.7              3.0                -1.6
Energ Coauwption Credth Rate (2)                                           7.2              7.3              6.5                 -                                    a
1C01                                                                      2.9              3.0              3.9                18.3
M        Sarginal Savlg lats f/                                           20.5             25.7             22.7                 0.5
Isport Elticity  Li                                                        2.2              1.6              0.3                 4.5
4/  At  ar}kt prirea; copnta are n t domestic prodncts exproessd at factor coat end .1   not add due to ezelaobn of depreation and ind1iect
taxes lss subaidle.
bi  Eetl_te.
Includes coffee (bhe   nd soluble). other agricdtaralr products. ad minareas.
d    Includes  manfctured and asd-procesed producta.
Ineludes trnaortateon mterials.
i Th  1961-36 projectio. are calulasted oag the lst squares mthed.
ji   1960-1932 Include  _overnmt emxpeditures effected throuh the  nacary budget and mm  minor gerenut finds, a vll -  transfers to tbe
fdrul enterpries.
Novmber 14, 1983
Source: Conjuroura Econosica. ISV; Dae CGntral do Brazil; Brazil Standard IWdel (lorld Mak).



s"l~ ~ ~ ~~,N 41ma  Zsm a01oz!V-1Wr2                                      .           
* :ag) a-cs  *q~  ew it *Ua n-  ew wan  new
'4-*ee 1. n     - aeen
,AT_ "_ t_ - ---IT ilt
,*m-*     ) 1    O_ i_      tin  fij
- -t  n )SrP afd  q
-fat s% c -!- e-rn  p -n-a- .Tee    fleO t              . 4. r.
-yr aneemew is en-:.- p  *Dn.etm          R -  -n.      - e. -nt rami;
-nA      _     ^ VP,.       S
eatn.e_ pea_@_-a-al *_tpaea 
GS                                              on-'Se  -    ;n-.   sa(s seqs. wes-it1I
-41-41-t                                              .m  sle   . - _-e
1 s                                                     i of ut a.DI.-
c-z        m          m         LIZ       Ile        rlse    *3-w nu-rz                                                  cmsat
rt            sr        ,*e        "r         .-,   am.   ,e p a, 
vi      r:         Vt~~~~~WZ  avt       clt        I'l       29        2Iwsnwjeegehe nwa
cc            *s-       ci         92s        c-c       i-   -    ct          i-s                                             ie!m.jSL.
. ^ - l  s-a     C         iti        rs ,   ra            cs         gjmie e
-           i-t        Jr&GI N                                    ml o  c-ti                              n c-  rat          aSt  w
V             ra         rs0.01                          rot c-it rD  oI M                                            e -@      *A I't
rs:       tlz        r                    .         *-         *a                   i;) new a~qf  -   e%ee-rA
Vr            r         Irv         'V        I,t       o02         2         4                                          AsezD.      -3*
(mloe          SI-t)    CzUtS1    tShiuj       tit-ER    (ttS '    tCL .,)  ( C2  &itt)                                   j      J-ea._ q
ittiet       tier,:     f ltt     L9tI1      tit        et s      tW         Set',                              ettes canoe. 3S5 Tjm
vvt          nlo.      Zs t2      sCI:       ecm's      tant      Gat        saul2                                   ....... S    .eet.
uiir          AK         .tt        aK        ee         mgt       cC     ot   aa
ate           Wi        itt        at"        tet        Mtl        mg        Se                                    tff  ,k
Il.           tot.       aa.       ZCIe       tiVot    zart        st         wl Vtneemt  flanni p-   mom
i             .l          YD CI CWD UI *tl-   n:i        a         ta 0912   I tt                           n a   s-        i . m*- e m   M=e
a b1up-    * " rV   r       t   rowt          welb  it             owe        &W[                               (4l-_ _1)"
east!z        caCIG     imtti    ints2t       minio    tire         MISS      IWO                               (L-.I )ne   e.eea
SilOZZ        t-CI ZCI-t            Mti2      tIt%t       0-t1  Z     t'  C u-                                            5-        e
tarts    -   sac<s      ttnrs       mert      con        uir:       miern     ruC                                        edl  ate
Cn U4 2       ( (IC tZ )  (I tt )  Z J e t ) t ritt )    1 5l 0 C )  h mtr w )  t   ) D - I' ;                                      t
Got           Ztts      iett       marms      ton         ce ln* t5:2                                                    aa itSi i_O T1
;z IK         ottce     ORVK       stt2C      tao        "Slt ttn 'ui                                        1esmW fAM"   i- attnd
WE:.,         tittt       ' " i     m ttis    sceN       torg      tEwa       Mcr"                    peqP_ pflaeneae    ep
a          t,I wt't            a 'Z-      t1i'e       ac:c1       teO        as         %sq-      'u1:-      "a         an                                        -3--' twide  An
on l-  co-t-       oat-       ott-      ss-            it.       wit         i_         t-        Lis-        rt-      Si-                                4      3-IP. -I-       a
, sw a t})  tI V o- )  nI t t a -  ( a l ot -)  (U ( C -iJ  - mc 2 - i J m 5ll i   d I t ts1 1 -)  t tl' 2 - i  (1 92-' )   (0 tt1 - )   [ t N t-                       *   _
ttt5      WCf  z    tti        Ittol      tee,      Ji cut*s    o'Ctt         "Z's      aiDlOt     a's       ins        Ktt                                           isa) ant I'm
stO'2-    ite2-      oNz -     cm a-    mottn-         USAot-    *ilZI-    Itoiol-    sis-        AC0r- Lo-            en'o-                                  . s ea   I
- -      -          -               t        "I         ml        if         -          I         t                                             b     jeu la
stC(-    so             -      *- tort-  cVi-  arcr- AnI-         al s-      a  i-      cot i-    aii-    utm -         sari-                                 ealaa a-A
ZauIu-:  (Lirli-)  acni -I   Ucri -3  (siwuc-)          (641--I   lIc i(N-    CsllC,.)   (slt-)   ((01 -)   foiem-)   (a119-5 (.SeS nexetl ae. 1te)
(tiN:-   aCt:S-    tlifl-    aria-         en:b-        eats-      two-      Its'"-    zsil-        rztt-    aCt'l-    ccltl-                                         _l --- VW
s"es z-  Uflea    ctaOCsi-  cste- *smst-                 ma       tittl-   OFsog            t     ct*s-    r      o    otVti                                         we  A. eat.
iaN:z    Mes        a oi t       z   lma-a  "ra         ti12      irc_       sarl       st1        OWtS       1rom      asa                                           esa m- esats
tin'-    nras-      nra-       ECar-     sKet:-         ctrtt-    tern12-    eiaoot-   tart-       netl-     mIeN9-     siN-                           mtasPee "pe-I             O"iah
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(81 ar   tu                                                                        aL%-sw
I7 stns                                                                      -D _
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ti tittt  am_                                  e 
aeaaua teSaje. 15 055 meititit            Lisa) emtit: ilott     -wetiered
-U-
31OUII1VAV AIDO IS]9



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. STMI*JARY STATDEr OF LAS
(As of September 30, 1983)
hAunt less  Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                                Carpose  ancellations  bursed
(US$ Nillions)
Fifty-six loans fully disburse                                     2,018.9
923     1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -     Por                   125.0        0.0
Itumbiara
1008     1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do          Power                  81.0        1.4
Sao Francisco - COESF
:n67    1974  Brazll                          Education               21.2         .6
1075     1975 Brazil                           Roads                 110.0        8.8
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Industry                95.0        4.0
1152     1975  companlha Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0       14.7
1153     1975  Brazil                          Agriculture            23.0        0.0
1171     1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Patiista     Railways               75.0        2.9
1195     1976  Brazil                          Rural Development      12.0        4.8
1207     1976  Brazil                          Feeder Roads           55.0        8.4
1249     1976  Brazil                          Agriculture            40.0        0.0
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0       30.2
1343     1977  ElETRD)SUL                      Power                  82.0       11.6
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development      42.0        5.5
1406     1977  Petrobras FertiLizantes         Fertilizer             52.0        .5
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer             55.0        1.5
Grande S.A. - VAIBEFWIL
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education              32.0       17.2
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development      17.0        4.0
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Eabitacao     Sewerage              110.0       59.0
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development      24.0       16.6
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                      Pbwer                 130.0       31.4
1557     1978  Brazil.                         Roads                 114.0       62.2
1562     1978 COPESUL                          Petrochemicals         85.0        2.3
1563     1978  Brazil                         UJrban Transport        88.0       13.6
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. EFtension      100.0       45.4
1589     1978  Brazil                         Rlural Development      37.0       22.3
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Sites and Services     93.0       38.8
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0        42.5
1660     1979 Valesul Aluminio SA.             Aluminum               78.8        0.0
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development      26.0       19.4
1720     1979 Brazil                           Urban Developmen       70.0       44.8
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                 109.0       44.3
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      40.0       28.0
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrgati                28.0       11.3
1730     1979 Brazil                           Roads                 110.0       58.7



AN?M IT
- 33                               Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1983)
Ahount less UThni-
Loan J   Year           Borroer                    Purpose      Cancllations buried
(US$ Nllorm)
1822     1980  BrazillUNDE                     Pollutlon Control      58.0       57,2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           130.0       56.8
1824    1980  CUEE                             Pawer                 114.0       87.8
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport       159.0      135,5.
1850    1980  Banco Nactonal da Habitacao    Water Supply            139.0       63.7
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education              32.0       26.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development      63.0       58.0
1895    1980  ELETROSL                        Power                 125.0      105.8
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0       39.8
1939    1981  ELERODBRAS                       Power                  54.0       49.3
1965    1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport         90.0       71.2
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Eabitacao     Water Supply           180.0      135.7
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development  250.0       199.6
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            29.0       P3.0
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            60.0       46.6
2060     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            67.0       45.4
2061     1982  Brazil                          Health                 13.0        9.6
2062     1982  Brazil                          Highways              240.0      183.4
2116     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       22.4
2138     1982  ELErTWIRAS                      Power                 182.7      165.5
2163     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       23.3
2170     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development     123.9      111.6
2177     1982  Brazil                          Rural Development      42.7       39.1
2193     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development       8.9        8.0
2196     1982  CVRD                            Iron Ore             -304.5      205.4
2224     1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0      151.7
2225     1982  BNDES                           Development Banking   220.0      148.8
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply          302.3      273.6
2268     1983  Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                          Rural Developoent      67.8       62.7
2343/1   1983  Brazil                          Urban Development      52.7       52.7
Total                                               8,187.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                1,243.1
Total now outstanding                               6,944.1
Amount sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bark                              6,944.1
Total undisbursed                                              3,676.7
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described In a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
arn  circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                              - 34 _                                        U
3.L  NiE       C 110 IIIINS    Oft dswl      30. 196?
mme                                                                                                            _W  go US6 am
Obilger                                 %.of as_ &=
UP                 Em  do i1 Ca. de f           _         *miml -lpalm                                        2.0
mSe                     Lt SA.  u1-m  fqaL                                 Mr ad hr                           tin   _    *
V. 16. L PlIM    de ktll. S. A.                                               t      bm                       OAS       -       OAS
3al3w.Oad di 8adi. S. A. - Tbtrmu  e  i0do              New                                2.4       -       2AS
MD                          mfm  de Rinw ibicid. S. A.                                                        La.       -       1.3
:959~~~~mo 0 dl.   S. A.                                              IUP                                4          -      4A0
was72z            AmVlh. s. A.                         WD                                    1      J                  5      9M
mlrim             blM  * C1aa1m Catadm. S. JL                              Mip ad 1r                          3.7       341     7.13
/1l92              Mtmfutil. S. A. - laxbutda a fdf da ItIti               ilim                                  2      3.03    11.25
mg6                rtbmdmml IkU. S. A.                                       om                                         2.3     8.3
17                 bll_, S. A. *dotda                                                                         5.0       2J.    8gm
3W1                      , S. A.  mst a ado                                                                   430O      1.A4    G.0
371                MD nhie - Gida de chu1a  do 51t                        4u 5,0                                        -       4AS
IU72J197U11S    0    a_    de Cbemo ?acl  di de n                                                            iS*.14     6.70   VIAJ
"37 s4177/1Mt   a        a Sidia         da Qiubm -    =                   a                                 7  J7      IID    33.
r.-3               utial Imbc 04w1ao  1wf -10CM                             wd  lut badg                      3.00      -       5.00
193/1Y171   1       wm  de Dmnwvv            de f  o km uia - a   . S. L    i6s1 Mni   ad b1adzw             851 0.     .74    93J7
DA                    1     Vum. S. A.                                     a_bmi ad trmu lu 1qiFt             6.00      -       6.00
37         h         kl  de ID  T*anU. S. A.                                  3m                                        -      31.00
37511971           o       b     Zm     lad.                                6.1B                                        119     737
195                  0             S.A. Ltm                                                                   10_.      -       10.00
DK6                qtata rw*u=* - *b1 do Nx,mm, S. A.            LOOm                                        GAS       1.00    7.4
1961110            DmmC S. A. - 1o11 GAziam  do MxdJ                                                          16.m              16.70
377                -  A. ftuhctm lkchlzzzgf                               Mm adA Alaa  Cmtq.                2.00               mm.0
1977                     M       do sM     . _.                                                               isBm      -       150
378                om1 Sldiwula S.& T.=a ad Smel                                                              7.00      3.00    0.00
199                T&   do kadJ. mio  a Vulcaim. S. A.                     HAW 61m                           GOAD       3.     65.7
3sJ                Midr do brIrt S. A. - I401                                                                                   2A0
: r  dD    S5M - _M   - utm1dbzm, 1dtdu
S bh  do 01*ifit                   0b13U                                                 3.3      1.00    4.50
ES                 103mw. DmtEm diB   S. A. - SNM                          DM ad S                            3.00      -       s.00
130               lIE - apa kut* i eRlpnwIm                               Ohdla s ad                         10        2.0     1.00
i1                          MwArte S. A.                                    hd_m    ad        s                -        09      0.23
I1                    = 9da Qg*sm a tlEml S(A                                Stl1                            35.00      6.00    41.00
nm            P.1MiISua Tatdmkagdi                                    chm1s ad Mudadom1m                 43.0      3.A0    48.00
1"Nor.ad C-                                 1.  1.00 150
DII                     da hatmUem do Auda -                                  R ad bd                        35.30      3.00    8.50
1DU1               hlado                                                    <ad. ad                          46.0       4.00    50.00
Chou= cmz                                               amme ad Smutnmaf Smi Imau         40.        3.00    45.00
110                 wctd7-h  S. A.                                            y   t   in                     30.00      0.45    304                        6
110        ~        a  am h_ de Pazdcpa (X(                    _o  H1ia NADa                                   -        0.D     0.2D
DS                 A0m ftpdfim                                             ga  ad rM PWm.hg                   120               Lim
11Da *de do _l (bale                                                           06w1.                                    -       6.10 s
1.0                 U- 1. de rqmwn 5A.                                     Rip A _*a    Mduct                4736       3.50    51.O
D110      3          MISJ.                                                 la  ad red 11u11                    3.0      2.30    5.50
M                  cmw                                                     tnne ad Q untia  mmlz              35.00     -       3.00
utal  SM u g.                                                                               87.74   9D0.I
low Eaadltiim       .       bpa    ad Sm                                         603.04    13.32   622.36
litul Obtu 11. Ihd by INC                                                          6.30     742   372
_ _br 12.1 9       1211    216.D
rcft IY.l



- 35 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:      Approximately 12 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                CEMIG and COPEL with Bank
assistance
{c)  First Presentation to the Bank:    April 1982
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                  November 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:         November 1983
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:      February 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   (a)  The Federal Government, complying with the terms of the September
1981 agreement and further agreements reached during loan
negotiations will continue to increase power rates in real terms
and to undertake measures to reduce operating costs so as to
attain, for the power sector as a whole, a 10% rate of return by
1989.
(b) The Federal Government would ensure that CEMIG and COPEL would
earn a return on renumerable assets at least equal to the average
rate of return for the power sector (para. 45);
(c)  If tariffs for bulk sale of electricity generated at Itaipu were
to exceed the levels now assumed, the Federal Government would
promptly take all measures required to offset cost increases
arising from higher Itaipu tariffs and ensure that the agreed
rates of return are achieved (para. 48).



- 36 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) CEMIG and COPEL would consult with the Bank before incurring any
new debt and, during the execution of their respective
sub-projects, before undertaking an major expansion projects
(paras. 70 and 75);
(e) The Federal Government would establish at the Central Bank a
rediscount facility to be used for the purposes of the project,
and CEMIG and COPEL would arrange with state and commercial banks
for medium- and long-term credit to meet part of the cost of
connections to be borne by rural consumers (para. 78); and
(f) The States of Minas Gerais and Parana would reinvest the
dividends paid to them, and invest the proceeds of the IUEE tax
allocated to them, in the capital stock of C$MIG and COPEL
(para. 79).
(g) The OhTN index which is used in the revalution of assets of the
sector would accurately reflect domestic inflation. It was
agreed during negotiations that if for three consecutive months
the adjustments made to the ORTN index for the 12-month period
immediatley preceding each month is below the variation in
domestic inflation for the same period by more than at least 10
percentage points, commitments and disbursements from the loan
could be suspended (para. 44).
2.   Additional conditions of effectiveness would be the execution and
delivery of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the borrower, and the
beneficiaries and the respective States and the establishment of the Rural
Electrification Unit within ELETROBRAS and the appointment of its head
(para. 91).
.



W      iV(VENEZUELA    - r@          ('
{ F~~ a t .ISURINAMefM~-',
COLO M  B I A'                           - 7              j
___         9-ROVRA}k   (OR AI/  /-
>_o~~ n                         '"-_.,'A
4)P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fI
.s~~ ? ',/ - C Ne 
AC/                         Q       f       1        \ 
..-.                 -L. .RR!70k -,I
ERU                \                                   T .
i/f)~G R                C
Cuicmb
\   (  B O L I V I A    -v  ,--  _
|ACIFIC  \                          ') .MA tGOROSSO
P A CI/ f Z C                                            Crn  DO poGSnd
'     !            j    ~~~~~~~~~DC) Soul  K
O CEA IV d'                          \PARAGUAY  'L
, -J i ? YA R A-
C          LI
_________                          -          ~~~~~PARA
) r tN \ -2                              SA? NT A
JSOUTH                     A RGENT(            A
<    In RAZIL       I        A R GE NT  Ic>  A   /            
ftWB.*'s                        \ *  (   ~   oy    j/ RANDE DC)
AMERICA           -.                      } '' ao
dw-f-.FRw.WA.*                  Porto AlegmP
_ 1   Sd d?AN'   Ctww  Ve  Gao.                                    -  t/,
IV  c                       0
OCEAN                                        -
o't OFe M1bW 60* WmVW
b: :   i S      t    s)URUGUAY 



IBRD-16903
r-i     1>C    SUR1NAMIE;ekU1ANX.
-  _R       -8       <           A,cD  O
' ~        i 5             .-A
'f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  r    AQ Ivr                                                              
2 :-- ,- X ,. 0 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Terein
s/  f  C-'  <' '---"A I' \ \ / I~~~~~~~~~~/7-
.f-  J       ~~~Cuiob6i                  BRA iLD\F             /_
G-              9                        Gov5nic        
----_  <) ^;C A-      S -'RSSO; -        M   v 4 A    t5ERA sv          -
- .t    V            Camw sande        ^       ,PO           0 Belo          C!   . T
..        f        i _ S _        K               T  > :      Horiwnte_ 
-5 _   I  f  \^N>76=# /v V ,                                                               TFL A   /V r JC
- PARAGUAY                                                                A p, 4-JH R_ C E A N
I,    \,_H          R         o     z~~I    R.:W de Janeiro
- q         /         3 PARANA  - 
cur               8                      Curiiba   5rl                           BRAZIL
-   z;        / r----------7RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
--tI   s T  I ;   A            v~~~~,Floron6his5                           LocAmON OF PRECr AREAS
N~~ T   A                                                             e 69 ATIONAL CAPtTAL
>/ j i." .a , _ s J _ < O~~~~~~~~~~~~ STATE CAPITALS
} J)   1    - ffi \  PortoAlegreQ  /                      ~~~~~~~- -SrATE souNDARIeS
J o ?   |    J    x,~~~ort AlegrF/                                        -    INTEFNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- r >   e /  1    \       * -^j/,fv  ~~~IClt:)AETERlS 0  10, 200 300 ao 500   - _ RIER
t     \  ,5 jt  ~~~~~AIllES 6    100  200  30C
b URUGUAY r1
~~~~~~~~~~~~-yIf 



