LOAN NUMBER        BR
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANRIA PARANAENSF DE ENERGIA - COPEL
Dated December /    1983


﻿LOAN NUMBERol AS BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December /i , 1983, between INTERNATIONAL
EANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and COMPANHIA PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA - COPEL (hereinafter
called COPEL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower at2 amount in various currencies
equivalent to two hundred twenty-two million eight hundred thous-
and dollars ($222,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that
COPEL agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into be-
tween the Borrower and COPEL, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to COPEL on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS COPEL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth: "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of COPEL and
"Prior Agreements" means the Loan Agreement (COPEL Second Power
Distribution Project) dated June 20, 1979 for Loan No. 1721 BR
and the Loan Agreement (COPEL Power Distribution Project) dated
May 19, 1976 for Loan No. 1257 BR, both between the Bank and
COPEL.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) COPEL shall carry out Part B of the Pro-
ject, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) COPEL shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, COPEL shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) COPEL shall take all such measures as shall be neces-
sary to allow Consumers to participate in the Project, such
measures to include entering into agreements with State or com-
mercial banks for such purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist COPEL in carrying out
Part B.2 of the Project, COPEL shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) COPEL undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency free-
ly usable by COPEL to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) COPEL shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan ralent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) COPEL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part B of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) COPEL shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part B of the Project;
(ii) enable representatives of the Bank and the Borrower to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in Part B of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank and the Borrower at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably
request concerning Part B of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by COPEL of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the con-
tract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part B of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between COPEL
and the Bank, COPEL shall prepare and furnish to the Bank and to
the Borrower a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of Part B of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
COPEL and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Pro-
ject Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿(e) COPEL shall enable representatives of the Bank and the
Borrower to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of COPEL and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) Not later than June 30, 1984 COPEL shall
establish monitoring methods, satisfactory to the Bank, to mea-
sure the growth in the use of electricity by rural consumers, the
reduction in the use of fuel oil by such consumers and the gains
in agricultural output and productivity that may be attributed to
the use of the electricity made available to such Consumers under
the Project, such methods to include sample surveys to be carried
out periodically among the Consumers.
(b) COPEL shall use such methods, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, to constantly monitor the progress of the Project
and estimate the economic and social benefits derived or to be
derived from it.
(c) From time to time, COPEL shall report to the Bank the
results of such monitoring and shall exchange views with the Bank
on the adequacy of the methods employed in the monitoring activi-
ties.
Section 2.07. (a) COPEL shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank, with regard to the progress of the
Project, the results of the monitoring referred to in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) COPEL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by COPEL of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. COPEL shall exchange information with the Bor-
rower and other Brazilian power companies in the preparation and
implementation of rural electrification projects financed or
expected to be financed by the Bank.
Section 2.09. COPEL shall take or cause to be taken all rea-
sonable measures to ensure that Part B of the Project is carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿Section 2.10. COPEL shall take or cause to be taken all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed,
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
Part B of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, upon re-
quest, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of COPEL
Section 3.01. COPEL shall, at all times, maintain its cor-
porate existence and right to carry out its operations, and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. COPEL shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.03. COPEL shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.04. COPEL shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants;
Amendments to the Prior Agreements
Section 4.01. COPEL shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 6-
Section 4.02. COPEL shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COPEL shall:
(a) obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower free and clear of all
encumbrances; and
(b) not sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the sale or
disposal of, any of the property or assets which shall be
required for the efficient carrying out of its business and
undertaking, including Part B of the Project, unless COPEL shall
first pay, or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank
for payment of, all the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower which are then outstanding and unpaid, provided,
however, that COPEL may sell or otherwise dispcse of, or permit
the sale or disposal of, any property which shall have become
obsolete, worn out or unnecessary for use in its facilities.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) COPEL shall take all such action (including, in such
cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted, action
with respect to the filing, within a period of not more than five
months after the end of every calendar year, of appropriate
applications in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or
advisable: (i) to cause COPEL's rates for the sale of electricity
to be set and maintained at such levels as will produce revenues,
as provided by the legislation of the Guarantor in effect on the


﻿-7-
date of this Agreement, sufficient to ensure the continued
operation of COPEL's business in accordance with appropriate
financial and public utility practices, using straight-line
depreciation which shall not be less than that based on the
useful lives of depreciable assets in operation; and (ii) to
enable the agency or agencies (:f the Guarantor responsible for
the setting and adjustment of such rates to act promptly in
respect thereof;
(b) COPEL shall, as provided by the legislation of the
Guarantor, revalue its assets at least once every calendar year
and apply for the corresponding rate adjustments; and
(c) whenever it shall be necessary or advisable for COPEL
to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund to
supplement its revenues in order to achieve the objective set
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, COPEL shall take all
necessary steps to maintain its eligibility to such transfers of
funds.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COPEL shall not incur any debt unless the net revenues of COPEL,
for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incur-
rence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date
of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be more than
1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements on all COPEL's
debt (including the debt to be incurred) in any succeeding fiscal
year (including the fiscal year in which such debt is to be in-
curred).
(b) COPEL shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as available
but not later than six months after the beginning of each fiscal
year, a statement of:
(i) COPEL's projected revenues for such fiscal year;
(ii) COPEL's projected debt service requirements for
such fiscal year; and
(iii) the arithmetical ratio of such revenues to such
debt service requirements.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means all debt except debt matur-
ing by its terms on demand or less than one year


﻿-8-
after it is incurred in the ordinary course of
business.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract, loan
agreement, guarantee agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of the Bor-
rower's rates in effect at the time of the incur-
rence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all expenses of
operation and maintenance in connection with the
generation, transmission and distribution of elec-
tricity, administration, and taxes, if any, but
before deduction of provision for depreciation and
amortization of assets, interest and other charges
on debt.
(iv) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.
(v) Whenever, for purposes of this Section, it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of currency of the
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
(d) The Prior Agreements are hereby amended by deleting the
current wording in Section 5.07 of both Agreements and replacing
it by the wording in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COPEL shall not, until Part B of the Project shall have been com-
pleted, undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any
major investment other than Part B of the Project, unless it has
furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (i)
such investment is technically and economically justified; (ii)


﻿9
COPEL has or will have adequate financial resources for the
carrying out of such investment; and (iii) such investment is in
accordance with the power generation and transmission plans for
the South and Southeast regions of Brazil approved by the Bor-
rower.
For purposes of this Section, the term "major investment"
means an investment costing (a) more than two per cent (2%) of
COPEL's gross revalued fixed assets plus works in progress, in
case such investment is for power generation or transmission, or
(b) more than one per cent (1%) of such assets plus works in pro-
gress in case such investment is for power distribution.
(b) The Prior Agreements are hereby amended by deleting the
current wording in Sections 5.05 of both Agreements and replacing
it by the wording in paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective or on a later date on which the Bank dispatches to the
Borrower, the State and COPEL notice of its acceptance of      the
evidence required pursuant to Section 7.01 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of COPEL thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify COPEL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 10 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For COPEL:
Companhia Paranaense de
Energia - COPEL
Rua Cel. Dulcidio, 800
80000 - Curitiba, Parana
Brazil
Cable address:                         Telex:
COPEL
Curitiba                               (041) 5286
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of COPEL, or by COPEL on behalf of the Bor-
rower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
President and a Director of COPEL or such other person or persons
as they shall designate in writing, and COPEL shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia,
Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By     7d                 w <kd
/1                 Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA - COPEL
By           rero Z
Authorized Representative
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  I'4_y   98
FOR SECRETARY


