OFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER,2b65 BR
Shareholder Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
between
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December/, 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBERZ3&5BR
SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December/4, 1983, between STATE OF MINAS
GERAIS (hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and
Centrais El6tricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter
called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
twenty-two million eight hundred thousand dollars ($222,800,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, in a
Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative
Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the
Bank, and in Project Agreements of even date herewith between the
Bank and Centrais El6tricas de Minas Gerais S.A. (hereinafter
called CEMIG), and Companhia Paranaense de Energia - COPEL,
respectively;
(B) part of the proceeds of the Loan will be relent by the
Borrower to CEMIG for purposes of carrying out, in the terri-
tories of the State, the rural electrification project described
in Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;
(C) the Bank has agreed to make the loan only on con-
dition that the State agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are herein set forth;
(D) the State is the owner and holder of about 68% of the
issued and outstanding voting shares of stock of CEMIG;
(E) the State warrants and represents that it is author-
ized, under the laws of the State, to undertake the obligations
contained in this Agreement; and
(F) the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, the Guarantee Agreement
with the Guarantor and the Project Agreement with CEMIG, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The State shall: (a) take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary to enable CEMIG to carry out Part A
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices; and (b) not take or cause or permit
any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by CEMIG of its covenants,
agreements and obligations contained in the Project Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the State
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to CEMIG will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
Part A of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide CEMIG or cause CEMIG to be provided
with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. At least until the Closing Date, the State
shall:
(a) reinvest in capital stock of CEMIG all dividends paid to
the State by CEMIG;
(b) invest in capital stock of CEMIG the proceeds allocated
to the State of the imposto unico, established by Law 2308 of
1954 and Law 4676 of 1964, both of the Guarantor, as amended from
time to time; and
(c) in addition to the foregoing, invest in capital stock
of CEMIG not less than the following amounts: (i) $30,000,000
equivalent in 1984, (ii) $30,000,000 equivalent in 1985, and
(iii) $30,000,000 equivalent in 1986.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, the progress of Part A
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the State of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective or a later date upon which the Bank dispatches to the
Borrower, the State and CEMIG notice of its acceptance of the
evidence required pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 7.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
de Minas Gerais
Praga da Liberdade
30.000 Belo Horizonte, M.G.
Brazil
Cable Address:                     Telex:
SEFAZEMG                          031 - 1104
BELO HORIZONTE, MG                031 - 1254
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretary of Finance of the State or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provi-
sions of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia,
Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  14      day of _     , 198 '3.
FOR SECRETARY


