Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR00002746
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-47690)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
NATIONAL HYDROMET MODERNIZATION PROJECT
November 27, 2013
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit (ECSSD)
Russian Federation Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2013)
Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
RUB 1.00 = US$ 0.031
US$ 1.00 = RUB 32.549
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEA                Bureau of Economic Analysis
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                Country Partnership Strategy
EA                 Environmental Assessment
FMR                Financial Management Report
FTP                Federal Targeted Program
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GGI                State Hydrological Institute
GGO                Main Geophysical Observatory
GORF               Government of Russian Federation
GTS                Global Telecommunication System
HCA                Human Capital Approach
PDO                Project Development Objective
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
LA                 Loan Agreement
MNRE               Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology
NOOA               National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (US)
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
RMC                Regional Meteorological Center
ROSHYDROMET        Federal Service on Hydrometeorology and Environmental
Monitoring of the Russian FederationRUR      Russian Ruble
VNIIGMI            All Russian Research Institute of Hydrometeorological
Information
WMC                World Meteorological Center
WMO                World Meteorological Organization
WTP                Willingness to Pay
Vice President: Laura Tuck
Country Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Sector Manager: Kulsum Ahmed
Project Team Leader: Adriana Damianova
ICR Team Leader: Gayane Minasyan
Russian Federation


﻿National Hydromet Modernization Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design     ........................................ 9
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes       .........................      ..........15
3. Assessment of Outcomes                     .......................................................21
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...........          .................. .............28
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                             ......................................28
6. Lessons Learned  ............................................................30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...................31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...............           .................... ...............33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component               ..........................................   .........34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis           .....................................   ......42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................54
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results           ................................................56
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR                     ...................58
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                  ..............................................72


﻿
﻿A. Basic Information
Hydrometerological
Country:             Russian Federation   Project Name:       System Modernization
Project
Project ID:          P082239              L/C/TF Number(s):   IBRD-47690
ICR Date:            11/30/2013          ICR Type:            Core ICR
GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:  SIL                 Borrower:            RUSSIA
RUSSIA
Original Total
OmitnalTt:l        USD 80.00M          Disbursed Amount:    USD 79.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 79.70M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
RosHydromet
BEA - Bureau of Economic Analysis
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date
Date(s)
Concept Review:    09/12/2003    Effectiveness:      12/12/2005       12/12/2005
09/13/2007
05/01/2009
Appraisal:         06/21/2004    Restructuring(s):                   06/20/2010
07/18/2011
07/16/2012
Approval:          03/17/2005    Mid-term Review:    10/06/2008       12/23/2008
Closing:            09/30/2010       05/31/2013
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Moderate
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Satisfactory         Government:         Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory     Implementing         Satisfactory


﻿Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
Pefomace            Satisfactory        Pormneatsatr
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                        QAG Assessments
Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry  N
at any time (Yes/No):   o(QEA):
Problem Project at any                   Quality of
No one
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Stsatr
Closing/Inactive status:  Stsatr
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                      100              100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                 25               20
Natural disaster management                             50               50
Water resource management                               25               30
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:       Laura Tuck                    Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:     Michal J. Rutkowski           Kristalina I. Georgieva
Sector Manager:       Kulsum Ahmed                  Laura Tuck
Project Team Leader:  Adriana Jordanova Damianova   Vladimir V. Tsirkunov
ICR Team Leader:      Gayane Minasyan
ICR Primary Author:   Gayane Minasyan
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main development objective of the project is to increase the accuracy of forecasts
provided to the Russian people and economy by modernizing key elements of
RosHydromet's technical base and strengthening its institutional arrangements. All
2


﻿citizens would then receive weather forecasts of higher quality. This would enable
enterprise and household adjustments to protect lives and support economic growth.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised     Achieved at
approval       Target     Completion or
documents)      Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Global forecast S1&lt;0.6
At 144 hours lead
At 148 hours lead            t   in mid-
At 120 hours lead time in time in mid-           tr   se in    00)
Value        midtroposphere (H500): troposphere                 Siowasp0.57...0
quantitative or At 72 hours lead time in (H500); At 120        At 120' or lead
Qualitative)  lower atmosphere     hours lead time n           t   in  le
(MSLP)               lower atmospheretienlor
(MSLP)  latmosphere(MSLP)
it was 0.57...0.59.
Date achieved 02/16/2005           09/30/2010                  05/31/2013
The original target value in H500 should have been 144 hours, i.e. 6 days lead
time. 148 was a typo in the PAD. The values achieved fluctuate from year to year
(incl. %within a narrow range, depending on atmospheric processes. Both targets were
achievement)  100% achieved.
Indicator 2 :  Global forecase anomaly correlation &gt;=0.9
At 96 hours lead
At 96 hours lead            time in
at 60 hours lead time in  time in                 midtroposphere
Value        mid-troposphere (h500); midtroposphere            (H500) Ra was
quantitative or At 48 hours lead time in (H500); At 72         0.92; At 72 hours
Qualitative)  lower atmosphere     hours lead time in          lead time in lower
(MSLP)               lower atmosphere             atmosphere
(MSLP)                      (MSLP) Ra was
0.91 ...0.93
Date achieved 02/16/2005           09/30/2010                   05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %This target for global forecase anomaly correlation is 100% achieved for both
ac.     t   H500 (4 days lead time) and MSLP (3days lead time).
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Regional forecasts at Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk achieve S1=0.7 and anomaly
correlation &gt;=0.9
Regional forecasts
at Novosibirsk and
Value        At 24 hours lead time in  t 3o lea                 Khabarovsk
quantitative or lower atmosphere   tm   oer                   achieved
atmosphereS103.04an
Qualitative)  (MSLP)               (MSLP)                       S1=0.35 ...0.4 and
anomaly correlation
0.97...0.98 at 36
3


﻿hours lead time in
lower atmosphere
Date achieved 02/16/2005           09/30/2010                   05/31/2013
Comments      Achievement of this target is over 100%. Achievement of the target was recorded
(incl. %      .
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target               Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator      Baseline Value      Values (from     Revised     cmplet
approval          Val      Completion or
documents)                  Target Years
Indicator 1   T170L31 or better resolution is used for operational forecasts
T170L31 or better
resolution is used
for operational
Value                                                           forecasts.
(quantitative  Not used            6 min/day                    Experimental
or Qualitative)                                                 model 3 min/day
(parallel
computing) is in
use.
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010                  05/31/2013
The target was surpassed by the original closing date, i.e. September 30, 2010.
Cmn    ts. %  RHM uses a new version of the global weather forecasting technology based on
.         the ensemble method. This resulted into improved quality of middle-term
achievement)  forecasting.
Indicator 2: Ensemble forecasting used to produce daily global forecast.
Ensemble method
Value                                                           (weather element
(                                               computation) is
(quantitative  Used raraly or never  Used daily                 used    o  ig
.rQaiaie                                                    used for producing
or Qualitative)                                                 diygoa
daily global
forecasts.
Date achieved 02/16/2005           09/30/2010      1            05/31/2013
Comments      Achieved. As a result of the project Roshydromet uses a new version of the
(incl. %      global ensemble weather forecasting method REP. It enabled significant quality
achievement)  enhancement for the period of up to 10 days.
Indicator 3: WMO-reporting ground stations achieve improved daily rate of timely
transmission of data to the GTS.
97% of WMO-     92% of WMO 97.2% of WMO
Value         87% of WMO reporting                  reporting   reporting stations
reporting stations           rprigsain
(quantitative  stations report data to  report data to GTS stations report report data to GTS
or Qualitative) GTS on time                         data to GTS
on time         datatoime
on time
[Date achieved 02/16/2005          09/30/2010      09/30/2010  05/31/2013
Comments      Despite the fact that the target was revised downward during the MTR, at the end
(incl. %     project achieved and surpassed the original target by 106%.
4


﻿achievement)
Indicator 4:  The volume of data sent/received at MCC-Moscow from all sources rises
Value         50 Mbytes/240 Mbytes   150 Mbytes/5000              150 Mbytes/5000
(quantitative  send/received daily in the Mbytes                  Mbytes
or Qualitative) MCC                 sent/received daily          sent/received daily.
[Date achieved 102/16/2005          09/30/2010                    05/31/2013
Comments      100% achieved. Improved infrastructure for information storage and
(inc. %
ac.      t   transmission facilitated the achievement of this target.
achievement)
IArchive achieves a more rapid response time for data requests from elsewhere
Indicator 5 :  wihi.R
within RF
Average
Typical response time is Average response response time Average response
Value                               time for requests is up to several
(qanittie  14 days for an average  .oteOnnk      husa h       time for requests to
(quantitative                .      to the Obninsk   hours at the  th .bis    D
or Qualitative) request to the Obninsk  WDC has been  request to  is unde .hr
data archive          halved.          Obninsk data   under 24 hours.
archive.
[Date achieved 02/16/2005           09/30/2010      09/30/2010  05/31/2013
Comments      Response time is a few hours, less than 24 hours for an average request to
(incl. %      Obninsk data archive, if data of the latest year is used. Most imporantly, long-
achievement) term survival of data is ensured.
Indicator 6:  Percentage of upper air stations in compliance with WMO requirements
increases
Value
(quantitative  60% (total of stations)  s0atotal     62%          64%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010       09/30/2010   05/31/2013
103% achievement of the revised target. In addition, at MTR baseline value was
Comments      also reevaluated and set at 5% (instead of 60%)mainly due to wrong assumption
aie.    t   made at appraisal about the lifetime of old equipment which was deemed
acceptable at that time.
Indicator 7: Area covered by strong wind alarms with the help of Doppler radars or
precipitation increases
100,000 km2 for
Value         0 km2 for strong wind  strong wind storm This activity
(quantitative  alarms; 300,000 km2 for alarms; 500,000  was dropped  Not applicable
or Qualitative) precipitation       km2 for
precipitation
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010       05/31/2013   05/31/2013
Comments      Doppler radar program is being implemented using GORF's own plan and
mn  ts %funding. This activity/sub-component was dropped at MTR, procurement of
aie.    t   meteorological radars was cancelled. Government program is being implemented
at a slower than expected pace.
Indicator 8:  Percentage of automatic and/or semi automatic observing stations increases
Value         K10% (total of                         90% (of total
(quantitative  INone                                              85%
o(quaitative)  oe                  stations)        meteostations)
or Qualitative)
5


﻿Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010       09/30/2010   05/31/2013
Comments      At MTR the baseline was re-evaluated and set at 20 stations. The final target is
(incl. %      achieved by almost 95%, mostly due to delay with deployment of stations in Far
achievement)  East, because of unfavorable weather conditions.
Indicator 9   Increase of lead time and reliability of forecasts in the pilot river basins floods
Value                                                3-6 hour for  4-6 hours (mouth
(quantitative  30 min for flush floods  1.5 hours   flush floods  reaches)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010       09/30/2010   05/31/2013
Comments      The target is 100% achieved. Hydrological network modernization resulted in the
(ic. %        lead time hydrological forecast of 4.1 hours, and for flush floods 3-6 hours.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : IDevelopment and approval of a long-term RHM institutional development plan
Value
(             absenApproved by the
(quantitative  absent               GovernmentApproved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010                    05/31/2013
Comments      "Strategy of Activities in Hydrometeorology and Related Areas till 2030,
(incl. %      considering Climate Change Aspects" was approved by the GORF on September
achievement) 3, 2010.
Indicator 11 : The number of well-qualified applicants to entry-level RHM professional
positions rises
Value         Number of well qualified Rise 15% over              34% increase
(quantitative  applicants in 2004 was
.rQaiaie  5                     2004                         compared to 2004
or Qualitative) 150
[Date achieved 02/16/2005          09/30/2010                    05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %      The target achieved and surpassed by almost 230%.
achievement)
Indicator 12 : Increase in lead time for warnings of dangerous weather events delivered to local
Indicator_12 : authorities, Ministry of Emergencies and media
Value         30 minutes for flash  60 minutes for   In target river 55 minutes for flash
(                         ~~~~flash floods, 1.5  basins 3-6 flos1.hur
(quantitative  floods, 1 hour for severe hours fos   hours for  floods, 1.4 hours
.hours for severe hours for flash
or Qualitative) storms              stormsfor severe storms
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010       09/30/2010   05/31/2013
Comments      For this indicator Roshydromet presented additional explanations, noting that
(incl. %      after deployment of COSMO-RU model the lead time is between 120 minutes
achievement)  and 24 hours, and that the target should be considered 100% achieved.
Indicator 13 : Increase in lead time at which public is informed of dangerous weather events
Value         45 minutes for flash  70 minutes for                60 minutes for flash
(quantitative  floods; 1.5 hours for  flash floods, 1.75          floods, 1.75 hours
or Qualitative) severe storms                                     for severe storms
storms
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010                    05/31/2013
Comments      In their explanatory note Roshydromet noted that informing public is the
(incl. %      responsibility of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and the information
achievement)  provided by Roshydromet in internet cannot be considered as official
6


﻿information.
Indicator 14 : Development, approval and regular use of an estimate of total avoided losses due
to RHM services
Developed,
approved,
introued.                    Developed,
Value                                                             approved and
(quantitative  N/A                                               introduced as a
(qattaie.                       performance
or Qualitative)                     .niorand                    performance
indiat   . adindicator in RHM
regularly used in
reporting
[Date achieved 02/16/2005          09/30/2010                   f05/31/2013
Basic methodology is approved and is used by Roshydromet for developing
(incl. %      regular reports on assessed total damages prevented due to services provided by
achievement)  Roshydromet. These reports are submitted on quarterly basis to Roshydromet's
Board for consideration
Indicator 15 : Prevented direct economic losses from dangerous hydrometeorological events
Value
(quantitative  0% from direct       20%              Indicator    Not applicable
 economic losses                          dropped
Date achieved 02/16/2005            09/30/2010       05/31/2013   05/31/2013
Comments      This indicator was dropped at Mid-Term Review. It was found impossible to get
(incl. %      reliable data to underpin the estimate of direct economic losses. Prevention of
achievement) losses goes beyond Roshydromet's servicese.
Indicator 16 : lAccuracy of forecasts of dangerous weather events
Value
(quantitative  85.5%                                 86-88%       96%
or Qualitative)
[Date achieved 10/23/2008                           09/30/2010  f05/31/2013
Comments      This composite indicator (includes temperature, wind, precipitation, visibility)
(incl. %      was introduced at Mid-Term Review, replacing the indicator on prevented direct
achievement)  economic losses. The target was surpassed, about 110%.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                      Ata
No.     Ate                 DO                     IP             Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    06/24/2005        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 0.00
2    12/30/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                0.00
3    10/12/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 1.21
4    04/11/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                2.01
5    11/09/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                7.44
6    05/04/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory               11.02
7    01/06/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfactory               32.27
8    06/12/2009        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                36.72
9    12/12/2009        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory          44.73
7


﻿10   06/29/2010        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                57.16
11   01/01/2011        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                64.90
12   07/30/2011        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                71.76
13   02/01/2012        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                78.58
14   06/26/2012        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                79.08
15   12/25/2012        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                79.73
16   05/23/2013        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                79.73
H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at  Amount
.Board Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring    Bord     R       estructuring        Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)     AprvdRsrcuig                                Key Changes Made
PDO Change    DO      IP      in USD
millions
09/13/2007                 MIS     5         5.20   Re-allocation of funds between
procurement categories
Increase of the Government co-
05/01/2009                  5     5         34.65   financing, and decrease of the
loan proceeds funding
percentage
0 /N5                      Extension of the project's
06/20/20 10                 S    MS         56.30   coigdt
closing date
Extension of the closing date, to
07/18/2011                  S     S         71.05   prepare the Hydromet
Modernization Project -2
Extension of the closing date to
07/16/2012                  S     S         79.58   allow the completion of the
Hydormet-2 preparation process
8


﻿I. Disbursement Profile
-   Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
100-
20      I
0-L
LM  W   W    N'. N,  go  go  cm       a         -    M     M M~ M
rq  Iq  N    M   N   MN                               N    q 11 1
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.    By early-mid 2000s, the total annual direct losses in Russia associated with dangerous
weather and hydrological events were estimated to be US$1-2 billion. The Russian Federal
Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Roshydromet) was charged by
law with enhancing hydrometeorological safety, which is an integral part of national safety and
contributes to reducing loss of life and damage to the environment and economy that arises from
weather events and climate hazards. To do that, Roshydromet was tasked with monitoring of
meteorological and hydrological variables, air and water quality, and soil characteristics. It
produced daily weather forecasts, flood and storm warnings, seasonal forecasts, drought
monitoring reports, agrometeorological forecasts, projections of climate change, general ocean
circulation models, and records of ambient pollution, among other products. One of
Roshydromet's subordinated institutions, Moscow World Meteorological Center, is also one of
the three worldwide centers that are charged with computing and distributing global forecasts to
initialize the world's regional weather models, as well as developing new techniques in support
of worldwide forecasting.
2.    The capacity of Roshydromet to provide services to Russia and globally has steadily
declined since the economic transition began. In the period 1994-2000, funding from the national
budget ranged from 28 percent to 41 percent of what would be required for regular operations.
As a result, Roshydromet's capacity to help prevent economic and human losses had deteriorated.
The decline affected all elements of the Roshydromet system: observational networks, data
9


﻿transmission, archiving and processing facilities, and research and development facilities. Since
1987 to the time of the project appraisal in 2005, Roshydromet has closed about 30 percent of its
surface data collection stations. As a result of long-term underfunding, Roshydromet's capacity
to offer forecasts that help mitigate weather related losses had fallen behind the standards set by
other equivalent national services, and as such, the standard needed to keep the economy
competitive. Aviation, shipping, agriculture, forestry, construction, and many other sectors were
at a competitive disadvantage, wasting resources, because they had not been receiving quality
and timely weather forecast allowing them to optimize weather-related decisions.
3.     In addition to lack of funding, dilapidating infrastructure and poor service delivery,
Roshydromet, which had been working for the decade preceding the project in a "survival mode",
was also missing a long-term institutional development perspective and strategy for adjustment
to the realities of a market economy.
4.     The project was called to support reducing the risk to life and the economy from
unfavorable weather conditions. It was intended to diminish not only the damage to the economy
that arises from avoidable weather damage, but also that which results from the high degree of
uncertainty about weather risk, which adds to the cost of doing business and limits the
competitiveness of Russian agriculture and other enterprises.
5.     The project was envisaged to support directly two strategic pillars of Russia's 2002
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): (i) strengthening public sector management, and (ii)
mitigating environmental risks. The project was also expected to reduce social risk by improving
security through measures to improve emergency warning to population.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
6.     The Project Development Objective (PDO), as noted in the Loan Agreement (LA)
(Schedule 2, p. 13) was "to: (i) improve RHM's capacity to provide meteorological and
hydrological services and assure their effective and timely delivery to the Government and the
public, and (ii) mitigate environmental risks to life and the economy from unfavorable weather
conditions".
7.     According to the Project Appraisal Document, the PDO was stated differently than in the
LA formulation: "the main development objective of the project is to increase the accuracy of
forecasts provided to the Russian people and economy by modernizing key elements of
Roshydromet's technical base and strengthening its institutional arrangements. All Russian
citizens would then receive weather forecast of higher quality. This would enable enterprise and
household adjustments to protect lives and support economic growth ". The Implementation
Completion Report adopts the LA formulation of the PDO as it is legally binding.
8.     The success of the project would be measured in terms of improvements in the accuracy
and spatial resolution of forecasting, improved transmission of data within the Roshydromet
network and beyond, increased accessibility of the Rushydromet archive records, higher density
of data networks, more-timely emergency alerts to mitigate weather damage, and progress
toward a modernized concept of operations. The latter should comprise the organizational
10


﻿changes needed to improve technical capacity through modernized methods, a sustainable
approach to human resources issues, and progress toward financial sustainability.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
9.     The PDO and PDO level indicators remained unchanged throughout the project. Most
intermediate indicators and targets remained unchanged with the following exceptions: (a) the
indicator, and associated activity, Area covered by strong wind alarms with the help of Doppler
radars or precipitation increases was dropped, since the procurement of meteorological radars
under the project was cancelled. The Doppler radar program is being implemented under the
Government of Russian Federation's (GORF) Federal Targeted Program (FTP) on geophysical
monitoring which provides considerable amount of funding for modernization of meteorological
radar observation network; and (b) the indicator for prevented direct economic losses was
revised to Accuracy offorecasts of dangerous weather events, since measuring prevented direct
losses attributable to the project was found to be impossible because of lack of reliable data'.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
10.    The target group was not explicitly defined in the PAD. However, it is quite
straightforward that the main beneficiary of the project was Roshydromet. All the funding and
activities were to be targeted at modernization of this institution. Nevertheless, the beneficiaries
of the project would be all the users of the information provided by Roshydromet. The target
groups could be identified as follows: (i) economic entities/enterprises from a wide range of
economic sectors (e.g aviation, agriculture, transport, etc.) whose decision making process on
investments, start and end of operations, and other factors depend on the weather information
received from Roshydromet; (ii) executive authorities at different levels Federal Okrug,
Republic/ Oblast/Kray and local/municipality level (e.g. Ministry of Emergency Situations) who
are vested with responsibilities to take certain actions in the event of certain weather conditions;
(iii) public in general who use the information for planning or making decisions on individual
actions; and (iv) the international hydrometeorological community by providing better access to
reliable and abundant observation data from vast territory of Russia, and thus contributing to
more accurate global forecasts,
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
11.    The project was designed along four components:
Component A. Modernization of Computing, Archiving and Telecommunications Facilities
(US$62.1 million) aimed to upgrade computing capacity and capacity of transmission, arching
and retrieval of data through three sub-components.
1 Assessment and compilation of official data on direct losses from extreme and hazardous events (including
weather hazards) is a responsibility assigned to the regional and federal bodies of the Ministry of Emergency
Situations. The quantitative data is based on the report of interagency commissions established following each
specific case of emergency (usually in physical units lost).
11


﻿Modernization of the Moscow WMC and Obninsk Archiving Facility would finance procurement
of a supercomputer for the WMC in Moscow, and modernize the Roshydromet archiving
facilities in VNIIGMI-WDC (Obninsk) through the upgrading of existing archiving facilities
with support for data rescue of information then stored on deteriorating media.
Restructuring of Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk RMCs and Modernization of Main Geophysical
Observatory (GGO) would upgrade computing facilities at the Russian Federation's two WMO
Regional Specialized Meteorological Centers. The forecast centers at Novosibirsk and
Khabarovsk, would procure two supercomputers (smaller than to be procured for Moscow
WMC). This subcomponent would also support upgrading at the World Radiation Data Center
maintained by Roshydromet for the WMO Voeikov Main Geophysical Observatory in St.
Petersburg.
Modernization of Communications and Data Transmission System would address Roshydromet's
communication system as a whole. This would include the modernization of communications
among Roshydromet's principal facilities and also communication with selected high-priority
measurement stations and with remote stations. Communications and infrastructure required to
support the modernized computer centers would be financed, including equipment to assure
continuous power supply, investments in local and wide area networks and the supply or
required peripheral equipment.
Component B. Upgrading of the Observational Networks (US $56.9 million) was intended to
modernize key components of Roshydromet's meteorological and hydrological networks. Five
sub-components were envisaged:
Surface Observation Network would provide equipment for about 900 surface meteorological
stations which are important for regional and local forecast. It would also support the creation of
about 10 pilot sub-regional meteorological networks.
Aerological (Upper-Air) Network would re-equip selected upper-air sounding stations. It would
be the most important network investment in support of global forecasting: those stations collect
the three-dimensional datasets of key meteorological variables that constitute the principal input
to global weather models.
Meteorological Radars and Lighting Direction would improve storm warning to heavily-
populated urban areas and to vulnerable coastal zones.
Regional Hydrometeorological Centers would equip regional centers with hardware and
software to improve weather and flood forecasts. It would provide equipment for visualization of
data, downloading of satellite data and improvement of communication capacity. It would also
include workstations and software for operational archiving.
Hydrological Network would upgrade 700-800 hydrological posts. About half would be priority
sites distributed nationally: sites that are flood-prone, or where time series are long, that are
critical to hydrology of major rivers. The other half would comprise upgrade of the entire
12


﻿hydrological network in three high priority river basins, Kuban, Ussury and Oka, with automatic
and semi-automatic stations.
Component C: Institutional Strengthening, Improvement in Output Dissemination and
Emergency Preparedness (US $7.9 million) was intended to formulate, develop and test new
operational principles drawn from worldwide experience, improve emergency warnings of
dangerous weather conditions leading to emergency situations and improve provision of
information to the clients. The work would have to be undertaken under three sub-components.
Institutional Strengthening would support development and testing of new principles and
approaches aimed at making Roshydromet a viable, modern and client-oriented agency. This
sub-component would formulate new requirements for modernized RosHydromet system based
on the clients' needs and projected trends in funding, undertake detailed design of a new system
and test it in selected regional Roshydromet branches.
Client Survey System would include design of a system (databases, networks and software) that
would improve data availability, presentation and dissemination to ensure that information is
supplied in useful format to Roshydromet's clients. A number of activities would be carried out
specifically aimed at soliciting client needs and views and ensuring that clients are informed of
various developments at Roshydromet.
Emergency Preparedness and Response would undertake development of improved emergency
warning procedures. Principal investments would include technical assistance to define gaps in
the system, procurement of equipment for emergency preparedness and resources for pilot
testing in a few areas.
Component D. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$6.4 million) would
finance project management, supervision and monitoring and evaluation of project impact. A
small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would provide assistance to Roshydromet in such areas
as procurement, financial management and disbursement. A key consultant, the design integrator
would assist Roshydromet during detailed project preparation and then implementation to ensure
that a fully integrated national weather service is maintained.
1.6 Revised Components
12.   The component structure and project activities remained largely unchanged throughout
the project, with two minor exceptions. The originally designed activity for procurement
Meteorological Radars and Lighting Direction (B3 sub-component under Component B) which
would improve storm warning to heavily-populated urban areas and to vulnerable coastal zones
was cancelled from the project in 2007. Two government funded Federal Targeted Programs
(FTP) on geophysical monitoring and on "modernization of uniform system of air traffic
organization of air traffic organization in the Russian Federation" envisaged the phased
modernization of incoherent meteorological radars and broadening of a radar network via
installation of combined about 175 modern Doppler radars (up to 75 of them in the country's
main airports). It was indicated that implementation of those FTPs would enable to reach and
surpass the Project's specific targets aimed at upgrading of weather radars. "Released" resources
13


﻿were allocated to other high priority activities under Component B, procurement of equipment
for surface meteorological network.
13.    The sub-component/activity under component 4 was added in July 2011 for preparation
of the Second National Roshydromet Modernization Project. Financing came from saved
resources and internal re-allocation between the categories.
1.7 Other significant changes
14.   Overall design, scope and scale remained largely unchanged, even though minor
modifications to project activities were made continuously. Implementation arrangements also
were not altered, even though during the life of this project Roshydromet's direct subordination
to the Government was changed, and it was brought under the umbrella of the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Ecology (MNRE). This had no implications as such for the project
implementation.
15.   Total project cost increased considerably during the life of the project, from US$133.3
million at appraisal to US$178.5 million at closing. World Bank loan funding remained
unchanged at US$80 million, while GORF's financing increased from US$53.3 million to US$
98.8 million.
16.   Project schedule has in the meantime changed several times. The project was extended
three times: in 2010, 2011 and 2012, the cumulative extension of the closing date exceeding two
years (last extension was approved by the Regional Vice President). In addition, several
reallocations between categories were made. All changes are presented below, in chronological
order:
a. In September 2007, (i) minor reallocation of funds was made from category "Works"
(US$300,00) and category "Consultant Services" (US$371,000) to category "Goods"
to accommodate changes in the procurement plan, more specifically for increased
cost of equipment for modernization of hydrological network; (ii) increase of an
aggregate contractual amount of assignments by eligible government owned scientific
research institutes, from US$250,000 to US$800,000 to ensure delivery of unique and
highly specialized services provided only by the public entities.
b. In September 2008, reallocation from categories "Works", "Consultants' Services",
"Training", and "Capacity Building" to category "Goods" was approved, to provide
resources for modernization of surface meteorological network, as the tender for this
activity resulted in US$13.2 million in excess of the original budget (about US$42
million).
c. In May 2009, the Loan Agreement was revised again, reflecting the increase of the
Government co-financing to the project by US$44.5 million and consequently
increasing the overall percentage of the co-financing of the project by the
Government from 40 percent to 60 percent for all the activities to be financed from
there on. This was required to address the shortfall of resources due to labor cost
increase, as well as price increase for other major inputs.
14


﻿d. In June 2010, the project was extended until October 31, 2011 to particularly install
and put into regular operation automatic weather stations and other equipment in
remote northern and eastern parts of Russia, in which many Roshydromet stations are
located. This was required because for a while the project was on halt due to the
shortage of resources.
e. The second extension was processed in July 2011, and the project was extended until
August 31, 2012 to allow sufficient time for preparation and launch of the Hydromet-
2 project.
f. The third and final extension was agreed upon in July 2012, when the project closing
date was extended to May 31, 2013 to allow for completion of the remaining action
related to then ongoing preparation of the Second National Hydromet Modernization
Project. Closing date extension in 2012 was also accompanied by reallocation
between categories. Aggregate amount of US$135,000 was reallocated from
categories "Works" and "Training" to category "Operating Costs". This intended to
finance the additional operational cost which would be incurred by the PIU to
complete project preparation including reparation of Terms of Reference and tender
documents for at leastl5 per cent of the loan amount for the Second National
Roshydromet Modernization Project and therefore to ensure timely implementation
upon project effectiveness.
17.   During mid-term review targets for several intermediate indicators have been revised:
a. WMO-reporting ground stations achieve improved daily rate of timely transmission
of data to the GTS: target was revised from 97 percent to 92 percent
b. Archive achieves a more rapid response time for data requests from elsewhere within
RF: target was revised from 7 days to several hours
c. Percentage of upper air stations in compliance with WMO requirements increases:
target was revised from 80 percent to 62 percent
d. Percentage of automatic and/or semi-automatic observing station increases: target
was revised from 10 percent of total station to 90 percent of total stations
e. Increase of lead time and reliability of forecasts in the pilot river basins floods: targets
was revised from 1.5 hours to 3-6 hours for flash floods
f. Increase in lead time for warnings of dangerous weather events delivered to local
authorities, Ministry of Emergency Situations and media: target was amended, setting
it at 3-6 hours for flash floods in target river basins
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
18.   The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. The project responded to the
Government's priorities in several key areas and maintained its overall strategic relevance
15


﻿throughout the implementation period. Objectives were set clearly in the context of the CAS and
Government strategies. It built on a rigorous background analysis and data from various
preparation studies, as well as other sectoral studies.
19.   Specific components and activities planned contributed to the overall objective and were
mutually reinforcing. They were designed to address unmet priorities and complementary to
government's then modest program of investments in the sector.
20.    The Bank's project preparation team was stable and consisted of experienced team of
experts who brought to the project relevant skill mix. Noteworthy is the fact of constant presence
of IT procurements specialists since identification to appraisal. It should also be noted that team
brought in expertise from Meteorological Service of Canada and US National Weather Service
of Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration that proved to be valuable in reviewing
technical aspects of the project design. The team worked closely with national experts and
conducted a series of preparation mission, which involved site visits and assessments,
roundtables and interview with large number of stakeholders at different levels. This process
proved to be important to develop an understanding of the core issues and challenges that
Roshydromet was facing, resulting in few modifications of the design of activities in the course
of preparation. It should be noted that considerable preparation resources for the project were
allocated through the Russia Environmental Management Project. This enabled uninterrupted
technical preparation when the project was not yet effective.
21.    The project did take into account available lessons from existing experience, particularly
in ECA. Most important one being a decision to engage a design integrator to ensure that all
investments are coherent and prepared so as to be efficiently and effectively integrated. However,
there were no other projects which would embark on modernization of hydrometeorological
services of a country at this scale. As such, the project itself later became a flagship for other
subsequent projects in Central Asia, Moldova and other countries.
22.   Assessment of project design and preparation: The PDO was well framed and realistic.
The main indicator chosen to measure the achievement of the PDO was Lead time increases for
national and regional weather forecasts. This indicator in fact was measured through three sub-
indicators, all three directly measuring lead time: (i) Global forecast S1<0.6, (ii) Global forecast
anomaly correlation >= 0.9, and (iii) Regional forecasts at Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk achieve
S1=0.7 and anomaly correlation >= 0.9. It can be argued that increasing lead time does not
necessarily ensure increased accuracy of forecasts. Two statistical indicators used to describe
accuracy of forecasts for meteorological properties fields are defined as follows: (a) gradient
error of forecast fields (Si), and (b) ratio of forecast and actual fields anomalies correlation
(Ra).The lower is the value of Si, the higher is the forecast quality. It has been proven
empirically that with S1<0.6 forecast can be regarded as useful from practical standpoint. The
ratio of the forecast and actual fields anomalies correlation (Ra) describes accuracy of
forecasting fields deviations from climatological normal (anomalies). The greater the value of Ra
the higher is the forecast quality (since this is a correlation ratio, the Ra cannot be greater than 1).
With Ra equal to or greater than 0.9, forecast quality is deemed satisfactory. Thus, increase in
lead times were defined for specific and comparable anomaly correlation which is a measure of
forecast skill. In combination, these indicators do characterize the increase of forecast accuracy.
16


﻿23.    The results framework provided a sound basis for implementing and assessing progress
towards achieving the expected outcomes. The project's primary performance indicators are
measures of improvement in the accuracy and timeliness of forecasts and in provision of
associated probabilistic information. Such improvements are measured in terms of the increased
lead time of useful forecasts. The project employs a number of widely used measures of
improvement in the usefulness of forecasts: increases in the Sl measure, improved correlation of
the anomalies predicted/observed in the pressure field, and increases in the probability of
detection of dangerous events. This clearly addresses the first part of the PDO (improving
Roshydormet's capacity). At the same time, having more accurate information leads to less
uncertainly and the response is more proportional to the severity of the event. Thus, having
accurate and timely forecast contributes to mitigations of environmental risks to life and the
economy, addressing the second part of the PDO.
24.    The understanding that increasing the accuracy of forecasts requires a comprehensive set
of integrated activities justified a relatively complex design. Project preparation was quite
thorough. Despite the complexity, the preparation took less than 12 months from identification to
appraisal. It took longer for the project to become effective for reasons beyond the project's
control, mostly due to lengthy approval processes by the Government.
25.    In hindsight, the project should have been designed with much longer implementation
period from the outset, or else more detailed designs should have been done during preparation
rather than implementation phase.
26.    Risk Assessment: Critical risks and mitigation measures were fairly well defined. Overall
project risk was assessed as moderate. The project integrated important risk mitigation measures
in the design, most notably having IT and procurement specialist constantly present in the team,
and ensuring that there is specialized PIU to help the Roshydromet with procurement, financial
management, and disbursement. Risks related to procurement of large computer systems and
other IT components were correctly assessed as high. The assessment of recognized risks was
sound and many designed risk mitigation measures proved to be effective. Some risks, such as
inflation and cost escalation were underestimated, and the potential implications were not
adequately assessed during design. It should be noted though in hindsight that predicting 2008
crisis, which among other things triggered devaluation of Russian Ruble, was practically
impossible. It also turned out that having an IT and procurement specialists in the team, as well
as hiring a System Integrator, was not enough to fully mitigate the only recognized High risk.
27.    Government commitment and stakeholder involvement: The project built on long-term
partnership and successful cooperation experience between the Bank and the Government, and
enjoyed strong government attention and support, combined with a high level of commitment.
This included institutional as well as financial commitments. Roshydromet provided committed
and qualified staff and successfully championed the process of preparation. Project preparation
was slightly delayed by two factors: (i) major delays in selection of the Project Implementation
Unit, and (ii) in the process of Government restructuring in 2004, Roshydromet was formally
eliminated, and then re-established a few months later. While technical work on the project
preparation continued despite uncertainties, it slowed the pace somewhat.
17


﻿2.2 Implementation
28.   Project implementation was affected by a number of positive and adverse factors:
29.   Slow disbursements and delays with procurement and preparation of technical packages:
Project implementation was slow, and disbursements were lagging behind during the initial
stages of the project implementation. The project envisaged procurement of a large number of
sophisticated equipment and complex works. Technical complexity caused major delays with
procurement and installation of a few largest packages, e.g. procurement of supercomputers was
delayed by more than a year, supply and installation of equipment for the surface meteorological
network (combined value of contracts more than US$60 million) was delayed by several months
due the several rounds of iterations of technical specifications. Some delays were also caused for
reasons beyond the project's control, e.g. unpredictably long export procedures by the US
Department of Commerce.
30.   Price increase effects: Unexpected cost escalations affected the project at the early
implementation stage. This situation led to a temporary freeze of works as the project ran out of
money before the completion of all planned activities. This was offset by increased government
funding to the project and an extension of the closing date, which compensated for the period
during which implementation of certain activities was de-facto suspended due to lack of
resources.
31.   Flexibility. Early on during project implementation, the stakeholders acknowledged that
the uncertainties and challenges associated with a modernization program of such complexity
and scope require flexibility in implementation. The stakeholders reached an agreement to
conduct periodic discussions of a key subset of issues that would merit continuous attention and
revision of proposed solutions throughout the implementation period. This constant attention to
key issues ensured proper implementation. While a positive in terms of outcomes, this approach
clearly led to a longer implementation period and needed larger contingency funds that should
have been envisaged by the project.
32.   Strong leadership of Roshydromet: Despite initial slow start of the project, largely due to
its scope and technical complexity, the Roshydromet and Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
managed to build strong implementation capacity, which eventually ensured the success of the
project. Leadership of Roshydromet was strong and continuous.
33.   Supportive national programs: During the implementation of the project, Russia adopted
its Climate Doctrine (2009) and a detailed plan for its implementation until 2020 (2011). The
need and specific actions for further modernization of the national weather, hydrological and
environmental monitoring systems were recognized. The project has benefitted from this
conducive environment by means of additional funding provided by the Government, as well as
increased attention and commitment to the project objectives and activities. It was further
reinforced through the adoption of the "Strategy of Activities in Hydrometeorology and Related
Areas for the Period until 2030 (including Climate Change Aspects)" in September 2010. The
Strategy covers a broader agenda for improvement of national hydromet services and includes a
systemic analysis of potential development challenges and opportunities, availability of adequate
18


﻿financial and human resources, and developing a vision of Roshydromet's future for the next 15-
20 years.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
34.   The project design included a sound project monitoring and results framework withl9
outcome and intermediate outcome indicators covering all aspects of the PDO and components.
Most of the indicators were well defined. Some of the indicators are highly technical, due to the
nature of the project.
35.   One issue should be noted: while the project had a comprehensive M&E system, the
reporting in the Bank's internal Implementation Status Report system was limited. First, not all
the indicators were included and thus reported on, and second, the real value and progress
towards achieving the results through the use of indicators started rather late. Initial ISRs
recorded only marginal data. Starting from mid-term, the project outcomes, using PDO and
intermediate indicators, were quite systematically assessed, but even then reporting of progress
towards meeting targets for some indicators was in the form of "100 percent achieved" rather
than actual values.
36.   The project also introduced a modern monitoring system   through a survey of
beneficiaries as a way of assessment of its services and the client needs aiming to improve user
interface (refer to Annex 5 for details on survey results).
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
37.   The project was classified as a Category C project as it was identified that it poses
minimum environmental risks. Inclusion of relevant standard environmental guidelines in
bidding packages for the civil works associated with the refurbishing of existing buildings as
well as for the installation of new equipment was envisaged. Also, the standard environmental
guidelines established by the Russian Environmental Assessment (EA) procedures have been
incorporated in the PIU's Operational Manual. Compliance with safeguard policies was
monitored during implementation and occasionally reported with no significant issues observed.
38.   Procurement followed Bank policies and procedures with some minor issues reported that
were resolved. The procedures established in BEA ensured thorough professional review and
approval by the Project Technical Advisory Council and Project Management Committee of
most of the procurement steps and documents. The quality of approved tender documents,
contracts and other procurement documents were usually satisfactory. Initially, the project
suffered major procurement delays, largely due to technical complexity of goods and works to be
procured. Two cases of mis-procurement were recorded: in November 2009, US$75,066.84, and
in June 2010, US$19,943.48 were cancelled from the loan, more specifically from the Consultant
Services category, due to a conflict of interest - the head of implementing agency (BEA) at that
time had also served in the Board of Directors of the bid winning company. The funds were
returned and cancelled from the loan.
39.   Financial management was generally in compliance with World Bank procedures.
Counterpart funding was provided generally on time and eventually far exceeded the originally
19


﻿envisaged amount. Audit reports were clean and did not highlight any significant issues. The
financial management system, including accounting, internal control and reporting, was
generally adequate. Financial Management Reports (FMR) were submitted on time and were
satisfactory.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
40.   The project led to another investment operation, which is a natural continuation of the
Hydromet Modernization Project. The design on the Second National Hydromet Modernization
Project (Hydromet-2), which was approved by the World Bank's Board of Directors in
September 2013, builds heavily on the experience derived from the Hydromet-1 project. It
intends to further enhance national capacity to deliver reliable and timely weather, hydrological
and climate information to the Russian public and economic sector and enhance Russia's
capacity to integrate in the global system of meteorological services. Hydromet-2 maintains the
same component structure with certain modifications and renaming of parts:
Component A. Strengthening Information Communication Technology (ICT)
infrastructure and systems delivering weather, climate and hydrological data and
information (US$45.4 million) will strengthen the ICT infrastructure and technical capabilities
in order to improve operational forecasting and other hydrometeorological products, support
research on climate change, improve access to Roshydromet's data and information, including to
archived data.
Component B. Modernization of observation networks (US$73.6 million) will modernize the
equipment and technologies of key elements of Roshydromet's observation networks and
integrated modernization of the hydrological network in the Volga river basin.
Component C. Institutional and regulatory strengthening, improvement of service delivery
to clients and better preparedness for emergencies (US$13.95 million) will improve the
performance of Roshydromet service in line with international experience, through capacity
building of operational and research staff, improvement of service delivery in response to
growing societal needs, and better preparedness for emergency situations.
Component D. Project management (US$6.55 million) will finance the services of the system
integrator and operational and other related costs for project management.
41.   The project procured large amounts of fairly sophisticated equipment requiring
considerable operation and maintenance. The project recognized that ensuring sustainability of
Roshydromet operations in general, and project investments in particular, was a key challenge.
The issue was raised throughout the entire project implementation. Several specific activities
were designed, and actions were taken in this regard: (a) activity-based costing and evaluation of
sustainability of proposed modernization, including assessment of maintenance expenses, and (b)
support to the Task Force advising the Roshydromet on the development of a strategic vision of
Roshydromet's future development and technological modernizations (long-term development
strategy up to 2030).
20


﻿3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
42.    The macro-economic, sector and related policy and strategic priorities that formed the
basis of the original PDO and the project design remain as highly relevant at completion as they
were at the time of appraisal. The PDO and design are fully consistent with national priorities
and the World Bank- Russian Federation Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2012-2016 (Report
#65115-RU), dated December 2011. Specifically, the Project directly supported two of the four
strategic themes of the current CPS. It contributed to sustainable development and effective
protection of the environment under the first strategic theme "Increasing Growth and
Diversification". Promoting environmental sustainability contributes to shared prosperity. In
addition, the Project strengthened Russia's contribution to global public goods, thereby
supporting the third CPS strategic theme "Deepening Russia's Global and Regional Role".
Russia's strong leadership role in the community of international scientific organizations will
grow given Russia's commitment to the climate change adaption agenda. The project supported
the most critical modernization needs of Russia's Hydrometeorological Service infrastructure,
ensuring interim fulfillment of Russia's international obligations in weather and climate data
sharing, and testing and operationalizing modem technical and technological approaches and
solutions.
43.    The Climate Doctrine of the Russian Federation was adopted in December 2009. With
this doctrine, Russia officially acknowledges that global warming poses a significant challenge
to its security. On April 25, 2011, "The Comprehensive Plan for Implementing the Climate
Doctrine for the Period until 2020" was introduced by the Government. For the period 2011-
2020, the Plan includes actions for reducing economic damages in key economic sectors from
extreme weather events and improving the effectiveness of hydrometeorological safety, as well
as for greater international climate-change cooperation. It recommends further modernization of
the national weather, hydrological and environmental monitoring system.
44.    The objective of the project therefore remains fully consistent with current priorities, also
manifested by the continuation of support for the Roshydromet through the implementation of
the Second National Hydromet Modernization Project (Hydromet-2).
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
45.    The project achieved its development objective to improve Roshydromet's capacity to
provide meteorological and hydrological services and assure their effective and timely delivery
to the Government and public. It was achieved through increased accuracy of forecasts provided
to the Russian people and economy by modernizing key elements of the technical base and
strengthening Roshydromet's institutional arrangements. The project also achieved the objective
to mitigate environmental risks to life and the economy from unfavorable weather conditions,
especially through more-timely emergency alerts and as demonstrated through the estimated
value of prevented losses of life and in different sectors of the economy. The three project
"technical" components were well designed and justified, as they individually and collectively
21


﻿contributed towards meeting the PDO. The project also responded flexibly to external programs
and shifted support to other high priority activities, and avoided duplication of investments.
46.   As mentioned in the PAD, the success of the project would be measured in terms of
improvements in the accuracy and spatial resolution of forecasting, improved transmission of
data within the Roshydromet network and beyond, increased accessibility of the Roshydromet
archive records, higher density of data networks, more-timely emergency alerts to mitigate
weather damage, and progress toward a modernized concept of operations, meaning
organizational changes needed to improve technical capacity through modernized methods, a
sustainable approach to human resources issues, and progress toward financial sustainability.
However, it should also be understood that, while Roshydromet provides hydrometeorological
information to the system of first responders of emergency situations, the decision to act on this
information is in the hands of the first responders. So even though the improvement in the
accuracy and timeliness of forecasts is an extremely important input to the decision to act,
ultimately, Roshydromet can only be responsible for the information flow and not the outcome
of the first responder's action or inaction.
47.   The below findings are based on the ICR team's own work, review of the task team's
outputs, and third party assessments.
48.   Lead time increases for national and regional weather forecasts. With regard to the lead
time increase the following has been achieved:
a. Global forecast S1<0.6 achieved 144 hours lead time in mid-troposphere (H500),
fully achieving the target and showing an improvement of about 24 hours; at 120
hours lead time in lower atmosphere (MSLP) it fully achieved the target, showing 48
hours improvement. Basically, the error of forecast fields (Si) was less than 0.6 for 6
day forecasts in mid-troposphere, and for 5 day forecasts in lower atmosphere. In
2012 it was 0.57.. .0.6 and 0.57.. .0.59 respectively.
b. Global forecast anomaly correlation >= 0.9, in mid-troposphere (H500) is achieved at
96 hours lead time and 72 hours lead time in lower atmosphere (MSLP), thus fully
achieving the targets set by the project. This is an improvement of lead time of 24-36
hours compared to baseline values. To summarize, Ra was greater than 0.9 for 4 day
forecasts in H500, and 3 day forecasts in MSLP. In 2012 Ra = 0.92 and
Ra=0.91 ... 0.93, respectively for 4 day forecasts in H500 and 3 day forecasts in
MSLP.
c. Regional forecasts at Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk achieve Sl= 0.7 and anomaly
correlation >= 0.9, target being at 36 hours lead time in lower atmosphere (MSLP). In
2012 the values at 36 hours lead time in MSLP were Sl= 0.35.. .0.4, and Ra=
0.97.. .0.98. This demonstrates that targets for the accuracy of regional forecasts in
the lower atmosphere required by the project were achieved.
49.   Thus, the project did achieve the improvement in the accuracy and timeliness of forecasts
and in the provision of associated probabilistic information. It has also succeeded to improve the
22


﻿delivery of forecasts and warnings to the public, e.g. the average lead-time of storm warnings
grew from 30 to 60 minutes for flash floods and from 1 to 1.5 hours for strong storms. It helped
to establish a foundation for Roshydromet's further institutional development, through
developing and approval of "Strategy of Activities in Hydrometeorology and Related Areas till
2030 (with Regard to Climate Change Aspects)", and financial sustainability. Not least, the
project also helped Russia's compliance with international obligations through the improvement
in global forecasts issued by the Moscow WMC and the timely delivery of data from WMO
meteorological stations to the Global Telecommunication System (GTS).
50.   Each technical component has specific objectives which contributed to the achievement
of the overall project objective. Detailed assessment of outcomes under each component is
presented below.
51.   Component A: Modernization of Computing, Archiving and Telecommunication
Facilities. Main expected outcomes: (i) computing centers obtain operational forecasts at higher
resolution and using ensemble methods, (ii) data collected and transmitted (including processed
information) within Russia or globally does not encounter infrastructure bottlenecks in
Roshydromet telecoms, and (iii) response time drops for requests for archived data.
Activities under this component resulted in enhanced quality of main meteorological fields and
use of forecasting models with much better spatial resolution parameters. Roshydromet now uses
a new version of global weather forecasting technology, which improved the quality of middle-
term forecasting (for periods of up to 10 days). Furthermore, forecasting accuracy ranges from
92 percent for 1 day forecast to 86-97 percent for 3 days forecast. Technological infrastructure
was modernized, including procurement and installation of four supercomputer complexes, in the
WMC in Moscow, WMO Regional Meteorological Ceneters (MCs) in Khabarovsk and
Novosibirsk, the Main Geophysical Observatory (GGO) Voeikov in St-Petersburg. The
installation and use of these complexes lead to improvement of the quality of monthly and
seasonal weather forecasts using global spectral model. It should also enable development of a
new global integrated atmosphere-ocean-cryosphere physical model for long-term climate
forecasts with the objective to mode various greenhouse gas emissions scenarios. Addressing
principal infrastructure bottlenecks for information storage and transmission resulted in increased
daily volume of data sent and received in the Moscow Computing Center (up to 150Mbytes/5000
Mbytes respectively). One of the outcomes under this component is that 97.3 percent of stations
timely transmit data to the global telecommunication network (GTN) enabling a significant
increase in annual data volumes sent and received in the Moscow World Meteorological Center.
Thanks to a complex of activities related to upgrading of RosHydromet's archiving facility in
Obninsk response time for requests for archived data from Obninsk data archive has shortened
considerably and reached several hours (under 12 hours currently). The long-term (infinite)
survival of data was achieved due to supply and installation of the management complex for the
system of data rewriting from magnetic tapes and archiving system control kernel.
52.   Component B: Upgrading of the Observation Networks. Main expected outcome:
availability and quality of data that contributes to forecasting is secured and improved.
23


﻿This component intended to modernize key elements of Roshydromet's meteorological and
hydrological observational networks. As a result of the project, all the working meteorological
stations (1628 in total) were upgraded. The share of automated and semi-automated observation
points in the surface meteorological observation network reached 85 percent. As of the end of the
project, 64 percent of the total working aerologic stations satisfy the WMO requirements. As a
result of modernization activities of the hydrological network, the lead time of hydrological
forecasts in three priority river basins (Kuban, Ussuri, and Oka) grew to 4.1 hours, and for flash
floods it is now 3-6 hours in mouth reaches. Activities for improving meteorological support,
including modernization of the reference and calibration facilities of the GGI (State Hydrological
Institute), commissioning of the modern reference system for calibration and verification of
acoustic profilers, supply of stationary and mobile calibration laboratories enhanced the
meteorological base of the Roshydromet. 12 satellite data receiving stations and 23
meteorological data visualization system sets were also provided. Equipment was supplied for
hydrological forecasting, operational archiving and monitoring of atmospheric pollution. All
these activities combined enabled specialists of forecasting units to get larger data volumes of
high quality.
53.   Component C: Institutional Strengthening, Improvement in        Information
Dissemination and Emergency Preparedness. Main expected outcomes: (i) development and
pilot testing of a Roshydromet concept of operations, and (ii) improvement in the lead time for
warnings delivered to population in case of hazardous weather events.
With the support of the project, the "Strategy of Activities in Hydrometeorology and Related
Areas till 2030 (with Regard to Climate Change Aspects)" was developed and subsequently
adopted by Government Decree in September 2010. The efficiency of Roshydromet management
activities was enhanced due to automation of management processes in various areas and
assistance in methodological support and development of management principles for
modernization of observation networks. One of the key issues threatening the sustainability of
Roshydromet and the quality of its current and future service delivery was the lack of interest of
qualified candidates in work in Roshydromet's system. At the end of the project, the number of
qualified candidates to specialist positions grew by 34 percent as compared to 2004. A distant
training system was developed on the basis of one central and five regional centers, and is
expected to bring about an increase in the number of Roshydromet specialists who receive not
just knowledge but practical work skills with advanced equipment and technologies.
The capacity of Roshydromet to provide timely warnings for dangerous weather events has
significantly improved. The average lead time of storm warnings grew from 30 to 60 minutes for
flash floods and from 1 to 1.5 hours for strong storms.
Assessment of Roshydromet's services was carried out through a survey of client data needs
aiming to improve user interface and through introduction of a monitoring system. Subsequently,
two rounds of the survey were undertaken in 2010 and 2011 at the time when major parts of the
modernization in all regions had been implemented, showing overall positive evaluation of the
Roshydromet's services.
24


﻿Additional activities were included in 2011 under this component which supported a review of
the Roshydromet system for Environmental Monitoring and its future role in the integrated
national system of environmental monitoring. The feasibility studies served as technical input for
preparation of the Russia Integrated Environmental Monitoring Project, currently under
preparation.
3.3 Efficiency
54.    Improvements in timely and more accurate weather forecasting information were realized
as a result of several benefits: (i) to Roshydromet - in the form of productivity gains in providing
more timely and accurate weather forecasting information, (ii) to regional and municipal
governments in planning and disaster response, (iii) to economic sectors that can use the
improved information to better prepare and possibly mitigate the impacts of hazardous events,
(iv) the international community by receiving better quality information for input into global
circulation and weather forecasting models, and (v) to the general public in making their daily
decisions.
55.    The main benefits elicited for evaluating the Project's economic efficiency were the
prevention of economic losses in weather-dependent sectors of the economy, avoided loss of
human life, and benefits to the general public (see Annex 3 for further details). Other benefits
are recognized, but to be conservative the analysis only includes benefits for which information
is readily available. Total economic losses among key sectors was estimated to be between RUR
32-49.6 billion (US$ 1.0-1.6 billion) annually, with the majority of these impacts occurring in the
housing and communal sector, fuel and energy sector, agriculture and motor transport. The loss
of human life is highly variable depending on the frequency and severity of the hazardous event,
but on average was under one hundred annually. The employed methodology to value the loss of
human life was the Human Capital Approach (HCA) - which approximates the foregone
earnings of an individual over their economically-productive life. The third major benefit is the
value of hydrometeorological information by the general public - which was elicited through a
socioeconomic survey in 2010.
56.    The main assumption for losses in economic sectors and human life was to what degree
losses are actually preventable - and within that - the degree to which they were preventable by
the project. For the general public, the metric was what the general public would be willing to
pay (WTP) for hydromet services under improved forecasting. The following assumptions, and
sensitivity ranges, were used to calculate the economic efficiency of the project:
*  The share of potentially preventable economic losses avoided due to the project: 5-10
percent
*  The share of potentially preventable human deaths avoided due to the project: 0-100
percent
*  The percentage change in prevention costs from improved forecast: 5-8 percent
*  Annual preventable deaths due to the project: 50-100
*  Number of economically-productive years of an individual whose life is lost: 20-40 years
*  Willingness to pay by the general public for improved hydromet forecasts: RUR50-
100/year
*  Average GDP growth (2005-2011): 4.15 percent
25


﻿*  Average annual population growth (2005-2011): -0.19 percent
*  Average adult population (2005-2011): 102.1 million
*  Discount rate: 5-12 percent
57.    Using a total project cost of US$178.5 million and the lower limit values of the
assumptions above, economic efficiency was 1:1.22 after discounting benefits and costs over the
7-year lifetime of the project - and not accounting for human losses. This implies that for every
1 US$ invested there was a corresponding benefit of US$1.22 from reduced economic losses in
sectors reliant on weather information. In the medium scenario, and after accounting for human
losses, the ratio was 1:2.0 and using the upper limit values, and accounting for general public
benefits, the ratio was between 1:9.1 and 1:15.2. Based on these values the project can be
assessed as economically efficient.  A  sensitivity analysis revealed that changes in the
assumption of the general public's WTP had the greatest influence on these results. Changing
WTP by RUR 1 changed the ratio by 3.9 percent.
58.    In terms of the distribution of benefits - in the low and medium scenarios (which do not
account for general public benefits) over 90 percent of benefits accrue from avoided losses to
sector, whereas in the high scenario (including general public benefits) - the distribution flips
and 67-80 percent of the benefits accrue to the general public and 19-32 percent accrue to
avoided economic losses. So, even though the project is justified on economic efficiency
grounds, the distribution of benefits depends on the level of public demand for weather
information.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
59.    Overall, the project development objective has been met, and the development targets
have been achieved or exceeded. Project investments in maintaining Roshydromet's key
functions, restoring and strengthening its human and technical capacity to provide timely
forecast of hydrometeorological events and meet its commitments to World Meteorological
Organization were central for arresting the deterioration of the national hydrometeorological
service and set the foundations for its further modernization.
60.    While the design of some of the performance indicators was overly complicated, it
nevertheless supported the achievement of the intended outcomes and objectives. Moreover, the
objectives, design and implementation retained their overall relevance and remained fully
consistent with Russia's development priorities and with the Bank's country and sectoral
assistance strategies.
61.    The level of efficiency was high. Project costs were justified, as benefits outweigh the
costs substantially.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
26


﻿62.   By achieving its stated objectives the project eventually helped to increase the level of
protection of the Russian economy and population from extreme weather related events through
improved weather forecasting services. While not measured directly this eventually helps to
reduce vulnerability of businesses and people living in areas prone to severe weather impacts,
fostering social cohesion.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
63.   The project did not create new institutions, nor did it alter significantly the structure of
existing institutions. Instead, it strengthened the existing one, to make it more viable, vibrant and
client-oriented agency. The project included a modest institutional strengthening program, and it
was agreed up front that step-by-step approach would be employed in the course of institutional
reform, starting with comprehensive evaluation of the entire Roshydromet system, to include a
detailed institutional and regulatory review and an assessment of its economic and financial
system, including inventory of assets, and assessment of operation and maintenance needs.
64.   The momentum    created by the Project in terms of visibility and benefits of
Roshydromet's services was complemented by the development of the "Strategy of Activities in
Hydrometeorology and Related Areas for the Period until 2030 (including Climate Change
Aspects)" which was approved by the Government in September 2010. This provides a strong
basis for Roshydromet's future development.
65.    One of the contributing factors to the sustainability and long-term capacity development
elements is the establishment of six regional training centers in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Rostov-
on-Don, Novosibirsk, Irkutsk, and Vladivostok. It is envisaged that each year about 3,000
specialists from Roshydromet system would be trained in those centers, and the cost of training
and capacity development would decrease by at least three-fold, thanks to reduction of travel
costs.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
66.   In the course of implementation of Emergency Preparedness/Response sub-component
(Component C), the need to revise normative documents and regulations of the Ministry of
Emergency, in particular in part dealing with criteria and approaches to information delivery and
distribution of warnings and emergency information, was revealed. It is not clear though whether
this revision was done.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
67.   Roshydromet carried out an assessment of its services through a survey of client data
needs aiming to improve user interface and through introducing of a monitoring system. The
survey followed the standards for surveys of users of hydrological and weather information and
services performed by other foreign Hydromet services in compliance with the Summary Guide
to Survey Design and Delivery (2010) by the WMO Public Weather Services Program (PWSP).
It was done in three stages: Stage 1 - Development of methodology for the Roshydromet user
survey (2005), Stage 2 - Testing and adjustment of the methodology for the Roshydromet user
survey (2007) in pilot regions, Stage 3 - Monitoring of users' evaluation of the Roshydromet
27


﻿services (implementation of the monitoring system), which was implemented in two waves in
2010 and 2011. The client satisfaction based on respondents' response rates was close to 65
percent. The results obtained at all stages of the study demonstrate a consistently positive
estimate of satisfaction with HMI quality among all groups of users, with an upward trend.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
68.   There are two risks to sustaining the development outcome of the project: financial
resources provided to Roshydromet and availability of qualified staff.
69.   The risk regarding internal Roshydromet capacity to sustain project outcomes and
allocate resources for O&M is moderate. Roshydromet follows the new budget guidelines for
forward budget planning which allows internal prioritization with regards to operational
expenses generated by the new equipment acquired under the Project. The total budget of the
Roshydromet has been increased by the government more than seven times since the beginning
of the project from US$76.6 million in 2003 to US$ 570 million in 2011. However, the increased
cost of labor consumed the largest share of this increase, while Roshydromet staff remained
about the same (36,000). Average monthly staff salary grew from US$150 in 2003 to US$700 in
2011. Regardless, budget support for research and development is lagging, particularly for
introduction of new technologies in regional RHM branches. Roshydromet management believes
that broad introduction of automatic equipment would gradually lead to staff optimization with
no commitment to schedule.
70.   In July 2011, the Government Decree (dated July 6, 2011) stipulated that all high schools
(colleges) financed by federal agencies were to be transferred to regional budgets. This included
also the transfer of Hydromet college assets acquired under the project (about US$1.8 million).
While the transfer of Hydromet technical high schools (colleges) providing vocational training
and financed by federal agencies to regional authorities, represents an external problem, there is
a risk that Roshydromet may experience shortage of young technical specialists to replace its
aging technical staff. This could undermine the sustainability of project's results and may hold
back Roshydromet's human resource capacity in particular for observation networks and the
regional branches. Roshydromet is implementing a plan for resolving this issue through the
development of long- term Roshydromet program for training specialized cadre in the technical
universities, and also for retaining of young and experienced staff. Finding a long-term solution
would be essential for Roshydromet's institutional sustainability.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
71.   The Bank's performance in project identification, support for preparation, and appraisal
is rated satisfactory, despite some minor shortcomings with the way the PDO was framed and
measured. Project preparation and design was thorough. On the Bank side, preparation was
28


﻿undertaken by a team with an appropriate skill mix and significant country experience. It
involved detailed field visits, stakeholder interviews and various workshops. During the
preparation and design phase, intensive client interaction and cooperation took place leading to a
joint project design. The PDO was clear and realistic, with project components and activities
well linked and supporting the PDO outcomes. The PDO indicators and targets in principle
provided a comprehensive reflection of the expected project achievements. In addition, the
project design was far-reaching in introducing important concepts such as activity based costing,
beneficiary surveys, etc.
72.    The project was consistent with the Government of Russian Federation's priorities to
address reduction of risks to life and economy from unfavorable weather conditions through
provision of timely and accurate weather information. Its objectives are also closely linked to
the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy both then and now. Despite its complexity, the project
design allowed for the delivery of the project goals.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
73.    Bank supervision was adequate and satisfactory. The Bank team provided timely
responses, actions and clearances and most of the time met internal reporting deadlines. The core
team members were engaged throughout project implementation and maintained excellent
working relationships with counterparts. The teams were both technically competent and
responsive to emerging issues of the project and Roshydromet's needs. Implementation support
missions included regular site visits, updates, and agreements on follow-up steps. The fact that
the TTL of the project was initially based in Moscow also helped, as he was available to travel
on demand, especially during critical situations.
74.    Continuous presence of fiduciary staff in the project team merits particular mentioning as
detailed procurement reviews identified and addressed many issues which would have otherwise
hampered implementation. Implementation support visits focused on the project's development
impact and outcome, in addition to monitoring the physical targets. The task team was also
reasonably flexible in making changes/modifications to project activities to address evolving
needs and issues.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
75.    In light of all of the above, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
76.    The Government, through the Ministry Finance, demonstrated its support and
commitment to the project not least through a significant increase of funding allocation to the
project (counterpart funding). Government policies and policy priorities remained highly
29


﻿consistent with the project. The Government also maintained the structure of the Project
Management Committee (PMC), headed by the Head of Roshydromet and comprising of senior
officials of Roshydromet, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and BEA,
which oversaw the implementation of the project, ensured coordination and communication
among the different agencies. The PMC worked reasonably well, focusing primarily on principal
decisions, strategic and complex issues. During the life of the project PMC held 121 meetings in
total.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
77.   Roshydromet. Roshydromet provided strong leadership and demonstrated ownership
during project preparation and maintained its commitment to the project throughout the entire
implementation period. Its Expert Committee established for the project provided technical
expertise and advice to the PMC. Component managers and leaders of specific sub-
components/activities oversaw the implementation process and played a proactive role in
developing specific technical solutions, which lead to a range of adjustments and modifications
for improved design and better performance of the Roshydromet system.
78.   Bureau of Economic Analysis. BEA played a critical role in ensuring the success of the
project. The tasks of BEA which included a core team of highly dedicated and hard-working
staff were massive in terms of: (a) managing and coordinating a large number of complex
procurement packages and overseeing their implementation throughout all project sites, (b)
interacting with Roshydromet and the Bank, (c) providing project reports, and (d) responding to
implementation issues and taking actions. The initial delay in staffing of BEA was a bottleneck.
Project implementation might have also benefited from a larger number of staff in BEA. But
overall BEA handled effectively procurement, financial management and disbursement aspects
of the implementation, and maintained a good control over project resources and maintained the
regular monitoring of the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
79.   Strong political commitment and dedication of implementing agencies were the main
factors in overcoming most of the initial difficulties and delays and brought the project to a
successful completion. Therefore, the Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
80.   The first and most important lesson revealed during implementation of the project is the
need to invest heavily in the detailed technical preparation and planning for a project of
such technical complexity. Slow implementation and disbursements during the first years of
implementation were largely due to a need to spend considerable amount of time for the
preparation of technical specifications and tender documents, as well as for addressing
evaluation and scoping issues. Indeed, task of this complexity cannot be done quickly. Thus, the
task teams should be ready for long preparation process rather than front-loading implementation
with preparation of technical designs.
30


﻿81.    While preparing technical specifications for sophisticated equipment such as those
procured under this project, one should consider a "holistic" approach. In this case, it means
taking into consideration delivery, preparation of space for the equipment, installation and
preparation for its operation so as to minimize the costs for recipients of this equipment and to
avoid potential conflicts in schedules and requirements.
82.    Projects of this nature and scale should envisage contingency funds/unallocated
resources because the true scale of works and goods unveils during detailed designs and
elaborations. This is particularly relevant when detailed designs were not completed during
project preparation period.
83.    Institutional strengthening and capacity improvements are complicated but absolutely
essential to ensure sustainability of the project results. Stability of the teams, both on the
Borrower's and the Bank's side, is an important contributing factor for continuous
dialogue on these issues.
84.    Involvement of clients/users/beneficiaries of future Roshydromet system in consultations
and creation of public support for Roshydromet modernization was very helpful. Use of
economic assessments and effective communication of their results to decision makers,
particularly to the Ministry of Finance, proved to be an invaluable tool in strengthening the
government commitment to the Project.
85.    This project is a good example of value added the Bank brings in middle income
counties. The Government of Russia requested the Second Roshydromet Modernization Project,
based on the success of this one, not for the money, but for how the Bank supports
implementation of projects and know how that comes with it.
86.    This project was the first and remains the largest project in the area of
modernization/upgrading of hydrometeorological services. As a flagship project it played a
significant role in pioneering the assistance in this line of business Bank-wide.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
87.    The Borrower had no specific comments. The draft was discussed with representatives of
Roshydromet and BEA. The overall assessment and rating on the performance of the project was
found acceptable. A summary of the Borrower's ICR is presented in Annex 6.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A
31


﻿32


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
Appraisal Revised    Actual  Percentage Percentage
Components1ppaa1______________________
Estimate Estimate           of Appraisal of Revised
A. Modernization of Computing,
Archiving and Telecommunication Facilities
Al. Modernization of the Moscow WMC and     41.00    33.90     41.5      100%        122%
Obninsk Archiving Facility
A2. Restructuring of Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk  10.70  8.10    8.0       75%        100%
RMCs and Modernization of Voeikovo GGO
A3. Modernization of Communications and Data  10.40   5.30      5.0       49%        95%
Transmission System
B. Upgrading of the Observational Networks  56.90     79.8     103.9     182%        130%
B1. Surface Observation Network             23.30    49.10     63.3      272%        129%
B2. Aerological (Upper-Air) Network         6.60     13.30      13.4     203%        101%
B3. Meteorological Radars and Lighting Detection  11.40  0.0    0.0       0%          0%
B4. Regional Hydrometeorological Centers     7.2      6.8       6.7       95%        93%
B5. Hydrological Network                    8.40     10.60     20.50      126%       244%
C. Institutional Strengthening, Improvements in
Output Dissemination, and Emergency         7.90      3.20     11.10     141%        347%
Preparedness
C1. Institutional Strengthening             3.60      1.80     8.90      248%        495%
IC2. Client Services System                  1.90     0.70      1.00      55%        144%
IC3. Emergency Preparedness and Response    2.40      0.70      0.70      30%        100%
C4. Review of Roshydromet subsystems for                  0.5   0.5        -         100%
environmental monitoring (incl. pollution)
D. Project Management, Training, and
Monitoring and Evaluation/Preparation of the  6.40    6.40     9.00      141%        141%
Proposed Second National Hydromet
Modernization Project
TOTAL                                      133.33    136.70   178.50     134%        131%
(b) Financing
Type of Co-   Appraisal     Actual     Percentage of
Source of Funds            financing     Estimate  (US$ millions)  Appraisal
(US$ millions)
[Borrower                                             53.33        98.80         185%
International Bank for Reconstruction and  Loan       80.00        79.70         99%
Development
TOTAL                                                 133.33      178.50         134%
33


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
(a) Project Costs (in US$ Million) and Outputs (in units) by Project's Summary Components/Activities
Component/Activities                                     Units      PAD      Restructured    Actual
Estimate    Estimate    Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
A. MODERNIZATION OF COMPUTING, ARCHIVING AND                                           US$           62.1        47.3          54.5
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES                                                           Million
Al. Modernization of the Moscow WMC and Obninsk Archiving Facility                     US$           41.0        33.9          41.5
Million
Central Computers (WMC)                                                                  number       1           1            100
Supply of additional equipment to expand the data storage system of the computer complex of the  number  -        1             100
Main Computer Center ofRoshydromet
Replacement of cargo elevator at WMC Moscow                                              number       -           1             100
Modernization ofpower lead-in at Roshydromet MIC including replacement of transformer unit and  number  -         1             100
main switchboard
Supply and installation of engineering equipment in WMC in Moscow                          set        -           1             100
Supply and installation of the Complex archive system                                   complex       -           1             100
Supply and installation of the Management complex ofsystem of rewriting of magnetic tapes and  complex  -         1             100
storages of the information
Supply and installation of the Complex of release of information production on paper carriers  complex  -         1             100
Supply and installation of the Automated (robotized) Library                             library      -           1             100
Supply of equipmentfor building prototypes of the Data Collection and Production Center in  center    -           1             100
Obninsk
Training for WMC                                                                         person       -          604           100
Training for archiving center
person        -          106           100
A2. Restructuring of Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk RMCs and Modernization of              US$           10.7        8.1            8.0
Voeikov GGO                                                                            Million
Supply and installation Computers                                                        number       3           3             100
Supply and installation of engineering equipment in RSMC in Khabarovsk and Novosibirsk     set        2           2             100
Training for regional centers                                                            person       -          276           100
34


﻿Component/Activities                                    Units      PAD      Restructured    Actual
Estimate    Estimate    Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
A3. Modernization of Communications and Data Transmission System                      US$           10.4        5.3           5.0
Million
Roshydromet' departmental distributed communication network                             RHM          70         93            133
centers
Supply of equipmentfor building prototypes of the Global Information System Center in Moscow  center  -          1            100
Training for telecommunications                                                         person       -          64            100
Porting of software for telecoms                                                        person       -           15           100
B. UPGRADING OF THE OBSERVATIONAL NETWORKS                                            US$          56.9        79.8          103.9
Million
Bi. Surface Observation Network                                                       US$          23.3        49.1          63.3
Million
Supply and installation of the equipment of a surface meteorological network           stations     900        1844
Outfitting of the surface meteorological network                                       stations      -          114           100
Supply of sensors to the stations of TsGSM BAS                                            set        -           6            100
Installation of the automatic meteorological complexes and equipment                    number       -          371           100
Supply and installation of the Mobile automated testing laboratories                    number       -          28            100
Supply and installation of the Stationary testing laboratories                          number       -          14            100
Supply and installation of flow-measuring flumes                                        number       -          12            100
B2. Aerological (Upper-Air) Network                                                   US$           6.6        13.3          13.4
Million
Supply and installation of the aerological computer complexes                           number      45          60
Additional supply and installation of the aerological computer complexes                number       -           2            100
Additional supply and installation of the aerological computer complexes                number       -           2            100
Supply and installation of the hydrogen generators (with gasholders)                    number       -          12            100
Supply ofgas analyzers and control system for gas generating plants                     number       -           8            100
B3. Meteorological Radars and Lighting Detection                                      US$           11.4    -            -
Million
Meteorological Radars                                                                   number       8
B4. Regional Hydrometeorological Centers                                              US$           7.2         6.8           6.7
Million
35


﻿Component/Activities                                     Units      PAD      Restructured    Actual
Estimate    Estimate    Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
Supply and Installation ofSatellite Receiving Systems                                    number       16          15
Supply and installation of Visualization Systems                                         number       -           24            100
Supply and installation of the equipment for operational and forecasting subdivisions of   set       5-10         91            180
UGMS/TSGMS
Supply and installation of equipment and software forprocessing and accumulation of        set       220         230            106
hydrometeorological data for the operational archive
Development of the special software and training                                         reports      -           2             100
B5. Hydrological Network                                                               US$           8.4         10.6          20.5
Million
Modernization of hydrological network ofKuban, Ussuri and Oka river basins and equipping of  hydropost  -        227            100
hydrological posts
Supply and installation of mobile hydrological laboratories                              number       -           16            100
Modernization of the GGI reference standard base                                           set        -           1             100
Supply of mobile hydrological laboratories and equipment for them                        number       -           20            100
Designing a hydrological monitoring system for the hydrological network (including 3 priority river Person
basins)                                                                                (ind.          7           7            100
cosultants)
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING, IMPROVEMENTS IN OUTPUT                                 US$           7.9         3.2           11.1
DISSEMINATION, AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS                                              Million
C1. Institutional Strengthening                                                        US$           3.6          1.8          8.9
Million
Designing an automated decision management system and developing rules and guidelines of its  reports  -          2             100
operation
Supply and installation of hardware and software for the automated decision management system  set    -           1             100
and its implementation in the Roshydromet central office, UGMS, TsGMS, and research institutions
Additional supply and installation of hardware and software for the decision management system and  set  -         1            100
its implementation in the Roshydromet central office, UGMS, TsGMS, and research institutions
Developing draft guidelines for observations with the account of the re-equipment of the  reports     -           2             100
Roshydromet surface observing network
Developing draft guidelines for observations with the account of the re-equipment of the  reports     -           2             100
Roshydromet hydrological network
Developing guidelines for implementation ofDoppler Meteorological Radars                 reports      -           2             100
Acquaintance with the experience offoreign meteorological services                        tour        -            1            100
36


﻿Component/Activities                                      Units       PAD      Restructured     Actual
Estimate    Estimate     Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
Development of the personnel training and retraining program, including establishment of regional  reports  -        2             100
training centers, development ofpersonnel motivations
Workshop on technical development of the Roshydromet observing network with the participation of  number  -          1             100
the hydrometeorological equipment manufacturers
Supply and installation of equipment into the Roshydromet training centers, including regional  training  -          17            100
centers                                                                                    centers
Description and cost estimation of works at the federal level and government services in
hydrometeorology and related areas, and environmental monitoring financed from the federal  reports      -           2             100
budget.
Listing ofstandard works in the field of hydrometeorology and related areas at the regional level;
preparation of recommendations for the regional authorities on description and execution of these  reports  -        2             100
works.
Development of the draft methodological recommendations for the assessment ofgovernment cost
efficiency in the field of hydrometeorology and related areas                              reports       -           2             100
Developing and testing a technique for cost accounting by kinds of activity to be used for financial  reports  -     3             100
and economic activities optimization for Y2008-2010
Services of individual consultants                                                         person        -           10            100
Services of individual consultants                                                         person        -           1             100
Workshop "Re-equipping and modernization of the state hydrometeorological observing network  number      -           1             100
Workshop "Re-equipping and modernization of the state hydrometeorological observing network  number      -           1            100
C2. Client Services System                                                               US$            1.9         0.7            1.0
Million
Orientation visits of the Roshydromet employees to the National Hydrometeorological Services
(Australia, UK, Germany, France) to learn about organization of weather warning systems,    tour         -           3             100
providing services to various customers, including information systems for customers
Developing a concept of the Roshydromet Corporate Information Space                        person        -           2             100
Development of techniques to estimate prevented damage thanks to the use ofhydrometeor logical  reports  -           3             100
data in weather dependant industries of the economy
Creating a database for clients concerning negative impacts of unfavorable and dangerous weather  reports  -         3             100
phenomena, and efficiency of the hydrometeorological information usage.
Workshops with the main users of the hydrometeorological data (Ministry of Emergency Situations,
Ministry ofAgriculture, Ministry of Transport, etc. responsible for taking preventive measures to  number  -         6             100
ensure safety of the population and the economy, as well as RAO EES Rossii, Fuel and energy
complex, Communal services, etc.) including issues ofproper use ofhydrometeorological data and
37


﻿Component/Activities                                      Units      PAD      Restructured     Actual
Estimate    Estimate     Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
their interpretation
Publication ofadvertising materials                                                         set         -           1            100
Test run and update of the system to monitor the clients appraisal of the Roshydromet data  reports    -            2            100
Monitoring of the clients' appraisal of the Roshydromet data (introducing a system of monitoring)  reports  -       3            100
Orientation visits of the Roshydromet employees to the National Hydrometeorological Services
(Australia, UK, Germany, France) to learn about organization of weather warning systems,   tour        -            3            100
providing services to various customers, including information systems for customers
C3. Emergency Preparedness and Response                                                 US$           2.4          0.7           0.7
Million
Supply and installation of the automated mobile systems of hydrometeorological support in  number       -           3            100
emergency situations
Adaptation of electronic topographical maps and their introduction in GIS programs with the  reports    -           2            100
purpose to forecast flood zones
Review of the system for detection, forecasting and warning about dangerous phenomena; drafting
recommendations for the system improvement with cooperation with the Ministry ofEmergency  reports      -           2            100
Situations
Developing content and layout of the information leaflets for the population on the necessary actions  orts  -      2            100
in case of dangerous (adverse) hydrometeorological phenomena.                             rep
Issuing information leaflets for the population on the necessary actions in case of dangerous  set      -           1            100
(adverse) hydrometeorological phenomena.
Workshop on providing hydrometeorological safety at the regional level.                   number       -            1            100
C4. Review of Roshydromet subsystems for monitoring of the condition and pollution      US$         -         -             0.5
of the environment                                                                      Million
Reports                                                                                   reports       -           2            100
D. Project Management, Training, and Monitoring and Evaluation/ Preparation of the      US$            6.4         6.4           9.0
Proposed Second National Hydromet Modernization Project                                 Million
D1. Equipment for PIU                                                                   US$            0.2         0.2           0.1
Million
D2. System Integration Consultancy                                                      US$            1.4         1.4           2.1
Million
38


﻿Component/Activities                                       Units       PAD      Restructured     Actual
Estimate     Estimate    Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
D3. Audit Consultancy                                                                      US$           0.1          0.1            0.2
Million
Audits                                                                                                    6            9             150
D4. Incremental Operational Costs                                                          US$           4.7          4.7            5.7
Million
D5. Preparation of the National Hydromet System Modernization Project-2                    US$         -         -              0.9
Million
Preparation ofproposals on modernization and technical upgrade of hydrological network ofRHM  reports     -            2             100
and technical design for the modernization of hydrological network in selected river basins
Evaluation of the modernization of the surface meteorological network and development ofproposals
and technical requirements for additional supply of equipment including mobile complexes and  person      -            5            100
systems
Development of technical design for the opening ofI global and 3 regional stations of observatory  person  -           3            100
type
Evaluation of the modernization of the aerological (upper air) network, development of technical  person  -            2            100
requirements on further modernization of the aerological (upper air) network
Review of the normative and technical documents regulating activities in the field of
hydrometeorology and related fields and preparation ofproposals on their further refinement taking  reports  -         2            100
into account the transfer to GOSTR ISO 9000-2008 quality standards and technical regulations of
WMO
Analysis ofpossibilities and preparation ofproposals for location and implementation of distant
measuring systems of temperature and wind profiles (profile meters) and development of technical  reports  -           2            100
specifications for the mentioned systems
Designing of technical requirements for the basic part of the integrated information-
telecommunication system ofRosHydromet for collection and dissemination ofhydrometeorological  person     -            3            100
information
Evaluation of the Project outcomes with regard to the institutional strengtherning and client service
system development, preparation ofproposals on contributing to the ongoing reforming of                                             100
RosHydromet, further development of the client service system and better emergency preparedness
taking into account the future funding of RosHydromet operation
Technical design ofupgrading the computer infrastructure ofRosHydromet's devisions and
institutions (MCC ofRosHydromet, RSMC Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk, SGO, SHI, AARI, Regional
Branches). Development of requirement specifications for upgrading of computer infrastructure of  reports  -           2             100
RosHydromet used for operational hydrometeorological information processing, including
integration with the existing supercomputer complexes
39


﻿Component/Activities                                       Units       PAD      Restructured     Actual
Estimate     Estimate    Implemented
Mid-Term -
Year 2008
Analysis of the results of building of an automated management decision-making system and a
complex ofsituational centers and preparation ofproposals for their development with regard to  person                 2            100
integration of the mentioned systems with inter-agency electronic communication systems and for
ensuring fulfillment of government functions and services by Roshydromet in the electronic form
Analysis of the results of re-equipment of the archiving system ofRHM and preparation ofproposals
for development of routine data processing, accumulation and archiving systems, including those at  person  -          2             100
the regional level
Study the experience of other Meteorological Services (Study Tours)                           tour        -            7            100
Total                                                                                      US$          133.3       136.7*         178.5*
Million
*Including all custom duties and taxes paid.
40


﻿41


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1.     This Annex presents an ex-post economic analysis for the Russian National Hydromet
Modernization Project (henceforth RHM-1) for the Implementation Completion and Results
Report (ICR). The main development objective of the project was to increase the accuracy of
forecasts provided to the Russian people and economy by modernizing key elements of
RosHydromet's technical base and strengthening its institutional arrangements. This would
enable enterprise and household adjustments to protect lives and support economic growth.
2.     The approach to this ex-post analysis draws on similar methodologies employed in other
hydromet service projects by the World Bank (e.g. Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan,
China, Nepal, Mozambique, and Vietnam), as well as best practice in performing economic
analyses of hydromet services in Europe and Central Asia (World Bank, 2008), and globally
(Hallegate, 2012). The approach builds on methods used during project appraisal of RHM-1 -
developed by a joint World Bank-Roshydromet working group, with the participation of NOAA
economists and in collaboration with WMO experts. The approach was also recently used for
appraisal of Russia's Second National Hydromet Modernization Project (RHM-2).
3.     The analysis uses three basic methods: sector-specific assessments, benchmarking and a
socio-economic survey.    The three methods are complementary and together provide a
comprehensive economic value of hydromet services. Sector-specific assessments are based on
specially-designed surveys of experts from weather-dependent sectors to obtain: (i) information
on the level of direct and indirect losses from hazardous weather events and adverse weather
conditions in a specific sector, and (ii) estimated changes in the share of preventable losses and
costs of protective measures due to a more accurate and timely hydrometeorological information
and forecasts as a result of modernization programs. The information is used to evaluate the
marginal effects from modernization for each weather-dependent sector and the aggregate effect
on the economy. Benchmarking is normally used when there is limited data on economic losses
from hydromet phenomena and when there are financial and time constraints for more
comprehensive surveys and studies. In these instances, benchmarks are applied drawing on
global experience of economic losses - where economic sector losses have averaged between 0.1
and 1 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) (World Bank, 2008).2 Socio-economic surveys
are used to elicit the benefits of hydromet information to the general public that is not captured
in the above two methods. It normally takes the form of a household survey where respondents
are asked a series of questions on weather-related information to understand their demand,
assessment of informational quality, and to gauge the performance of the current information
delivery system.3 Key to the analysis is asking the respondent what their willingness (or ability)
2 Benchmarking also involves adjusting for local factors such as the share of weather-dependent sectors in GDP, the
share of agriculture in GDP, a coefficient of preventable losses (global average between 0.2 to 0,6), meteorological
vulnerability and status of the hydromet service.
The typical scope of surveys includes: (i) identification of the weather information needs of different households'
users and the perceived importance and quality of this information; (ii) identification of the characteristics of
different household users and how they use weather information; (iii) evaluation of the quality of performance of
national weather service; and (iv) willingness to support the national weather service. See Lazo et al. (2009) as an
example for the US.
42


﻿to pay (WTP) would be for improvements in the performance of hydrometeorlogical forecasts
(e.g. accuracy, timing, regularity, access, etc).
4.     To support each method and the overall analysis - information was assembled from
Roshydromet experts, the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MCHS), the World Bank and
results from the socio-economic survey conducted in 2010 to monitor results of the first National
Hydromet Modernization Project (RHM-1). To capture data uncertainty, the analysis uses
ranges in its assumptions rather than point estimates to approximate the magnitude of anticipated
benefits.
5.     As with any analysis there are limitations. Perhaps the most significant limitation is
detailed information on economic losses in each sector. There is a lack of systematic collection
of this type of information or quantifying it in a manner that is consistent across sectors. At
times losses are even purely descriptive without numbers. Such data are only available for a few
sectors where loss calculation methodologies have been developed and are regularly used to take
account of losses. For instance, economic losses from environmental hazards in agriculture, the
housing and communal, fuel and energy and motor transport sectors were available - but
approximations were necessary for others. Thus, it is common practice to validate available
estimates using the benchmarking approach to estimating economic losses in sectors.
Benefits and beneficiaries:
6.     The benefits of the National Hydromet Modernization Project (henceforth, RHM-1),
comprises numerous public and private benefits. These are summarized as beneficiaries and
include:
*  Roshydromet - by enhancing its operational, technological and institutional capacity and
developing a modem weather service organization capable of providing accurate and
timely information, services and research on weather, climate and hydrology in
compliance with national strategic development goals and international commitments and
obligations
*  Regional and municipal governments
*  Economic sectors such as emergency, disaster reduction/civil protection, water resources
management, civil aviation and transport, agriculture, health, energy, forestry, communal
services, tourism, and maritime planning; as well as their representative agencies
*  The international hydrometeorological community by providing better access to reliable
and abundant observation data from the vast territory of Russia, and thus contributing to
more accurate global forecasting and through access of Roshydromet to global weather
and climate data
*  The general public who rely on accurate and timely weather forecasting in their daily
production and consumption decisions
7.     The first beneficiary, Roshydromet, is a provider of the information and benefits from the
more accurate and timely information it can provide. This implies an efficiency gain that is
quantified through the opportunity cost of time it takes for staff to respond or broadcast events or
43


﻿to inquiry. The second and third beneficiaries, sectors and government, are users of information
for planning or response - and more timely information translates into avoided economic losses.
The international community also derives significant benefits from improved information as it is
fed into global circulatory models that determine continental and global weather patterns.
Finally, the general public uses weather information on a daily basis to make decisions on
outdoor activities, commuting behavior, and many other "small" benefits - but is significant
because it applies to the entire population.
8.     Each of these beneficiaries have important and tangible benefits, however in terms of
quantifiable benefits through readily available data - the focus of this analysis is on three of the
largest local benefits - those associated with preventable losses in economic sectors, prevented
loss of human life from hazardous events, and the benefits to the general public. By focusing on
these three major benefits it should be understood that the estimated benefits derived here form a
lower bound - since they do not include all benefits.
9.     The following set of equations were used to evaluate the economic efficiency of the
project
Losses in sectors:  El = Yi (Vi * Ri* Si - Ci * Ai)                     (1)
Loss of life:       G = R * S * Pd * GDPPC * (1+r)m                     (2)
General public:     GP = (WTP * Sdem * POP)                             (3)
Economic efficiency: E = (GP + El + G) / PC                              (4)
where in equation (1):
i      Economic sector
Vi     Mean annual sector losses by hazard-type at current hydromet forecast quality
level
Ri     Percent of potentially preventable losses in each sector
Si     Percent of potentially preventable losses avoided due to RHM-1
Ci     Mean annual prevention expenditures in each sector
Ai     Percentage change in prevention costs from improved forecast
in equation (2):
R * S Share of human losses preventable by RHM-1
Pd     Annual loss of life
GDPPC Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita (market prices)
4 These sets of equations are the same as those used to evaluate RHM- 1 at appraisal, with the
exception of benefits to the general public - which was added in light of the socio-economic
survey conducted for RHM-1 during 2011 and 2012.
44


﻿r      Mean annual growth rate of real GDP
m      Mean economically active life of a person killed (years)
in equation (3):
El     Value of potentially preventable losses in economic sectors
G      Value of potentially preventable human losses
PC     Project costs
and in equation (4):
WTP Mean annual willingness to pay for improved hydromet services
Sdem   Percentage of population using hydromet service information (i.e. demand)
POP Adult population of Russia
10.   Preventable losses in sectors (Vi). Economic sectors experience loss in many different,
but related, ways. For example, agriculture experiences losses in the form of crop loss and the
potentially avoidable losses through better weather forecasting can be tangible but limited.
However, in sectors such as aviation or transport tremendous losses can be avoided by limiting
traffic during hazardous events such as storms or flash flooding. Disaster preparedness also has
a large economic benefit by readying the housing and communal sector in advance of flooding or
storms. The energy and fuel sectors also benefit from knowing that storms could affect
operations, or that in the event of heat or cold waves, demand for their services will increase
dramatically. In terms of planning, or in the worst case rationing, improved and timelier weather
forecasting becomes essential. Using information from Roshydromet, the order of magnitude of
economic losses among key economic sectors is estimated to be between $US1.0-1.6 billion
annually, with the majority of these impacts occurring in the housing and communal sector, fuel
and energy sectors, agriculture and motor transport (Table 1). Although this is likely an
underestimate of losses we use this range to be conservative.
Table 1. Average annual economic losses are approximately $US 1-1.6 billion per year.
($US billion, 2011 prices)
Hazardous events    Avg annual Max possible     Avg multi-  Avg potentially      Max
causing economic         No. of       annual         year     preventable    potential
and social losses        events      damage   econ damage          losses  econ benefit
All weather-related        391           4.1           2.6            1.0          1.6
Hydrological                33           3.6           1.3           0.6'         1.01
Meteorological             233           1.6           1.1            0.4          0.6
Source: Roshydromet, 2012.
1 - Estimates derived as residuals of all weather-related hazardous events minus meteorological events.
11.   Potentially preventable losses in sectors (Ri*Si). As mentioned above total sector losses
range from $US1-1.6 billion annually, but it should be understood that only a fraction of these
losses are truly avoidable if perfect information were available - and a further fraction of those
through project interventions. In other words, only a percentage of total economic losses are
truly avoidable (Ri), and of that, only a percentage can be to be attributable to project actions (Si).
To understand what these percentages could be, a survey was undertaken during RHM-1
45


﻿preparation with sector experts where a set of questions on economic sector losses and on
potentially preventable losses was posed. The results varied depending on the sector, however
across sectors the average percentage was found to be 8.5 percent (Table 2). To be conservative
we use a range of potentially preventable sector losses from 5-10 percent.
Table 2. Expected reduction of losses from unfavorable weather due to improved quality of
forecasts is 8.5 percent.
(Percent)
Ri                          S
(Share of weather losses                             Rx S
Sector                                     (Share of Ri that is preventable  RxS
ecrthat are potentially  if the project is implemented)
preventable)
Energy sector                      30.0%                       25.0%       7.5%
Communications                     30.0%                       25.0%      7.5%
Water resources                    30.0%                       25.0%       7.5%
Housing/ Communal                  40.0%                       30.0%      12.0%
Inland water transport             55.0%                        15.0%     8.25%
Civil aviation                     30.0%                       30.0%      9.0%
Agriculture                        57.5%                         1.5%  Up to 2%
Gas industry                       35.0%                       20.0%       7.0%
Average                                                                    8.5%
Source: RHM-1 Project Appraisal Document, Annex 4.1: Sector Assessment.
12.   Prevented sector losses in the past. Interventions to improve response time and disaster
preparedness have tended to pay off. While year-over-year events can be variable - prevented
losses have been increasing over time (Table 3). Some of this benefit can potentially be
attributable to the project (RHM-1) where the focus was on upgrading coverage of services
nationwide.
Table 3. The value of prevented losses has, on average, been rising across sectors.
($US million)
Sector                    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009     2010    2011
Industries                39.3    66.8     52.4    55.6    27.5    30.4    28.5
Energy sector            101.4   130.9    146.6   147.3   225.0   173.4   169.2
Agriculture               41.7    53.0     35.0    53.3    70.4    42.2    72.0
Forestry                   8.8     11.8    15.4    18.3    20.3    29.5    22.9
Fisheries                  5.7     5.9     12.4    15.4    19.1    26.8    27.5
Railways transport        15.1    13.1     11.5    11.9    13.4    22.9    13.7
Automobile transport      18.3    22.9     25.5    28.5    26.8    26.2    44.2
Pipeline transport         1.6     3.8      7.2     5.9    12.4    15.1    13.6
Marine transport          25.5     31.1    44.8    51.4    45.8    43.5    30.1
5 See RHM-1's Annex A.4 of the Economic Assessment.
46


﻿Sector                   2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011
Inland water transport    25.2    19.3    29.5    35.0    41.6    26.2    33.0
Aviation                  85.1    84.3    78.5   107.0   114.2   109.6   122.4
Communication              4.3     2.1     4.1     3.6     3.6     6.1     5.2
Construction              14.4    13.1    12.4    17.2    15.2    19.1    18.7
Communal services         39.3    48.6    40.2    55.0    41.9    68.7    30.1
Water sector              14.4    16.0    15.1    14.1    12.8    20.0    16.7
Health sector              4.6     4.6    14.4    18.3     8.5    29.1    10.5
Total                    444.7   527.2   545.0   637.7   698.5   688.8   658.2
Source: Oganesyan, 2012.
13.   Annual prevention expenditures (Ci) and the anticipated percentage change due to the
project (Ai). The cost of preventing hazardous events is a function of the anticipated severity,
and most importantly the lead time of knowing what to expect. Given the improvements in lead-
time accuracy under RHM-1 - prevention expenditures may go up or down depending on how
one responds to that information. Having more accurate information leads to less uncertainty
and the response is more proportional to the severity of the event. Collecting information on
prevention expenditures over the past decade, it was found that they constitute roughly 20-25
percent of the maximum total economic sector losses (Roshydromet, 2012). Using the same
figure for RHM-1, we calculate prevention expenditures as 20 percent of economic losses in
sectors (i.e. the value for Ci). In the same expert survey conducted for estimating potentially
preventable losses above, another question was posed on the anticipated percentage change in
6
prevention expenditures due to the project. The conclusion was that on average, and across all
sectors, the costs of prevention would increase by 7.9 percent - largely due to (i) increased
absolute expenditure, and (ii) demand price-response from an increase in expenditures. For the
purposes of RHM-1 evaluation we use a range of 5-8 percent to capture variability in the level,
and price, of prevention response (i.e. for Ai).
14.   Preventable loss of life. The loss of human life can greatly affect local communities
when major events occur. The recent flooding in the Southern part of Krasnodar Kray (July 6-7,
2012) destroyed buildings, disrupted power, gas and water supply, damaged roads and bridges
and worst of all 167 people were killed. These sorts of events have a certain level of prevention
and in this case early warning may have been able to prevent loss of life to some degree.
However, it should be understood that Roshydromet provides hydrometeorological information
to the system of first responders of emergency situations, but the decision to act on this
information is in the hands of first responders. So although improvements in the accuracy and
timeliness of forecasts is an extremely important input to the decision to act - ultimately RHM
can only be responsible for the information flow and not the outcome of first responders' action
or inaction.
6 The detailed results of that survey can be found in the background economic analysis documents for the RHM- 1
(Annex A.4).
47


﻿15.   There is a strong, positive relationship between the frequency of hazardous events and
human loss. However through more accurate and timely information this trend can reverse. For
example, in Figure 1 the number of hazardous events has generally been increasing since 2003,
but human loss has been on the decline. Improved weather forecasting and broadcast through
RHM- 1 has been noted to have contributed to this downward trend.
Figure 1. Although the number of hazardous events has risen - the mortality rate has slightly
declined.
(Number of hazardous events and related deaths)
500
450                                   435                   467
400                              4
350
300                                                                297
250
200      220
150
100
502
0
2003   2004   2005    2006   2007   2008   2009   2010    2011
-   Number of events (top)    -   Number of deaths (bottom)
-   Linear (Number of events (top))  -  Linear (Number of deaths (bottom))
Source: Ministry of Emergency Situations (MCHS), 2012.
16.   Annual deaths (Pd). The actual number of lives lost on an annual basis is suspected to be
subject to under-reporting. The data from the Ministry of Emergency Situations (MCHS) above
is official data however data from other sources suggest that the actual number of people killed
on an annual basis may be higher (EM-DAT).7 Rather than provide a point estimate of the
number of people killed through hazardous events we take a range from 50-100 - and which was
corroborated in communication with officials and practitioners from the Ministry of Emergency
Situations and Roshydromet (i.e. the value for Pd).
17.   Value of a human ife (foregone earnings) and percentage of preventable deaths (R*S).
To quantify the potential benefits of avoiding human loss of life, we adopt a method from the
economics literature that uses foregone earnings as a proxy of the value of what that person
would have contributed to the economy. Otherwise known as the Human Capital Approach
(HCA), per capita GDP is discounted over the number of economically-productive years lost due
to premature mortality. Since the average lifetime of a life lost can vary depending on the age of
the individual we vary estimates from 20-40 years. Average GDP was RUR 37,374 billion ($US
1,170 billion) and average economic growth was 4.15 percent during the project period of 7
7 See EM-DAT information at: http://www.emdat.be/ or www.preventionweb.net.
48


﻿years (World Bank, 2012). The average size of the population was 142.2 million with an
average annual population growth of -.0019 percent over the project period (World Bank, 2012).
The assessment also varied the percentage of potentially preventable deaths in the same manner
as with sectors - however with an even wider range - from 0 to 100 percent (i.e. the value for
(R*S)). What this implies is that through better forecasting or communications - none, or all, of
those whose life were lost on an annual basis could be avoided. While this assumption seems
rather dramatic - we include the two extremes to provide a sense of what the total benefits would
look like with and without human losses.
18.   Benefits to the general public. Users of Roshydromet's information include both the
general public and clients - such as those listed in Table 2 with specific informational needs. To
gauge the relative satisfaction of services they provide, and as part of RHM-1 project monitoring,
a survey in 2010 among a sample of general public users was undertaken to evaluate whether
they perceived any improvement in the speed, reliability or accuracy of information they use (see
Annex 5 and Roshydromet, 2010). The general public survey also asked respondents what their
maximum willingness to pay would be for fee-based service delivery - which was found to be
about RUR 500/month. Although it is entirely unrealistic to assume that the entire population of
Russia would actually pay this amount, on a monthly basis, for basic weather information that is
already provided for free - we assume that this amount could be an indicative of an annual value
the adult population places on this information. To estimate the general public's benefit from
improved weather information we conservatively assume that this willingness to pay varies by
RUR50-100 per person per year or about 10 percent of the maximum. Multiplying this amount
by the current adult population of 102.1 million this would imply an annual general public
benefit ranging from RUR 5.1 - 10.2 billion per year ($US 0.16 to $US 0.32 billion).
Project costs:
19.   Component costs. The total costs of the project were $US178.5 million with the
following breakdown by component:
Component A (US$54.5 million) - Modernization of Computing, Archiving and
Telecommunication Facilities
Component B (US$103.9 million) - Upgrading of Observation Networks
Component C (US$11.1 million) - Institutional Strengthening of the Roshydromet,
Improvement in Information Dissemination and Emergency Preparedness
Component D (US$9.0 million) - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Results:
49


﻿20.    Lower-, mid- and upper-bound estimates. The analysis creates four scenarios to give a
range of plausible estimates. In the low scenario assumptions on key parameters are set at their
lowest values, without human losses or general public benefits. In the medium scenario, key
assumptions are set at their mid-point range and human losses are included - but without general
public benefits. In the high scenario key parameters are set at their upper limits, general public
benefits are included and the assumption on the WTP is varied from RUR 50-100/adult/year.
Using a total project cost of $US 178.5 million and the lower limit values of the assumptions
above, the economic efficiency (El) is 1:1.22 after discounting benefits and costs over the 7-year
lifetime of the project (Table 4). This implies that for every $US 1 invested there is a
corresponding $US 1.22 of reduced economic losses. Using the mid-point assumptions and
including human losses the ratio is 1:2.0 and in the high scenarios the ratio is between 1:9.1 to
1:15.2 after including general public benefits. These benefit-cost ratios are within the ranges
found in other assessments regionally and globally (Hallegate, 2012; World Bank, 2008). Based
on these ratios the project can be assessed as economic efficient.
50


﻿Table 4. Project economic efficiency is between 1:1.22 and 1:15.2 according to the low, medium and high scenarios.
(Units indicated)
Preventable                                           Economic
Assumptions                      General public   losses            Preventable losses  Project costs    Efficiency
benefits (GP)     in sectors (El)  of human life (G)  (PC)              (E)
Low scenario: GP=0, G=0, E1>0    RUR 0 billion     RUR 4.9 billion  RUR 0 billion      $US 127.2 million  1:1.22
V = RUR32 billion                $US 0 billion     $US 0.2 billion  $US 0 billion
C = RUR9.928 billion             (0% of benefits)  (100% of         (0% of benefits)
A =5                                               benefits)
R*S (deaths) = 0%
R*S (sectors) = 5%
Pd = 50
Economically-productive years: 20
GDP growth = 4.15%
Population growth= -0.002%
Discount rate = 5%
PC = $US 179 million
Life of project: 7 years
Adult population: 102.1 million
WTP = RURO/adult/year
Medium scenario: GP=0, G.>0, E1>0 RUR 0 billion    RUR 6.5 billion  RUR 0.2 billion    $US 104.4 million  1:2.01
V = RUR32 billion                $US 0 billion     $US 0.2 billion  $US 0.0 billion
C = RUR9.928 billion             (0% of benefits)  (97% of benefits)  (3% of benefits)
A = 6.5%
R*S (deaths) = 50%
R*S (sectors) = 7.5%
Pd = 75
Economically-productive years: 30
GDP growth = 4.15%
Population growth = -0.002%
Discount rate = 8%
PC = $US 179 million
Life of project: 7 years
Adult population: 102.1 million
WTP R RUR0/adult/year
51


﻿Preventable                                               Economic
Assumptions                        General public     losses             Preventable losses  Project costs      Efficiency
benefits (GP)      in sectors (El)    of human life (G)   (PC)               (E)
Hi2h scenarios: GP>0, G>0, El>0    WTP = RURS5:       RUR 7.4 billion    RUR 0.3 billion     $US 81.0 million   1:9.07
V = RUR32 billion                  RUR 15.7 billion   $US 0.2 billion    $US 0.0 billion
C = RUR9.928 billion               $US 0.5 billion    (31.6% of         (1.4% of benefits)
A = 8%                             (67.1% of          benefits)
R*S (deaths) = 100%                benefits)
R* S (sectors) = 10%
Pd = 100
Economically-productive years: 40
GDP growth = 4.15%                 WTP=RUROO:        RUR 7.4 billion    RUR 0.3 billion     $US 81.0 million   1:15.15
Population growth = -0.002%        RUR 31.5 billion   $US 0.2 billion    $US 0.0 billion
Discount rate = 12%                $US 1.0 billion    (18.9% of          (0.8% of benefits)
PC = $US179 million                (80.3% of          benefits)
Life of project: 7 years           benefits)
Adult population: 102.1 million
WWP                                       R 50-100 (see next column)
Source: Author's calculations, 2012.
52


﻿21.    Sensitivity analysis. A sensitivity analysis was also conducted to assess which
assumptions influence economic efficiency (El) the most. Clearly, including the benefits
to the general population (i.e. WTP) affects economic efficiency to the greatest degree.
For instance, a RUR 1 change in WTP changed the value of El by approximately 3.9
percent. This is intuitive since even a RUR 1 change when multiplied by the adult
population of Russia should significantly influence the estimate of economic efficiency.
22.    Distribution of Benefits. The distribution of benefits is indicated in each row of
Table 4. When benefits to the general public are included they constitute up to 19-32
percent of total benefits (except in the low and medium scenarios where they are not
included). The benefits of preventing economic losses in sectors constitute the majority
of benefits (i.e. 67-80 percent).
53


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                        Title              Unit       specilty
Specialty
Lending
Masood Ahmad             Lead Water Resources Specialis  SASDA   Hydrology
Lucy 0. Hancock         IConsultant GFDRR                      Meteorology
Manaemen  5F    CSO~   Financial
Alexander Mizgunov       Financial Management Specialis  ECSOQ  FMana
Management
Jonathan David Pavluk    Senior Counsel                LEGAM Counsel
Karl Skansing            Consultant                    AFTSE    Hydrometeorology
Vladimir V. Tsirkunov    Senior Environmental Engineer  GFDRR   Task Team Leader
Sergei Ulatov            Senior Economist              ECSP3    Client Relations
Anna L. Wielogorska      Senior Procurement Specialist  EASRI   Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Mikhail Alexandrov       Consultant                    ECSP4    Hydrometorology
Terrance R. Allsopp      Consultant                    ECSSD    Hydrometorology
Josephine A. Kida        Program Assistant             ECSSD    Program Assistance
Udo Gartner              Consultant                    ECSEN    Hydrometorology
Lucy 0. Hancock          Consultant                    GFDRR Metorology
Financial
Galina S. Kuznetsova     Sr Financial Management Specia  ECSO3  Mngmn
Management
Alexander Rukavishnikov  Senior Procurement Specialist  ECSO2   Procurement
Marina Igorevna Smetanina Consultant                   ECSEN    Institutional Issues
Nikolai Soubbotin        Senior Counsel                LEGAM Counsel
Hiwote Tadesse           Operations Analyst            ECSEG    Operations
Anna L Wielogorska       Senior Procurement Specialist  EASRI   Procurement
Vladimir Tsirkunov       Senior Environmental Engineer  GFDRR Task Team Leader
Adriana J. Damianova     Lead Environmental Specialist  ECSEN   Task Team Leader
Gayane Minasyan          Senior Environmental Economist  ECSEN  ICR Team Leader
Craig Meisner            Environmental Economist        ECSEN   Project Economics
Solvita Klapare          Environmental Economist        ECSEN   Quality Assurance
Toshiaki Keicho          Senior Urban Specialist        ECSUW   Project
Management
Anna Georgieva           Country Sector Coordinator     ECSSD   Client Relations
54


﻿(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle      N.                      US$ Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
[FY04                                  58                    249.78
FY05                                  27                    103.04
FY06                                   0                     0.00
FY07                                   0                     0.00
FY08                                   0                     0.00
Total:                                 85                    352.82
Supervision/ICR
FY04                                   0                     0.00
FY05                                   7                     50.13
FY06                                  23                    166.92
FY07                                  23                    146.49
FY08                                   18                   140.04
FY09                                  26                    139.75
FY10                                   23                    116.13
FY11                                   21                    144.35
FY12                                   12                    98.75
FY13                                   6                     45.94
FY14                                   3                     16.84
Total:                                162                   1,568.92
55


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
The National Hydromet Modernization Project supported the systematic monitoring of
clients' perceptions of RHM services, and the creation of a unique database to evaluate
demand for HMI (hydromet information) across the entire country. Monitoring clients'
perceptions was chosen as an efficient instrument to obtain such information to further
improve the RHM efficiency and its client focus. The approach is consistent with
standards for surveys among users of hydrological and weather information and services
as performed by foreign NMHS, and complies with the Summary Guide to Survey
Design and Delivery issued in 2010 by the WMO Public Weather Services Program
(PWSP).
The HMI user survey was developed in several stages. Stage I developed the
methodology in 2005 in consultation with materials from the World Meteorological
Organization (WMO) on conducting public opinion surveys. The Project team developed
an overall satisfaction estimate based on four elements:
*  Evaluation  of major HMI parameters: accuracy, accessibility, timeliness,
relevance, understandability, and completeness
*  Characteristics of demand for HMI: ranking of on-demand types of HMI, weather
parameters, forecasts based on lead time, and demand for supplementary services
(including fee-based)
*  Motivation for the use of HMI: evaluation of objective climate/environmental
situation in the region, evaluation of weather dependence and risks; and targeted use
of HMI
*  Information context: use intensity, dissemination channels, credibility, and ranking
of presentation formats
The sample included three target groups: the general public, economic entities, and
executive authorities. In Stage 2, in 2007, survey pretesting was conducted among three
Federal Okrugs (Siberian FO, Volga FO and the Far East FO). The survey was revised
using these results and the first wave of full-sample monitoring took place in 2010. For
the general public, face-to-face interviews were conducted among 2,205 respondents -
using a survey called "Let's talk about weather". A second wave with the general public
was conducted in 2011 among a sample of 2,196 respondents (see table below).
RF Federal Okrug P(D                Total       %
1.  North-Western FO                     205       9.3
2.  Central FO                           567      25.8
3.  Southern FO                          203       9.2
4.  North-Caucasus FO                    117       5.3
5.  Volga FO                             453      20.6
6.  Urals FO                             185       8.4
7.  Siberian FO                          296      13.5
8.  Far East FO                          170       7.7
Grand total                         2196     100.0
56


﻿Results obtained at all stages of the study demonstrate a consistently positive estimate of
satisfaction with HMI quality among all groups of users, with an upward trend. General
estimates of satisfaction with weather forecast quality by the public vary, for different
parameters, from 3.7 to 4.4 points (taking into account results of both waves). General
estimate of targeted client's satisfaction with weather quality is slightly higher, from 3.8
to 4.6 points. The highest estimate among all groups of users was consistently given to
such HMI parameters as accessibility, disclosure and relevance; a lower but still
consistently positive estimate was given to the lead time and timeliness of forecasts, and
their accuracy and reliability. The quality of client services received the highest scores
from targeted clients. The potential users of fee-based hydrometeorological services
steadily make up about 8-9 percent of the public. The prospects of expanding fee-based
services for the public depend on improving the speed and modes of delivery, reliability
and sustainability of HMI rather than expansion of the range of HM information and
services. The monthly price of RUR 500 is a critical level for the Russian public, and
should not go higher if fee-based HMI delivery is to develop into a reasonably mass-scale
service.
57


﻿Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
RESULTS OF
THE NATIONAL HYDROMET MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN # 4769 RU)
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
The main objectives of the Project are as follows: (i) Improve Roshydromet capacities for
and ensure efficient and timely rendering of hydrometeorological services to the
Government of the Russian Federation and the public, and (ii) reduce risks of unfavorable
hydrometeorological events for the human health and the economy.
These initial objectives of the Projects were never revised throughout the implementation
process.
Project success indicators:
o  Accuracy and spatial resolution parameters of weather forecasts
o  Improved data transmission inside and out of the Roshydromet network
o  Improved access to Roshydromet archive data
o  Improved density of observation networks
o  Better lead-time of emergency warnings with the aim of reducing damages
from unfavorable and dangerous weather events
o  Transfer to an improved concept of Roshydromet activities
The Project implementation comprised the following four components.
1.1. Component A - Modernization of Computing, Archiving and
Telecommunication Facilities
The objective of the component is to extend computer facilities of the Roshydromet and
to modernize its data receipt, transmission and archiving facilities.
The component includes the following 7 subcomponents:
o  Modernization of Computer Centers, such as the World Meteorological Center
(WMC) in Moscow, Regional Meteorological Centers (RMC) in Novosibirsk and
Khabarovsk, and the World Radiation Data Center (WRDC) in the Main
Geophysical Observatory (GGO) in St.-Petersburg
o  -Building of a distributed complex of detailed visualization of the Roshydromet
o  -Modernization of the World Data Center (WDC) in the VNIIGMI-WDC in
Obninsk
o  Modernization of the communication and data transmission system
o  Renovation and preparation of space
o  Training
o  Porting of software
58


﻿1.2. Component B - Upgrading of Observation Networks
The objective of the component is to upgrade key components of the Roshydromet
meteorological and hydrologic observation networks.
The component included the following 5 subcomponents:
o Upgrading of the surface network of meteorological stations
o Upgrading of the aerologic network
o Upgrading of weather radars and storm lightning detectors
o Upgrading of selected regional hydrometeorological centers
o Upgrading of the hydrologic network
In connection with Directive # 1067-pc of the Government of the Russian Federation of
August 18, 2007 "On Approving the Concept of the Federal Targeted Program for
Geophysical Monitoring" that provided for significant funds to upgrade and further
develop the system of meteorological radar observations, subcomponent B3 "Upgrading
of Meteorological Radars and Storm Lightning Detectors" was excluded from the Project
Procurement Plan.
1.3.  Component C - Institutional Strengthening of the Roshydromet,
Improvement in Information Dissemination and Emergency Preparedness
The objective of the component is to develop and implement activities aimed at
institutional strengthening of the Roshydromet and ensuring stage-by-stage, sustainable
changes in the frameworks of the Russian administrative reform and with regard to
international experience, and to improve the emergency warning system, as well as forms
and methods of data provision to users.
The component included the following 3 subcomponents:
o Institutional strengthening
o Building a client service system
o Improving emergency preparedness and response
1.4.  Component D - Project Management, Monitoring and Appraisal
The component included services of the Design Integrator related to Project integration
and monitoring; procurement of consulting services of Project annual audits; as well as
PIU operational costs and equipment procurement for PIU. The Project Procurement Plan
for 2011-2012 included preparation activities of the National Hydromet Modernization
Project-2.
59


﻿2. CHANGES IN THE PROJECT STRUCTURE AND FINANCING
ARRANGEMENTS
2.1. Project Financing
Initially, the total agreed Project expenses amounted to US$133.3 million, including
contingencies, duties and taxes. Out of the sum, US$80 million was granted as the Loan,
and the remaining US$53.3 million was co-financing by the Russian Federation, to make
the proportion of 60 percent to 40 percent, respectively. In this arrangement, the expenses
of the Russian party included payments of all the taxes and duties applicable in the
territory of the Russian Federation. In 2009, the proportion of Project financing was
reviewed to relate as: 40 percent out of Loan proceeds and 60 percent of the Russian co-
financing as applied to the unexpended balance of Loan proceeds as of that period. As a
result, the co-financing amount of the Russian Federation grew up to US$99 million, and
the total Project price amounted to US$178.9 million.
2.2. Amendments to the Loan Agreement
During the Project, several amendments were made to the Loan Agreement related to
extending the Project implementation period, clarifying Project development areas, re-
stating Loan proceeds from one category to another, and increasing co-financing.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement of September 13, 2007 provided for re-distributing
funds between the Goods, Works and Consulting Services categories and were caused by
the need to optimize the Project budget.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement of September 4, 2008 were also to re-distribute
funds between the Goods, Works, Consulting Services and Training categories and the
Capacity Building Fund. The main aim of the amendments was to concentrate funds for
modernizing the meteorological observation network at the expense of suspending other
Project activities.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement of May 1, 2009 provided for additional fund
allocation from the Federal Budget of the Russian Federation to ensure financing of the
planned work program of the Project under the effective Loan Agreement in full and
within the period stipulated in the Agreement. As a result of the Roshydromet's
application of May 2009, the Ministry of Finance of Russia and the World Bank
considered and approved amendments to the Loan Agreement stipulating for re-
proportioning the Project financing to 40 percent out of Loan proceeds and 60 percent out
of co-financing of the Russian Federation as to the unexpended balance of Loan proceeds
as of May 1, 2009.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement of June 20, 2010 provided for extending the Project
up to October 2011 with the aim of further implementation of activities that were
stipulated in the Loan Agreement but suspended due to stopped financing until 2009
when the Project co-financing share out of the budget of the Russian Federation was
increased.
60


﻿Amendments to the Loan Agreement of July 18, 2011 provided for extending the Project
implementation period to August 31, 2012 with the aim of preparing the National
Hydromet Modernization Project-2 to continue the implemented Project.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement of July 16, 2012 provided for extending the Project
implementation period due to the need to further elaborate activities related to preparation
of Project-2 to be financed out of Project funds and to perform activities for launching the
Project-2, including preparation of Bidding Documents for procurement of goods and
services of primary packages of the Procurement Plan of the new Project and agreement
with the IBRD.
3. PROJECT RESULTS
The main Project results are discussed below.
3.1.  Component A - Modernization of Computing, Archiving and
Telecommunication Facilities
When implemented, Component A resulted in enhanced forecasting quality of main
meteorological fields and use of forecasting models with far better spatial resolution
parameters; started organization of situation centers in Roshydromet UGMS/TsGMS to
be involved in emergencies as part of aftermath liquidation bodies; built up-to-date
computerized data archive, reduced average processing time of users' requests to the
archive from 7-10 days (before the Project) to 12 hours. The outcomes include the fact
that ninety two Roshydromet institutions were connected to digital communication
channels with significantly improved channel capacity. As a result of the Project, the
number of stations timely transmitting data to the global telecommunication network
(GTN) grew from 87 percent (in the beginning of the Project) to 97.3 percent (in the end)
enabling a significant increase in annual data volumes sent and received in the Moscow
WMC; and the technological infrastructure was modernized in the WMC in Moscow,
RSMCs in Khabarovsk and Novosibirsk, the GGO named after A.I. Voeikov in St.-
Petersburg, and the VNIIGMI-WDC in Obninsk.
3.2.  Component B - Upgrading of Observation Networks
As a result of Component B, all the working meteorological stations (1628 stations) were
upgraded. The share of automated and semi-automated observation points in the surface
meteorological observation network increased from 20 percent in the beginning of the
Project to 85 percent in the end.
The share of aerologic stations satisfying the WMO requirements reached the check-point
of 64 percent of the total working stations (with the initial figure of 5 percent).
As a result of modernization activities of the hydrological network, the lead-time of
hydrological forecasts in three priority river basins (Kuban, Ussuri, and Oka) grew to 4.1
hours; and the final parameter is now 3-6 hours for flash floods in mouth reaches of the
61


﻿priority rivers (with the initial figure of 30 minutes).
Activities for improving metrological support, including modernization of the reference
and calibration instrument base of the GGI, commissioning of the modern reference
system for calibration and verification of acoustic profilers, supply of stationary and
mobile calibration laboratories enhanced the metrological base of the Roshydromet.
UGMS/TsGMS were modernized; 12 satellite data receipt stations and 23 meteorological
data visualization system sets were supplied.
Equipment was supplied for hydrological forecasting, operational archiving and
monitoring of atmospheric pollution. The listed activities enabled specialists of
Roshydromet operational forecasting units to get larger data volumes of higher quality.
3.3.  Component C - Institutional Strengthening of the Roshydromet,
Improvement in Information Dissemination and Emergency Preparedness
When implemented, Project Component C resulted in the following outcomes: developed
and approved (by Government Resolution of the Russian Federation # 1458-p of
03.09.2010) "Strategy of Activities in Hydrometeorology and Related Areas till 2030
(with Regard to Climate Change Aspects)"; enhanced efficiency of Roshydromet
management activities due to automation of management processes in various areas;
assistance in methodological support and in development of management principles for
modernization of observation networks.
The number of qualified candidates to Roshydromet specialist positions grew by 34
percent as compared to 2004.
The average lead-time of storm warnings grew (compared to initial figures) from 30 to 60
minutes for flash floods and from 1 to 1.5 hours for strong storms.
A distant training system is built on the basis of 1 central and 5 regional centers; and it
should bring about an increase in the number of Roshydromet specialists who receive not
just knowledge but practical work skills with advanced equipment and technologies.
A clear justification of Roshydromet financial-economic activities is elaborated.
The methodology of deploying a national monitoring system as part of the meteorological
service system of users of hydrometeorological information was developed and tested for
the first time in the Russian Federation.
A poll was held in 8 federal districts comprising 54 Russian Federation constituent
subjects, in responsibility zones of 22 UGMS / SI UGMS to find out user appraisal of
services rendered by Roshydromet organizations and institutions on the basis of
established monitoring parameters and indicators with regard to Project implementation
62


﻿objectives, and demand dynamics for HMI. As a result of all the research stages average
stable positive appraisals of user satisfaction were registered in all user groups with HMI
quality, with a rising trend.
3.4.  Component D - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
As subcomponents 1-4 of Project Component D, project management as a whole was
carried out, technical assistance was provided in such areas as Project administration,
supervision of equipment installation progress, procurement organization and financial
management; the main efforts of the Design Integrator were focused on developing
working documents, clarifying and elaborating technical requirements for equipment to
be procured with the aim of technical and information compatibility of all the
Roshydromet system components, participating in tests of new imported equipment and
in monitoring and evaluating the efficiency of Project implementation activities; annual
audits of Project funds expenditure were held.
Under subcomponent 5 of Component D, activities were performed to prepare the
National Hydromet Modernization Project-2.
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT TARGETS
To assess how Project targets were achieved, 17 parameters were used.
I.    Increased lead-time of national and regional weather forecasts.
1. Global forecast with probability <0.6.
Initially, forecasts of the mentioned probability had the following lead-times:
- In the middle troposphere (H500) - 120 hours
- In the lower atmosphere (MSLP) - 72 hours
Target parameters:
- In the middle troposphere (H500) - 144 hours
- In the lower atmosphere (MSLP) - 120 hours
The Project objective is achieved.
2. Anomaly correlation of the global forecast with probability >= 0.9.
Initially, anomaly correlations with the mentioned probability were as follows:
- In the middle troposphere (H500) - 60 hours
- In the lower atmosphere (MSLP) - 48 hours
Target parameters:
- In the middle troposphere (H500) - 96 hours
- In the lower atmosphere (MSLP) - 72 hours
The Project objective is achieved.
63


﻿3. The probability of regional forecasts in Novosibirsk and Khabarovsk achieved
0.7, with the anomaly correlation >= 0.9.
Initially, the lead-time in the lower layer (MSLP) with the mentioned probability
figures was 24 hours.
Target parameter: 36 hours
The Project objective is achieved.
II. Component A:    Computer centers develop operational forecasts with
higher spatial resolution and using the ensemble method.
4. For operational forecasts, the resolution of T170L31 or a higher parameter
is used.
At the start of the Project, computer centers did not use the mentioned resolution
figure, as the calculation time was not commensurable with the resulting forecast.
Target parameter: calculation time 6 minutes / day
As the Project was implemented, the calculation time became 3 minutes/day
The Project objective is achieved. The target is surpassed.
5. The ensemble forecasting method is used for developing annual global
forecasts.
It was not used as the Project started.
Target parameter: annually.
As a result of the Project, the Federal State Budgetary Institution "Hydrometeorological
Center of Russia" uses a new version of the global ensemble weather forecasting method
REP (P3I). It enabled significant quality enhancement of forecasting for the period up to
10 days.
In 2005, the accuracy of forecasts by administrative center of constituent subjects of the
Russian Federation was as follows:
- 1st day - 83-85 percent
-2nd day - 78-81 percent
- 3rd day - 73-77 percent
In 2011, accuracy of forecasts was as follows:
- 1st day - 92 percent;
- 2d day - 89-90 percent;
- 3rd day - 86-87 percent.
The Project objective is achieved.
III. Component A: There are no bottlenecks in the Roshydromet system to
hinder collection and exchange of data and processed information in the
Russian territory and out of it.
64


﻿6. Stations transmitting data to the WMO achieved the timeliness target of
data transmission to the GTN.
Initially, 87 percent of stations submitting data to the WMO transmitted data to
the GTN in time.
Target parameter: 97 percent of stations submitting data to the WMO transmit
data to the GTN in time.
As a result of the Project, 97.2 percent of stations submitting data to the WMO
transmit data to the GTN in time.
The Project objective is achieved. The target is surpassed.
7. Growth of the data volume received and sent by the Moscow WMC from
all sources.
In the beginning of the Project, 50 Mbyte / 240 Mbyte was sent/received in the
WMC every day.
Target parameter: 150 Mbyte / 5000 Mbyte sent/received daily.
The Project objective is achieved.
IV. Component A: Reduced provision time of archive data on request.
8. Reduced response time of the Archive to a request for data from any point
in the Russian Federation.
The initial standard response time was 14 days to an average request to the WMC
in Obninsk.
Target parameter: the average response time to requests to the WMC in Obninsk
is reduced twice.
After Project completion, the average response time to a request to the WMC in Obninsk
is up to several hours (less than 24 hours) - within one working day, if data of the latest
year is used (after the latest year data is added to the archive, the response time is the
same as for the whole archive). The service is rendered at the file level. The main thing is
that long-term and reliable data storage is ensured.
The Project objective is achieved. The target is surpassed.
V. Component B: Ensured availability and quality of measurement data that
form the basis for forecasting.
9. Increased share of aerologic radar computing complexes that satisfy the
WMO requirements in the aerologic network.
Initial figure: 5 percent (as percentage of the total stations)
Target parameter: 64 percent
The Project objective is achieved.
65


﻿10. Increased share of automated and/or semi-automated observation points.
Initial figure: 20 pieces
Target parameter: 10 percent
After Project completion: 90 percent of the total meteorological stations
The Project objective is achieved. The target is surpassed.
11. Increased lead-time and accuracy of forecasts in pilot river basins.
Initial figure: 30 minutes for flash floods
Target parameter: 1.5 hours
After Project completion: 4-6 hours (mouth reaches)
The Project objective is achieved. The target is surpassed.
VI. Component C: Development and tested new concept of operational
production activities of the Roshydromet.
12. Developed and approved strategic development program of the
Roshydromet.
Target: approval by the Government of the Russian Federation
As a result of the Project, the "Strategy of Activities in Hydrometeorology and
Related Areas till 2030 (with Regard to Climate Change Aspects)" was accepted and
approved by the Government of the Russian Federation on September 3, 2010.
The Project objective is achieved.
13. Growth in the number of qualified candidates to Roshydromet specialist
positions.
In 2004, the number of qualified candidates was 150 people
Target parameter: growth by 15 percent as compared to 2004
After Project completion, the growth amounted to 34 percent as compared to
2004.
The Project objective is achieved. The target is surpassed.
VII. Component C: Improved lead-time of warnings about dangerous
weather events
14. Increased lead-time of warnings about dangerous weather events sent to
local authorities, the Emergencies Ministry, and to the mass media.
Initially, the average lead-time was 30 minutes for flash floods and 1 hour for
strong storms.
Target parameters: on the average, 60 minutes for the sudden flood and 1.5 hours
for the strong storm.
The Project objective is achieved.
15. Increased lead-time of information provision about dangerous weather
events to the public.
Initially, the average lead-time was 45 minutes for flash floods and 1.3 hours for
strong storms.
66


﻿Target parameter: on the average, 70 minutes for the sudden flood and 1.75 hours
for the strong storm.
The Project objective is achieved.
16. Development, approval and regular use of data about total economic
damages prevented due to services rendered by the Roshydromet.
Before the Project, no systematic analysis was performed.
Target: such analysis implemented into Roshydromet practices as the main
parameter of work efficiency.
After the Project, a basic methodology is approved and is used by Roshydromet
organizations for developing regular reports on assessed total damages prevented due to
services rendered by the Roshydromet (such reports are submitted on the quarterly basis
for consideration at meetings of the Roshydromet Board).
The Project objective is achieved.
17. Accuracy of forecasts of dangerous meteorological events.
Initial figure: 85.5 percent (the number of dangerous meteorological events that
were announced in storm warnings multiplied by 100 percent and divided by the number
of dangerous meteorological events that actually took place).
Target parameter: 96 percent.
The Project objective is achieved.
Project objectives are achieved, with certain targets surpassed.
6. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL VALUATION OF INVESTMENTS
Calculations of economic efficiency were made for 2006-2018. This is explained by the
assumption that the economic effect will be maintained both during the Project
implementation period (2006-2011) and within seven years after it is completed (2012-
2018).
On the whole, the net discounted income for 2006-2011 is calculated as 40 billion 860
million rubles. This testifies to the fact that over the mentioned period of the Project, the
investment payback was 189 percent.
The total income over 2012-2018 was 23 billion 100 million rubles. Thus, the aggregate
income over the period under review was 63 billion 960 million rubles. This means that
the profitability index of the Project discounted investments (to characterize efficiency of
capital investments) is 4.0 at the discount rate of 12 percent, 4.3 at the discount rate of 10
percent, and 4.6 percent at the discount rate of 8 percent.
The Project Appraisal Document mentioned that the economic expediency of the Project
(at project costs of about US$110 million) was 1:4.5 - 1:10. In other words, each dollar
channeled to Roshydromet modernization, shall bring 5-10 dollars of benefits to the
Russian economy in terms of prevented damages. With regard to the fact that the total
Project price was US$179 million with the profitability 4.0, we can state that the Project
objective is achieved.
67


﻿7. COLLABORATION OF THE WORLD BANK AND THE BORROWER
5.1. IBRD Contribution
The work of the World Bank related to Project planning and progress control can be
found satisfactory. The Bank team responded promptly to all the required changes caused
by changed social-economic situation and policies; that, in its turn, enhanced efficiency
of Project funds usage and retained the main Project objectives unaltered, at the same
time. Bank's strict control of the Project progress ensured compliance with the provisions
of the Loan Agreement and Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Cooperation with the
Moscow Mission of the World Bank was fruitful and helped solve emerging problems,
and thus contributed to the success of the Project.
5.2. Borrower / Project Implementation Unit
To control Project implementation progress and ensure operational agreement of Project
management issues, the Project Management Committee was formed of representatives
of Project agencies.
All the financial and organizational decisions under the Project were taken by the
Roshydromet together with the BEA Foundation and on agreement with other
participating agencies within their competencies, and were approved by the Project
Management Committee. Over the whole Project implementation period, 121 PMC
meeting were held.
To ensure a proper level of Project management, the BEA Foundation developed the
Project Operational Manual to comprise the basic instructive and directive documents
related to the following activities: Project management regulations and procedures,
procurement, financial management system, staff management, etc. The established
internal financial-management information system ensured efficient control of the Project
progress, including performance of the Procurement Plan and efficient maintenance of
accounting documents and accounts. Over the Project implementation period, the
database of consulting firms, suppliers of goods and software, and individual consultants
who were involved in competitive biddings was updated.
The BEA Foundation developed all the planned Project reports of descriptive nature and
financial data timely and promptly, and submitted them to the Roshydromet, the Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation, and to
the World Bank to enable operational monitoring of the Project progress by all the
interested parties.
8. SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT RESULTS
Sustainability of Project results is supported by federal budget expenses on maintenance
of the equipment supplied under the Project and by use of off-budget funds received from
hydrometeorological services rendered to economic industries on the commercial basis.
The main sustainability factor of Project results is the adopted "Strategy of Activities in
Hydrometeorology and Related Ares till 2030 (with regard to climate change aspects)"
approved by Directive of the Government of the Russian Federation # 1458-p of
68


﻿September 3, 2010.
Sustainability of Project results is also supported by Roshydromet's participation in a
number of federal targeted programs (FTP) that provide for investments in maintenance
and further development of the Roshydromet infrastructure:
1. FTP "Reducing Risks and Mitigating Consequences of Natural and Man-
Caused Emergencies in the Russian Federation till 2010"
2. FTP "Social-Economic Development of the Chechen Republic for 2008-2011";
3. FTP "Modernization of the Unified System for Air Traffic Management of the
Russian Federation (2009 - 2015)", subprogram "Development of Meteorological
Support of Air Navigation"
4. FTP "Dwelling"
5. FTP "Building and Development of the Geophysical Situation Monitoring
System over the Territory of the Russian Federation for 2008-2015"
6. FTP "Development of the Water Management Complex of the Russian
Federation in 2012-2020"
With regard to generally positive implementation results, the Concept of the National
Hydromet Modernization Project-2 (Project-2) was developed under the Project and
agreed with the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of Economic Development, and approved by the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development. At the final stage of the Project, activities were implemented to
prepare Project-2, the main technical solutions were formed for further development of
all the Roshydromet systems, and required documents were prepared to ensure
commencement of Project-2. In May 2013, negotiations were held with IBRD
representatives about a loan to the Russian Federation for implementation of Project-2.
If all the required loan granting procedures are completed successfully, Project-2 is to be
the most significant sustainability factor of the completed Project, as it will directly
continue it and enable strengthening of its results and further modernization of the
Roshydromet.
Established regional training centers (RTC) in such cities as Moscow, St.-Petersburg,
Rostov-upon-Don, Novosibirsk, Irkutsk, and Vladivostok, and the implemented distant
training system (DTS) have a significant influence on the sustainability of the Project
results, including the financial aspect in terms of reduced traveling expenses. Due to
those activities, expenses related to staff training and development will reduce 3-4 times.
It is planned that about 3000 people will be able to improve their qualifications every
year. In 2012, 362 specialists were trained.
On the staff training side, another important activity serves to enhance sustainability of
the Project results, such as modem hydrometeorological equipment as part of training
aids and test benches supplied under the Project to subordinate educational
establishments of secondary vocational training, the Russian State Hydrometeorological
University, and to specialized departments in universities that train specialists in the area.
Situation centers that were implemented into the Roshydromet structure in the Central
69


﻿Administration and regional centers also had a significant influence on the sustainability
of Project results, as they enabled a new quality level in interaction with authorities and
the Emergencies Ministry under emergencies.
With regard to the above-said, we can make a conclusion about high sustainability of
Project results.
9. LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT
When developing and assessing the Project, we underestimated uncertainties and risks
related to its long implementation period, sophisticated nature and scale. During the
Project preparation and implementation period, various processes took place to have a
significant impact on the Project progress. First of all, those were external factors
influencing the price of equipment and measuring instruments to be supplied. In
particular, such factors include inflation and the strengthening Russian ruble as to the
US dollar. On the other hand, detailed elaboration of technical solutions and
insufficient estimated budgets of lots brought about changes in priorities and technical
solutions to take into account developments that took place during the Project.
Detailed elaboration of technical solutions for some Project areas and development of
resulting terms of reference demonstrates that it is necessary to have reserves of funds
for incidental expenses in such integrated and wide-scale projects. Implementation of
such significant and sophisticated Project areas as upgrading of the meteorological
observation network, building the hydrological monitoring system in priority basins,
modernization of the telecommunication and data transmission system and additional
elaboration of technical solutions for outfitting Roshydromet training centers and the
ADMS building, etc. can be examples of lots where budget estimates were evidently
insufficient.
More detailed elaboration of technical solution at the preparation stage in such large
projects is needed. Development of technical requirements and terms of reference in
IBRD formats made authors study the subject in-depth and consider all the aspects
related to equipment supply, service rendering, site preparation, and staff training.
Beside, positive experience of preparing and implementing competitive selection
procedures of suppliers of goods and services had a favorable impact on the
organization and administration of competitive selection procedures performed by
UGMS/TsGMS locally.
Project preparation and implementation demonstrated a need of integrated approach to
planning and performing preparatory activities underlying contract supplies. The thing
is that in case of wide-scale implementation of technical facilities designed for solving
various technological tasks, a system of activities is required related to planning (at all
the management levels) a set of methodical, metrological, service, HR, business and
management activities aimed at achieving reliable operation of new equipment and the
system as a whole. Gaps and errors in some technological links can lead to failure of
the main goal.
70


﻿When implementing a set of methodical, metrological, service, HR, business and
management activities aimed at achieving established objectives, primary attention
shall be paid to staff members who operate or support operation of systems and
equipment to be implemented. (Such are system problems of government structures:
inadequate new staff requirements for employees of Roshydromet institutions and
organizations who service modem equipment and a poor labor remuneration system.)
Modern technical facilities and implemented technologies that are mainly based on
achievements in electronics and information technologies require a corresponding staff
development level. So the problem of staff adjustment to changed labor conditions and
workload and of qualified staff retention is evident. Our experience in implementing
some Project contracts showed that not just professional development is needed, but
practical re-training. At the same time, a disproportion emerged between qualification
requirements for staff and the salary level. The Roshydromet took steps to review its
list of staff positions to be involved in servicing new technical facilities and in
replacing positions under the new professional training system; however, the problem
of retaining qualified staff members (especially those who were re-trained for
operation of computer complexes, telecommunication equipment) is still on.
In previous years, when selecting technical solutions for computer equipment to be
supplied (from WMC and VNIIGMI-WDC to SI UGMS/TsGMS) we used to consider
such characteristics as high performance rates, random access memory sizes, etc. first
of all. During the Project, we considered acceptability of this or that technical solution
for computer equipment primarily in terms of how efficiently they would solve
specific tasks characteristic of this or that Roshydromet unit (MCC, VNIIGMI-WDC,
RSMC, MRMC, TsGMS-R, etc.).
A new approach is required to the technical support system of installed equipment.
Equipment that is operated in the Roshydromet observation network, organizations and
institutions is generally obsolete and phased-out. UGMS/TsGMS staff used to repair it
out of their own good will. In some UGMS the measurement tool service had
practically stopped to exist. We need to transfer from individual UGMS/TsGMS
maintenance efforts to a technical support system based on established service centers.
The Project enabled us to develop and implement practices of wide-scale
targeted/project financing for integrated solution of sophisticated modernization
problems of the hydrometeorological service. There is a need of further
implementation of such practices in the frameworks of a long-term strategy, with
special attention to achieving stable results (complete resource security of the main
agreed parameters of operating activities).
71


﻿Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* National Hydromet Modernization Project Appraisal Document, February 16,
2005
* Aide Memoires and ISRs
* Borrower's Draft Completion Report
* Hallegate, S. (2012), A Cost Effective Solution to Reduce Disaster Losses in
Developing Countries: Hydro-Meteorological Services, Early Warning, and
Evacuation, World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 6058, Washington:
DC.
*  Lazo, J. K., R. E. Morss, and J. L. Demuth (2009), 300 Billion Served: Sources,
Perceptions, Uses, and Values of Weather Forecasts. Bulletin of the American
Meteorological Society. 90(6): 785-798.
*  Oganesyan, V. (2012), Value of Economic Losses in Sectors. Consultant report
for Roshydromet.
*  Roshydromet (2010), Monitoring of Clients' Evaluation of RHM  Services:
Implementation of Monitoring System, Contract RHM/3/C.2.h.ii, Summary
findings and data.
*  Roshydromet (2012), Assessing the economic benefits of the project:
"Modernization and Hydromet-2", Consultants' economic analysis report.
*  Tsirkunov, V., M. Smetanina, A. Korshunov, and S. Ulatov (2008), Economic
Assessment of the Benefits of NMHS Modernization: Sector-Specific
Methodology and Benchmarking Methodology. Background Paper for RHM-1
(Annex 4.1).
*  World Bank (2008), Weather and Climate Services in Europe and Central Asia: A
Regional Review, World Bank Working Paper No. 151, Washington: DC.
*  World Bank (2012), World Development Indicators, World Bank, Washington:
DC.
72


