Document of
The WVorld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2223b-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARTISANS, SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE (CCI)
IVORY COAST
February 12, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September, 1978)
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with respect
to the French Franc (1 FF = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the
US dollar. In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$1 = CFAF 220
ABBREVIATIONS
AFCOPA    Association Francaise de Formation, Cooperation, Promotion
et Animation d'Entreprises
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDI       Bureau de Developpement Industriel
BIDI      Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
BNDA      Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
BNEC      Banque Nationale pour 1'Epargne et le Credit
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI       Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
CIFIM     Compagnie Ivoirienne de Financement Immobilier
CSPPA     Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles
DDI       Departement de Developpement Industriel
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FGCEI     Fonds de Garantie des Credits aux Entreprises Ivoiriennes
OPEI      Office National pour la Promotion des Entreprises Ivoirienes
SONAFI    Societe Nationale de Financement
SSE       Small-Scale Enterprise
SME       Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UMOA      Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine
UNIDO     UJnited Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID     US Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
CCI: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE (CCI)
ARTISANS, SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
IVORY COAST
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE SETTING ............... ...................................                       1
The Economy               ................................................         1
The Industrial Sector ......                                   . .......   2
The Financial Sector .. . .                                 . ........   7
II. THE INSTITUTION ..................................                                   11
Ownership            ..................................................           11
Organization, Management and Staff ....                .....................      11
Operations and Financial Performance ....                 ...................     14
III. THE PROJECT ..................................................                       16
Concept and Objectives ...               ..................................      16
Description and Main Features  ...................             .. .........       17
Financing Plan .............................................                     19
Organization and Implementation ............................                     21
Benefits and Justification .................................                     22
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS  ..............................................                      23
This report is based on the results of a mission to Ivory Coast in May 1978,
consisting of Robert E. Hindle and Michel Beguery.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I         CCI - Assumpt'ions for Financial Forecasts
Annex II       CCI - Income Statement
Annex III       CCI - Balance Sheets
Annex IV        CCI - Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
Annex V         CCI - Arrears Position
Annex VI        CCI - Organization Chart
Annex VII       CCI - Extract:s of Policy Statement
Annex VIII      Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex IX        Selected Documents Available in Project File






IVORY COAST
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI)
Basic Data
Exchange Rate (9/78):         US$1 = CFAF 220
Year of Establishment:        1955
Authorized Capital:           (As of September 30, 1978)        CFAF 2 billion
Ownership:
Paid in Capital
CFAF Million         %
Government of Ivory Coast                   1,634            81.6
BCEAO                                         183             9.2
CCCE                                          183             9.2
2,000           100.0
Resource Position:            (As of September 30, 1977)
CFAF Million
Local         Foreign        Total
Paid in Share Capital              2,000                        2,000
Reserves                           2,839             -           2,839
Subtotal                         4,839            -           4,839
Borrowings Outstanding
Government                       9,264            -           9,264
BCEAO                            8,016            -           8,016
CCCE                               -            2,888         2,888
Other                            1,266            402         1,668
18,546          3,290        21,836
Total Resources                   23,385          3,290        26.675



- ii -
CFAF Million
Local         Foreign        Total
irivestments and Commitments
Net Fixed Assets                  293            -             293
Loans Outstanding              21,501          3,290        24,791
Equity (Net)                      287            -             287
Subtotal                    22,081           3,290        25,371
Resource Surplus                   1,304            -           1.304
Undisbursed Commitments                                        14,683
Covered by:
Resource Surplus                                             1,304
Available BCEAO Rediscount                                  10,760
Other lines of credit                                        3,454
15,518
Available for Commitment                                          835
(CFAF Million)
Operations                    1973     1974      1975      1976      1977
Loan/Equity Approvals    5,423    8,107    6,690   11,003   16,044
Earnings
Net Income 1/                135      137        36       249       84
As % of Average Networth   6.1        6.2       1.5       8.1       2.2
Financial Position
Net Worth                 2,150    2,283    2,492    3,668    4,107
Total Assets              10,780   13,680   16,524   22,149   27,597
Debt/Equity Ratio          3.9:1    4.9:1    5.6:1    5.1:1    5.1:1
Interest Rates and other Charges
Interest Rates: 8.5% to 12.5%
Commitment Charge: 3/4 of 1% on undrawn balance
1/   Includes transfers to general reserves.



- iii -
Basic Data on Previous Bank Loans (as of January 24, 1979)
Loan
1124-IVC             1162-IVC
Purpose                               Hotels               SME
Amount                                $9.7 million         $5.6 million
Rate of Interest                      8.5%                 8.5%
Date of Approval                      May 27, 1975         August 21, 1975
Date of Effectiveness                 January 18, 1976    February 2, 1976
Free Limit                            $500,000             $45,000
Amount Committed                      $6.8 million         $3.0 million
Amount Disbursed                      $2.7 million         $1.0 million
*






I. THE SETTING
A.   The Economy
1.01      Few countries can match I[vory Coast's economic performance over
the past twenty-five years. Real growth has averaged 7% per annum over the
period, a unique record on the African continent. The performance is all
the more impressive as, until the recent discovery of offshore petroleum
deposits, there has been no mining activity to speak of and growth has been
fueled by extensive agricultural exports, particularly of coffee, cocoa and
timber, but also including fruits, vegetables, palm oil and rubber. Per
capita income in the Ivory Coast rose from $145 at independence in 1960 to
$710 in 1977. The current population of the Ivory Coast is estimated at
7.3 million with an annual rate of growth (including immigration) of 4.0%.
Recent economic developments are described in the Bank's latest economic
report for Ivory Coast, dated February, 1977. 1/
1.02      The Government of the Ivory Coast has followed a liberal and prag-
matic policy toward foreign workers and capital and the economy remains
resolutely open. The positive results of this policy have been enhanced by
high world prices for its agricultural commodities and the country's poli-
tical stability. Certain constraints resulting from past policies are,
however, now becoming apparent as questions of extensive reliance on expa-
triate experts, inequitable income distribution and rapidly rising external
debt are taking on increased importance. Despite these constraints there
remains an impressive potential for further growth in the Ivory Coast if
prudent decisions are taken on future diversification of agriculture and
concentration on immediately productive investment. In particular, in indus-
try a shift of emphasis from import substitution to export oriented pro-
cessing of locally produced raw materials is warranted, as is a policy of
employment creation through concentration on small- and medium-scale indus-
tries.
1.03      As illustrated in the following table, the economic structure of
the Ivory Coast has not altered significantly from 1972 to 1978. The
balance of agriculture vis-a-vis the rest of the sectors has remained re-
markably stable, and the share of manufacturing constant since the beginning
of the seventies.
1/   Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report, Main Report, Number 1147b-IVC,
dated February, 1977.



Table 1.1: GDP AT CURRENT PRICES (%)
(Projected)
1972     1974      1976      1978
Agriculture                            26        26        25        22
Manufacturing and Construction /1    22          21        20        21
(Manufacturing)                     (15)      (15)     (13)        -
(Construction)                       (7)       (5)      (6)        _
(Other)                              (-)       (1)      (1)        -
Services /2                            41        43        45       48
(Transportation)                     (9)       (9)      (8)        -
Government and Other                   10        10        10         9
100      100       100       100
/1   Includes artisanal firms.
/2   Includes profits of CSSPA.
B.   The Industrial Sector
1.04      In the first 15 years after independence manufacturing developed
rapidly at an annual rate in real terms of about 15%. Manufacturing indus-
try's share in GDP rose from 4% in 1960 to about 15% in 1974, and (based on
a new statistical series of national accounts introduced in 1975) 13% in
1976.  Owing to the rapid rise in agricultural income between 1975 and 1978
based on higher international prices for coffee and cocoa, the share of manu-
facturing in GDP has probably not expanded since 1976 and may even have
dropped marginally. Moreover, it is clear that most of the apparent import
substitution investment opportunities have been taken up, and it will be
necessary in the future to shift increasingly to investment in export oriented
firms. Nevertheless, assuming global figures are not skewed by high agricul-
tural prices, it is likely that over the next five years industry's relative
share of GDP should grow according to past trends. Over the recent past the
most dynamic industrial subsectors have been production of construction mate-
rials (40% annual growth rate), textiles and shoes (30%) and metal, mechanical
and electrical industries (26%).
1.05      Ivory Coast's industrial sector includes three components:  (1) a
relatively small number of large, mostly foreign owned and managed firms;
(2) a larger number of medium and small size modern sector firms which are
increasingly Ivorian owned; and (3) a large, but uncounted, number of infor-
mal sector firms which are exclusively Ivorian or African owned. Available
data for the sector reflect mostly developments among firms in the first



- 3 -
category and to some extent in thet second category, although as a result of
a first IBRD-SME project and recent studies conducted by the government,
knowledge of the latter two groups; is expanding.
1.06      Commonly agreed definitions distinguishing precisely Ivorian large,
medium and small firms do not exist, nor is there a clear dividing line
between modern sector firms and traditional artisans. The 1976 national
accounts cover 1,790 firms including a few artisanal units. Of the firms
surveyed about 85% have total assets under CFAF 75 million and fewer than
50 employees. Moreover, among these firms the vast majority has assets under
CFAF 10 million (65%) and fewer than 10 employees (62%). For purposes of
this report the criterion of total. investment will be used to define firms
by type. Large firms will be considered those with total assets above
CFAF 500 million, medium as those between CFAF 75 million and CFAF 499 mil-
lion, small as those under CFAF 75 million. 1/ Informal sector artisans
are those individuals working alone or in cooperatives, who produce tradi-
tional goods for the local market and who are outside the national accounting
system. As in most countries, the artisanal sector is characterized by ease
of entry, reliance on indigenous resources, family ownership, labor intensive
technologies and unregulated markets.
1.07      Small-Scale Enterprises.  At the request of the Bank a study was
carried out in 1976 of the SME sector in Ivory Coast. Thirty-one firms were
surveyed in detail through on site visits and interviews, and data on an
additional 720 were reviewed. It was found that the typical modern sector
SME in Ivory Coast is in an urban area (probably Abidjan), employs fewer
than 10 persons, has been created in the last 10 years and has an annual
turnover of about CFAF 50 million ($225,000). Small-scale firms are heavily
oriented to trade and commerce (72%) and only 18% is involved in manufac-
turing. The remainder (10%) is occupied in the production of raw materials
(logging, quarrying, etc.). In terms of the financial structure of SME,
undercapitalization is common and indebtedness (especially to non-formal
lenders) is high. The study concluded that the important constraints facing
SME include: (1) lack of financial resources; (2) competition from large
and small foreign-managed firms; and (3) inadequate government incentives to
small African enterprises.
1.08      Artisans.  Based on a 1976 study, it appears that 15% to 20% of
firms incorporating themselves in the modern, small scale sector are artisans
whose businesses have prospered, and that roughly 15% of manufacturing output
is from artisans. Cost per job created in the artisanal sector appears to
be one tenth that of the large scale, modern sector. Thus, the impact of
the artisanal sector is of considerable importance, both in terms of develop-
ing new generations of African businessmen and generating employment at a low
cost per job. The important constraints facing artisans are lack of long
and medium term finance, insufficient knowledge of markets, weak management
and competition from larger enterprises. Artisanal output in the Ivory Coast
1/   The Central Bank's definition of small scale industry, includes all
African-owned enterprises with total indebtedness below CFAF 20 million.



-4-
is sold largely to meet local (African) market demand, although a growing
number of cooperatives seek to ensure technical assistance to artisans to
ensure high quality output for sales abroad or to local expatriates.
1.09      Industrial Investment.  Public investment in manufacturing and
industry is clearly secondary to private investment, and in 1976 represented
less than 30% of the capital of modern sector firms. During the last five
year plan (1971-1975) gross public investment in industry and mining amounted
to CFAF 12 billion, or 10% of total industrial investment. Projected public
investment in industry from 1976 to 1980 is CFAF 60 billion, one tenth of
total anticipated industrial investment. Moreover, public resources are
planned to be concentrated in a small number of large enterprises such as a
pulp paper operation and agro-processing.
1.10      Industrial Location.  About two-thirds of Ivorian industry is
concentrated in Abidjan, with another 10% in Ivory Coast's second largest
city, Bouake. Large modern sector firms are especially heavily concentrated
in Abidjan, which, given Abidjan's attractions as a growth pole with good
transportation, public services and a large market, is unsurprising. There
are factors, however, which favor some decentralization. These include the
need to locate raw material processing operations close to the source, the
ongoing investment in improved transportation links, Government's intention
to reach a better geographic distribution of investments by developing San
Pedro as a growth pole and establishing regional industrial estates (para-
graph 1.18). Nevertheless, industrial investment in Abidjan (especially
for export purposes) makes sense and the government has decided to approach
decentralization carefully and not to establish special fiscal incentives
for regional industries.
1.11      Indigenization.  At the beginning of 1975 foreign ownership com-
prised 60% of the equity in manufacturing firms; three quarters of the re-
mainder represented Government equity and one quarter private Ivorian.
Government policy has been to encourage Ivorian participation in both capital
and employment, albeit within the context of a liberal and open economy. The
main vehicles for doing so have been the establishment of a stock exchange
which is restricted to Ivorians, Government equity participation in firms and
the establishment of Societe Nationale de Financement (SONAFI), an equity par-
ticipation fund. Nevertheless, the capital needs of large firms continue to
be met with external private resources and in 1978 over 50% of equity owner-
ship remained foreign.   A similar situation exists in management where,
despite the efforts of government, a substantial proportion (75%) of senior
managers is expatriate.
1.12      Employment. 1/  Ivory Coast has traditionally been a large importer
of industrial workers, including skilled Europeans (estimated at almost 10,000
in 1976, excluding externally funded technical assistance personnel) and un-
skilled workers from neighboring states (70,000 in 1976). Many additional
African expatriates work in the agricultural sector; in 1976 non-Ivorian
1/   Ivory Coast Special Report on Employment.  Report No. 229a-IVC, 3 volumes,
July 31, 1974.



- 5 -
Africans were estimated to make up somewhat under 25% of the total population.
Between 1973 and 1976 industrial employment expanded by an average of slightly
over 10% per year. Nevertheless, industrial employment as a portion of total
modern sector non-agricultural employment remains modest (25%). Data on gross
unemployment are scanty, although it appears that such unemployment as exists
is concentrated in urban areas (particularly Abidjan) and especially among the
semi-skilled. 1/
1.13      As in most West African countries, capital investment per job
created in the modern sector has been high. According to estimates in 1976
by the Government the cost of each new industrial jo' crEateud  n tLhe modern
sector from 1971 to 1975 was $26,000 while the similar figure for the sub-
sequent ten years was projected to be $30,000.  Wide variations by branch and
size were noted, however, with the greatest employment impact coming from
agriculture and small-scale enterprise investment. These conclusions are
consistent with the experience of the first line of credit for small- and
medium-scale firms which created employment at an average cost per job of
$9,300 (considerably below the national average) and by the experience of the
Office National de Promotion des Entreprises Ivoriennes (OPEI) from 1968 to
1977, which had an average cost per job for small firms it promoted (including
services) of about $5,000 per job.
1.14      Industrial Organization.  Policies in the industrial sector are
implemented by the Bureau de Developpement Industriel (BDI) of the Ministry
of Finance, Budget and Plan for promotion, the Direction de Developpement
Industriel (DDI) of the same Ministry for planning, and the Office National
de Promotion des Entreprises Ivoriennes (OPEI) for technical assistance. On
the financial side there is SONAFI, a credit Guarantee Fund, and, of course,
two industrial development banks, Banque Ivorienne de Developpement Industriel
(BIDI) and Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI), both of which have received World
Bank Group support. Specific incentives to small- and medium-scale investors
include the programs of OPEI, loan guarantees, and the BCEAO preferential
interest rate structure (para. 1.22).
1.15      OPEI.  OPEI was created in 1968 as a public enterprise designed
to promote and develop small Ivorian enterprises. OPEI is under the responsi-
bility of the Director of Industrial Development of the Ministry of Finance,
Budget and Plan. Day to day management is handled by a Director General with
the advice of a Government Commissioner. OPEI's operations fall into two
major categories: (1) promotion and follow up of individual enterprises; and
(2) assistance to Ivorian entrepreneurs buying out small expatriate-owned
enterprises. It is, furthermore, intended to make OPEI the implementing orga-
nization for the Industrial Estates Program (para. 1.18). OPEI's Direction
of Operations handles the preparation of SME dossiers and is in charge or
project follow-up. It comprises seven units ("cellules") each specialized in
a field of activity (food, commerce and services, mechanics and garages, wood
1/   A recent ILO study estimates unemployment at 5% in 1970, but makes no
comment on probable changes since then.



- 6 -
industry, textiles and garments, building, and miscellaneous industries). As
of June 1978, OPEI's staff of 158 included 45 Ivorian professionals and 41
expatriate technical assistants.
1.16      Extensive technical assistance has been provided to OPEI, in par-
ticular by FAC (though AFCOPA, a private French organization specialized
in technical and management assistance to small enterprises) and UNIDO, which
since 1974 has financed a major program of technical assistance to the dif-
ferent units of the OPEI's Direction of Operations. The cost of this external
assistance was estimated at CFAF 745 million ($3.3 million) in 1977, of which
about 40% is being paid by French bilateral aid and UNIDO and the rest borne
by the Ivorian Government.
1.17      According to OPEI, over the period 1968-1977 it assisted the
creation or the extension of 321 enterprises (mainly in the service and food
sectors), representing total investments of CFAF 4,677 billion ($19 million)
and resulting in the creation of 3,681 new jobs at an average cost of about
$5,000 per job. In view of the very high cost of operation of OPEI, these
results are nonetheless disappointing. Following the efforts undertaken by
the World Bank in collaboration with UNIDO in the first Bank SME project,
OPEI's recent performance has improved. Internal procedures have been
streamlined, staffing of the operational units has been completed and the
output of small scale projects for financing has increased dramatically.
Efficiency, however, remains a serious problem and technical assistance costs
remain high in relation to the number of small scale enterprises promoted.
1.18      Industrial Estates. In order to promote the regional development
of small- and medium-scale enterprises, the Ivorian Government has decided to
create eleven industrial estates in each of the major districts of the Ivory
Coast. These estates will provide SME's with common infrastructure and
services and technical assistance which will be provided by OPEI. A regional
development bank, Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD) has agreed
to provide a loan of CFAF 730 million ($3.3 million) for this program which
will be managed by a special department to be created in OPEI. Regional
offices of OPEI will be established in each industrial estate. The invest-
ments of SMEs settling on the estates will be eligible for World Bank financing
under the second SME project.
1.19      Prospects and Constraints in the Industrial Sector.  The prospects
for continued dynamism in the industrial sector are good, although there is a
need to focus on such subsectoral objectives as Ivorianization of capital and
management, employment generation and development of export oriented indus-
tries. The constraint will be to make these adjustments smoothly, without
loss of industrial efficiency and in the context of Ivory Coast's liberal
economic philosophy. Certain steps are already being taken to accomplish
these goals. First, regarding indigenization, the government has restricted
the stock exchange to Ivorian nationals and has reconstituted SONAFI to con-
tinue direct participation in undertakings of national interest. It also
seeks, without establishing explicit quotas, to ensure that private firms
recruit Ivorian counterparts to expatriate managers. Second, the government



- 7-
promotes through OPEI and guarantee and participation funds, smaller enter-
prises in an effort to stimulate employment creation and to support African
entrepreneurs. Finally, the government's direct investments in manufacturing
are increasingly concentrated in those firms such as sugar mills, wood pro-
cessing and canning, which give value added to locally produced raw materials.
C.   The Financial Sector
1.20      Ivory Coast is a member of a regional monetary union, the UMIOA
(Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine) which was established in 1962 and which
includes five other francophone countries (Benin, Niger, Senegal, Togo and
Upper Volta). The union shares a common currency (the CFA franc) which bears
a fixed relationship to the French franc, a common central bank (the Banque
Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest in Dakar) and common credit and mone-
tary po'licies.
1.21      BCEAO Credit Regulations.  Credit policies affecting banks in UMOA
countries were extensively revised in 1975. The objective of these reforms
included, inter alia, a greater national input into credit allocation, greater
incentives to lending for development and a more efficient use of domestic
savings. Control of credit in the Union is exercised by the discounting
mechanism of the BCEAO. All banks (commercial and development) can rediscount
up to 35% of their outstanding portfolio with the Central Bank. In addition,
commercial banks have (under pressure from BCEAO) begun to lend more exten-
sively than heretofore for capital investment in industry. These developments
have put development banks at a competitive disadvantage to commercial banks,
as the latter can attract borrowers by providing a full range of banking
services as well as term credit. As a result, development banks are actively
redefining their strategies to broaden their operations and in the short term
to locate co-financing opportunities with commercial banks.
1.22      Interest Rate Structure.  Consistent with the rigorously controlled
credit allocation system, interest rates are tightly controlled as well.
Rates on loans to borrowers (no matter what the cost or source of resources)
may in no case be higher than 13%, and in the case of certain preferred non-
agricultural borrowers no higher than 8.5%. Preferred borrowers include
majority African owned small-scale enterprises (those with outstanding credit
under CFAF 20 million), short term agricultural borrowers, and African home-
owners borrowing less than CFAF 10 million to construct their principal
residence.



- 8 -
Table 2.1: BCEAO INTEREST RATES
Allowable
Type of Borrower      Discount Rate  (%)      Allowable Spread       Final Rate
Preferential
Agricultural               5.5                   1.0 - 2.0          6.5 - 7.5
SSE                        5.5                   1.0 - 3.0          6.5 - 8.5
Housing                    5.5                   1.0 - 3.0          6.5 - 8.5
Normal                       8.0                      5.0               13.0
In the case of loans to small scale enterprises the central bank in conjunc-
tion with the Government has established an additional interest subsidy fund
which is available to subsidize the cost of high priced international re-
sources flowing to SSEs. Interest paid on saving deposits varies widely from
5.5% to 8.5%. Interest on fixed term, large deposits and on funds obtained
in the money market in Ivory Coast ranges up to 10%.
1.23      Inflation.  Although inflation has not historically been a major
problem within member states of BCEAO, there have been recent sharp increases
in prices in Ivory Coast, owing to reduced output of local foodstuffs and
higher cost imports. For 1977 the BCEAO estimates that the consumer price
index for Ivorian families rose by about 30%, although the global inflation
rate was considerably lower at 13%. For the previous two years inflation
was 8.3% and 9.5% respectively. Based on its policy of constraint of credit
expansion, and the government's decision to reduce the pace of public invest-
ment, the central bank anticipates the rate of inflation to reduce markedly
in 1978 to about 20% for Ivorian families and even lower taking account of
imported goods. Moreover, the long term inflation rate for Ivory Coast is
expected to be comparable to what it was for the last 5 years. The Bank
projects annual inflation rates of 11.0%, 9.0% and 7.0% for the years 1978 to
1980.
1.24      The Banking System.  Banking and credit institutions in Ivory Coast
include four commercial banks, four development banks, branches of foreign
banks and various other institutions operating as leasing corporations, in-
surance companies, etc. In addition there is a public institution, Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) which manages the public debt, holds and
manages public deposits and mobilizes local resources through tax free bond
issues. The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSPPA) is the Government agricultural price stabilization fund.
Another public institution, Societe Nationale de Financement (SONAFI) was set
up in 1962 to take direct equity participation in undertakings of national
interest. In 1972 the Government established within SONAFI an additional
participation fund to make equity available to small-scale Ivorian enterprises.
The Government also established in 1968 a guarantee fund, Fonds de Garantie,
to provide guarantees for credits granted to small Ivorian enterprises.
Finally a stock exchange was established in April 1976. Ivorianization of



-. 9 -
the financial sector is progressing steadily: the Government has a 100%
interest in Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC), 21% in
Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (BIDI), 82% of Credit de la
Cote d'Ivoire (CCI) and 67% in Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
(BNDA). It has participation of between 10% and 33% in three commercial
banks which are largely owned by French banks associated with American,
German and Italian institutions. These banks have either an Ivorian as
General Manager or Deputy and IvoriaLnization of their professional staff is
increasing rapidly. At the end of 1975 local participation in the equity of
commercial and development banks was 54.5%, about one-fifth of it in private
Ivorian hands.
1.25      Specialized Banking.  Ivory Coast has four specialized development
banks, BIDI, BNDA, BNEC and CCI. BIDI, created in 1965 is majority foreign
owned and specializes in financing large scale industrial enterprises. It
received an IBRD loan in 1975 and haLs an IFC participation. BNDA was estab-
lished in 1969 as the agricultural dLevelopment bank in Ivory Coast to provide
agricultural credit and technical assistance to its clients, and to mobilize
rural savings. BNEC, created in 1975, has combined the activities of previous
Government services related to housing, savings and loans and subsidization
of low income housing. BNEC is the intermediary for the low income housing
component of the ongoing IBRD AbidjaLn Urban Development Project. Finally,
CCI is a majority Government owned mtultipurpose development bank which was
created in 1955. CCI is the main provider of long term resources to small-
scale enterprises and is in this respect an important instrument of the
Government Ivorianization policy.
1.26      Guarantee Fund.  A Fonds de Garantie des Credits aux Entreprises
Ivoiriennes (FGCEI) was established in 1968 by the Government to promote the
development of Ivorian enterprises by guaranteeing loans to such enterprises.
The Fund guarantees up to 80% of loaLns to majority Ivorian owned enterprises
in the secondary and tertiary sector although the preponderate amount of
guarantees is in the tertiary sector (70%).  Since inception the Fund has
granted 145 guarantees; its resources come primarily from budgetary allo-
cations, and amount to CFAF 400 million. Since the Fund can guarantee up to
five times its total resoruces its total guarantee capacity is CFAF 2 billion
of which more than three fourths has been used. Approximately 15% of the
portfolio has been written off or is in litigation.
1.27      Prospects in the Financial Sector.  Financial institutions in the
West African Monetary Union are in aL state of transition as adjustments are
made to the 1975 sectoral policy changes. In Ivory Coast, in particular,
financial instituions are moving quickly to respond to increased local com-
petitiveness and the period of adjustment should be smooth. On its part the
Bank is involved in a detailed study of financial flows in Ivory Coast in
order to understand fully the sources and uses of financial resources in the
Ivory Coast. In a similar fashion the Bank has sought to intensify its
relationship with BCEAO with a view to discussing interest rate policy and
joint review of local development banks.



- 10 -
1.28      Performance under Previous Loans.  In July 1975, the Bank made a
loan of $5.6 million to CCI to finance Ivorian small- and medium-scale enter-
prises. At about the same time CCI, which is the designated financier of
hotels, received a Bank loan of $9.7 million for hotel construction. Thlc
first SME project was designed to strengthen CCI as a financial intermediary,
to develop links with local commercial banks, and, of course, to make avail-
able term resources for small Ivorian businessmen. CCI would finance, with
IBRD resources, up to 60% of total investment with an investment ceiling of
CFAF 40 million ($181,000), of Ivorian owned enterprises in preidentified
branches (baking, tailoring, woodworking, garages) with flexibility to
finance viable projects outside these branches. The financing plan was com-
pleted by Ivory Coast's commercial banks which financed 30% of total invest-
ment (for working capital) the balance (10%) being provided by the promoter
himself.  Project promotion and follow-up was provided by OPEI whose activi-
ties were funded by direct budgetary allocations, UNIDO and French bilateral
aid.
1.29      Project implementation suffered from a number of constraints.  Proj-
ect effectiveness was delayed for a year pending resolution of a discrepency
in interest rates between the BCEAO ceiling of 8.5% for small-scale enter-
prises, as defined by the central bank (see para. 1.06), and the negotiated
rate of 12.5%. In the end, the difference between the two is made up by the
Government interest subsidy fund which ensures CCI an adequate spread. Other
constraints which have affected the project's performance have been the slow
rate of project processing by OPEI (which averaged only three projects a
month) and cumbersome procedures to move projects through the stages of
promotion, agreement by OPEI, CCI and commercial banks, and disbursement. In
addition, the 1975 Central Bank reform which put commercial and development
banks on an equal footing has narrowed the scope for cooperation between CCI
and commercial banks and loan processing by the latter has frequently been
slow. Nevertheless, under the first project progress has been made in ex-
panding and strengthening CCI's industrial development role and in providing
integrated financial and technical assistance to Ivorian entrepreneurs.
Coordination among CCI, commercial banks and promoters is now moving rela-
tively smoothly.
1.30      Finally, although no specific target was established in the first
SME Project, the cost per job created is higher than expected at time of
approval ($9,300 average, slightly above the $8,700 anticipated, including
an amount for technical assistance costs). As of January 15, 1979, 62
projects have been accepted with average investments of $100,000 (ranging
from $20,000 to $160,000). At the same date commitments stood at 54%,
but given the projects in CCI and OPEI pipelines, they are expected to reach
80% by February 1979, at which time new loan granting authority will be
required.



- 11 -
II. THE INSTITUTION
A.   Ownership
2.01      CCI is a multipurpose development bank established in 1955 with
French assistance and headquartered in Abidjan. It finances housing, indus-
try, trade, artisans, hotels, consumer durables and automobiles. It provides
short term (up to 2 years), medium term (2-10 years), and long term (over
10 years) loans, equity participation and guarantees to private or public
corporations and individuals.
2.02      Ownership.  CCI's initial share capital of CFAF 200 million was
gradually increased to CFAF 2 billion by May 1975. All capital is fully paid
in. The Government is the major shiareholder (82%). Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE), a public French aid agency, holds 9% and the
Banque Centrale (BCEAO) the remaining 9%. CCI's capital structure has evolved
as follows:
Table 2.1: PAID-IN SHARE CAPITAL
Shareholder                         Original              As of June 30, 1978
CFAF Mil:Lion         %       CFAF Million       %
Government                      100.0             50        1,633.34        81.66
CCCE                            100.0             50          183.33         9.17
BCEAO                             -               -           183.33         9.17
200.0            100       2,000.00        100.00
2.03      Board of Directors.  CCI's Board of Directors meets approximately
six times a year and consists of twelve members, ten Government appointed
officials, one representative of CCCE and one from BCEAO who, since 1975, has
been the Vice Chairman. A loan approval committee, consisting of five members
(the Board Chairman, one representative of BCEAO, one from the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA) and two Government representatives) has been delegated
authority to approve most routine loans and make day to day decisions. In
addition, the Director General of CCI has the authority to approve housing
loans up to CFAF 15 million and loans to enterprises up to CFAF 50 million.
B.   Organization, Management and Staff
2.04      Organization.  CCI's present organization comprises a General Direc-
torate and three major departments (Investment, Finance and Administration).
A Division for Organization and Computing Activities and a Division of
Internal Control are part of the Director General's office. Project promotion,
appraisal and supervision are handled by the Investment Department which is
also in charge of arrears collection. CCI currently has five branch offices



- 12 -
in Bouake, Korhogo, Abengourou, Daloa and Man. CCI's organization chart
appears in Annex VI. Steps are underway to restructure CCI to make the
organization more responsive to its growing role. In particular, it has
been recommended that the internal control unit be strengthened and its
responsibilities more clearly defined. In addition, the treasurer's func-
tions are to be beefed up and a new operations manual is under preparation.
2.05      Management and Staff.  The present Director General has been at
CCI almost since its inception. He has spent the last eleven years in his
present position and understands the institution well. He is assisted by a
Deputy Director General. As of June 1978, the total staff of CCI, including
the branch offices, amounted to 214 of which 33 are professionals. The
professional staff is generally well trained academically but with limited
experience and thinly spread. Recruitment has not kept pace with the rapid
development of CCI's activities. Of the three Director positions one is
currently vacant and most of CCI's departments are understaffed. Staff
effectiveness is hampered by poor internal communication and lack of moti-
vation. At present there are eight expatriates employed by CCI, including
three working in computing activities. Among them, an advisor to the Director
General is financed by the World Bank under the Tourism line of credit. His
responsibilities include support for hotels and SME.
2.06      Training.  Although the Administrative Department has a Division
of Personnel and Training, there is presently no internal training
program in CCI and external training takes place on an ad hoc basis. There
is, moreover, a definite need in CCI for building up financial and managerial
skills of its existing staff and for training new staff. This is particularly
true as CCI intends to broaden the scope of its activities to compete more
effectively with commercial banks. CCI has asked for Bank help in developing
an internal training program and in arranging for outside training of junior
professionals in financial analysis, accounting and computing activities. In
addition, it wishes to hire short term consultants to perform financial train-
ing of its junior employees. Finally, CCI would like some of its analysts to
attend the EDI industrial courses and to undergo on-the-job training in
financial institutions abroad. (See paragraph 3.10.)
2.07      Policies and Operating Guidelines.  CCI's operating guidelines are
set out in its by-laws which were revised in May 1975 to incorporate modi-
fications regarding appraisal criteria, exposure limits, financial policy
and staff development which were suggested during appraisal of the first SME
project. Equity investments are limited to 25% of a company's share capital
or 25% of CCI's net worth whichever is lower. CCI's total exposure in a
single company cannot exceed 25% of CCI's net worth, or 80% of project cost.
Exceptions can be made for loans guaranteed by the Government. These limits
are satisfactory. The by-laws also set terms and conditions of different
categories of loans including maturities, minimum equity, spread, use of
loan proceeds and acceptable guarantees.



- 13 -
2.08      Procedures.  SME projects are handled by the Credit Division of the
Investment Department. A separate division is in charge of hotel projects.
Appraisals of small personal loans consist of a routine check of the proposed
purchase and the security offered. Applications for larger projects are sub-
ject to thorough appraisals which include calculations of rates of return.
Appraisals of projects financed under the first SME project include detailed
sectoral and market analysis for the first project in a series, followed by
simplified but complete appraisals of all subsequent projects of the same
type. Appraisals of projects are generally satisfactory and are completed by
site visits during project implementation. Rates of return on the SME proj-
ects in CCI's portfolio range from 13% to 33%, and average 16%. Nevertheless,
follow-up after disbursements is generally limited owing to staffing con-
straints. Some of the burden of project follow-up is taken by OPEI, but CCI
recognizes the need to improve in this area and CCI's Investment Department
has recently recruited a professional currently being trained, who will be in
charge of SME project supervision.
2.09      Procurement and Disbursement.  CCI's procedures for procurement and
disbursement are generally adequate. For consumer durable Lending disburse-
ments are made directly to the suppli-ers. For industrial loans CCI disburses
to the supplier or the construction contractor after verification of prices
and work performed. For larger loans, CCI reviews borrowers' procurement plans
and ensures that proper goods are obtained at reasonable prices.
2.10      Audit.  CCI's accounts are reviewed annually by the Government and
an independent auditor. The audits have been provided on time and, after a
few start-up problems owing to lack of familiarity with Bank requirements,
their overall quality is good. The audit report for FY 1977 has been submit-
ted to the Bank, as well as a complementary study recommending a number of
organizational changes.
2.11      Foreign Exchange Risk.  According to its by-laws:  "CCI shall take
adequate steps to protect itself against foreign exchange risks associated
with its borrowings abroad."  As in the case of its previous borrowings, in-
cluding the two IBRD lines of credit, the Government, through CAA, assumes,
the foreign exchange risk for a fee ofE' 1%.
2.12      Interest Rates.  In accordance with BCEAO guidelines, CCI's interest
rates on medium and long term loans now range from 6.5% to 13.0% and from
8.5% to 13.0% on short term credits. Rates on existing portfolio range from
5.5% to 13.0%. Deposit rates range from 2% to 9%. In keeping with BCEAO
guidelines, loans to artisans and small enterprises (defined as those with
outstanding credit under CFAF 20 mill:ion ($90,000) carry an interest rate of
8.5%.
2.13      Strategy.  Following the 1975 BCEAO reform which abolished the dis-
tinction between commercial and development banks, CCI, while consolidating
and developing its traditional activities, is studying the possibility of
entering the field of savings collection in order to procure additional
resources. A study is underway to determine what the opportunities are for



- 14 -
CCI in that field and what should be CCI's strategy. However, CCI is con-
scious that, before making any decision, it will have to strengthen its
organization and improve the technical expertise of its staff. Mobilization
of additional local resources through an active savings program is a useful
objective for CCI, although it must be implemented prudently to avoid any
undue negative impact. CCI's management is aware of this and has kept the
Bank closely informed of studies undertaken so far and will continue these
consultations in the future. As for its traditional development activities,
CCI intends to take a number of steps. Housing lending is likely to be
stable, as a certain portion will flow to a new affiliate of CCI, Compagnie
Ivorienne de Financement Immobilier (CIFIM), and a correspondingly greater
emphasis will be put on industrial operations especially among small and
medium scale investments. To support these activities CCI envisages an
increase of its capital which could take place before the end of 1979 and
which, together with the proposed loan, will help CCI reinforce its resource
base to face the projected development of its activities.
C.   Operations and Financial Performances
2.14      Resources and Operations.  The bulk of CCI's resources have come
from BCEAO rediscount, term borrowings from CAA and CCCE and term deposits
from Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (CNPS) and CAISTAB. CCI has
also received financing from USAID though the USAID/Conseil de l'Entente
African Enterprise Program and two lines of credit from IBRD, one for
Tourism ($9.7 million) and the other for SME ($5.6 million) both in 1975.
2.15      The following table summarizes the growth of CCI's loan approvals
over the last five years:
Table 2.1: LOAN APPROVALS 1973-1977
1973                         1977
No.     Amount               No.      Amount    %
Short Term (Up to 2 Years)         (CFAF million)                (CFAF million)
Vehicles                     592        534     10       1,166     2,094      13
Consumer durables          7,483        648     12     12,305      1,915      12
Commerce and Industry         66         22      -          53       165       1
Other                          1          1      -           -         -       -
8,142     1,205      22     13,524      4,174     26
Medium and Long Term /1
Housing                    1,756      3,690     68         904     7,653      48
Industry                      82        168      3          72     3,178      20
Other                          2        360      7           4     1,039       6
1,840     4,218      78        980    11,870      74
9,982     5,423    100      14,504    16,044    100
/1   Through 1975 medium term loans up to 7 years, thereafter up to 10.



- 15 -
The level of CCI's annual financing operations increased from CFAF 5.4 bil-
lion in FY 1973 to CFAF 16.0 billion in FY 1977. Over the last ten years
lending for housing has been decreasing relatively while credits to indus-
trial enterprises have increased significantly. Lending for consumer durables
has been irregular while vehicle financing has increased, including in par-
ticular credit to small Ivorian truc'king firms. Despite an increasingly wide
geographic spread, the distribution of CCI's loan portfolio reflects Abidjan's
dominant position. In FY 1977 CCI's operations outside of Abidjan represented
approximately 40% of the total, double the proportion outside Abidjan in
FY73. CCI's equity investments are limited, amounting to CFAF 275 million in
8 companies, the largest participation being in CAPRAL (CFAF 124.8 million),
a coffee and cocoa processing company.
2.16      Arrears.  Despite its relatively long history, CCI's accounting and
computer systems need improvement, particularly regarding payments on loans
outstanding. CCI classifies its loans as normal, doubtful or contentious
based on the borrower's repayment record and a review of its financial
condition. Borrowers six months in arrears automatically are classified as
doubtful, and those against whom legal proceedings have begun are classified
contentious. At the end of FY 1977, CFAF 2.1 billion of principal and
interest due was in arrears. Of this amount CFAF 1.2 billion or 4.8% of the
outstanding portfolio was doubtful or contentious. The largest part of
accounts in arrears (80%) affects housing loans, for which security is good.
There are no arrears on industrial loans, and very few on automobile and
consumer durable loans (see Annex V). It is clear, nevertheless, that CCI's
record management system for arrears requires extensive improvement to dis-
tinguish between principal and interest in arrears and by the age of arrears.
CCI's management is well aware of this, as are CCI's auditors, and both agree
to work to implement a new system.
2.17      Provisions.  Provisions against loans amounted to CFAF 730 million
at the end of FY 1977 and CFAF 7.0 million for equity investments. Specific
provisions covered 62% of doubtful loans and 67% of contentious loans. In
addition, there are three separate internal guarantee funds totaling CFAF 911
million which provide additional amounts to cover possible loan losses for
automobiles, consumer durables and small-scale enterprises. Finally, a pro-
vision for general risks is made each year to reduce taxes (see para. 2.18).
This account amounted to CFAF 921 million in 1977. Based on this, and a
review of selected accounts outstanding, CCI's auditors concluded that the
level of provisions is adequate. The Bank concurs with this view.
2.18      Financial Performance.  CCI's financial position is sound.  Assets
reached CFAF 25.7 billion as of September 30, 1977, over a two-fold increase
since 1973. The debt equity ratio stood at about 5.1:1 as of end 1977,
well below the 8 1/3:1 ratio agreed to under the first SME line of credit.
As shown in Annex II, CCI's profits in 1977 amounted to CFAF 9.4 million.
As a public institution which is not expected to pay dividends, CCI is not
concerned to show a profit after provisions but tries to maintain a solid
balance sheet: thus gross profit in excess of a nominal level is transferred
to a tax-free general reserve account. Taking account of these transfers



- 16 -
CCI's profit should be restated as CFAF 84 million, or a return of 2.2% on
average net worth. Such transfers are limited in any one year to 5% of loans
outstanding and cumulatively to 10% of loans outstanding. At present reserves
are well below these limits. Balance sheets, income statements and financial
ratios in Annexes II to IV detail CCI's financial condition.
2.19      Prospects.  Financial projections and the assumptions on which they
are based are presented in Annexes I to III. These projections assume the
assistance of this loan and a concomitant expansion of CCI's industrial lend-
ing. CCI's pipeline of medium-scale industrial projects consists of over 12
projects requiring about $10 million in financing from CCI. Of these projects,
six to eight for about $3 million in financing would qualify as medium-scale
investments under the project. The remaining $2 million allocated to medium-
scale projects would be committed to projects to be identified. In order
to meet its projected operations, CCI will have to mobilize about CFAF 18
billion ($81 million) in the next five years. The proposed loan will cover
about 15% of this. The balance will continue to be provided by advances from
BCEAO, CAA and CCCE, as well as a proposed increase in equity. Over the
forecast period CCI's profits and debt equity ratio remain satisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Concept and Objectives
3.01      The first SME project was designed to support IBRD objectives in
the industrial sector in Ivory Coast. These objectives include reinforce-
ment of the local industrial and financial intermediaries, integration of
financial and non-financial assistance to Ivorian enterprises, provision of
financial resources to productive Ivorian enterprises and creation of employ-
ment at a cost per job considerably below the existing average for the
industrial sector.
3.02      As a continuation of the first SME project, the proposed project
will pursue these objectives further, especially to improve the institutional
setting catering to the needs of SMEs in Ivory Coast by strengthening CCI,
the local development bank specialized in lending to SME. It will also draw
lessons from the experience gathered in the first project and expand the
range of beneficiaries.  As a result of developments in Ivory Coast and the
first operation, it is clear that commercial banks are increasingly aggressive
in searching out SME borrowers and providing them short- and medium-term loans.
This has reduced somewhat CCI's natural clientele, and forced it to broaden
its purview to include larger industrial borrowers, and informal sector
artisans. The increased competition among banks is of distinct benefit to
borrowers and is supported by the Bank. Nevertheless, it does impose on
CCI (and BIDI) certain obligations to ensure a wide and efficient range of
services. This project, which involves an important institution building
effort, as well as providing resources for artisans, small- and medium-scale
entrepreneurs would help CCI meet these obligations.



- 17 -
B.   Description and Main Features
3.03      The proposed IBRD loan of $12.6 million would provide for:
(i) credit for modern sector small-scale enterprises
($6 million);
(ii) credit for modern sector medium-scale enterprises
($5 million);
(iii) credit for artisan's cooperatives ($1.0 million);
(iv) technical assistance for CCI ($600,000).
All firms supported by the project would be majority Ivorian-owned. The
project will be implemented over a three year period.
Small-Scale Component
3.04      The project would finance about 37 small industrial investments.
Out of the proceeds of the IBRD loan, $6 million will provide medium- and
long-term financing for fixed investment and permanent working capital in
small-scale enterprises. For purposes of the project, small-scale enterprises
will be defined as Ivorian-owned projects with total investments of CFAF 75.0
million ($340,000) or less. These projects would have a cost per job no
higher than the average of the first project. As in the first line of
credit, project promotion and follow-up will be generally provided by OPEI.
Firms in the preidentified branches from the first line of credit (e.g.
baking, woodworking and garages) would continue to be financed but the
perspective of CCI would be extended to other sectors. Promotion in some of
these branches, like baking, has been effective enough to attain a level of
market saturation while other new sectors require finance and assistance.
Among the sectors showing promising market potential, CCI intends to be more
active in civil works, transport and wood-processing. Projects of these
types are reflected in the project pipeline.
Medium-Scale Component
3.05      Given its need to become more compettive with the commercial banks,
CCI asked the Bank that funds be provided for the financing of economically
sound medium-scale industrial projects. CCI's promotional effort in this
field began only recently. Nevertheless, based on a preliminary pipeline
reviewed during appraisal, CCI should be able to promote about ten medium-
scale industrial projects in a three-year commitment period. These projects
are expected to average a total investment cost of CFAF 220 million ($1 mil-
lion), and will be mainly oriented toward the transformation of local re-
sources. Among the projects under consideration by CCI are a tannery, a
soap factory, a saw mill, a piggery, a dairy and a label printing factory.
Although no cost per job threshold will be established for the medium-scale
component, all projects will be economically sound.



- 18 -
3.06      The involvement of CCI in medium-scale industrial projects, although
justified for institutional reasons, raises the question of its competition
with BIDI, another Ivorian development bank which has also been supported by
the World Bank Group. In view of the size and vigor of Ivory Coast's private
sector, two DFCs are justified as long as their respective fields of inter-
vention are reasonably clearly defined. BIDI and CCI have traditionally
concentrated on different borrowers. BIDI's operations have been for mostly
larger-scale investments while those of CCI have been for small. In order
to preserve the integrity of these operational spheres and to avoid undue
competition between CCI's growing medium-scale activities and BIDI, the
proceeds of the credit to CCI would be used only for projects of firms with
total investment under CFAF 300 million ($1.36 million).
Artisans Component
3.07      Support to artisans in the Ivory Coast is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Tourism. Training of artisans began some years ago at various
centers throughout the country. Recently the Ministry of Tourism has been
restructured and strengthened so as to expand opportunities for graduates of
these centers. As a result, over the next five years the Ministry of Tourism
proposes to construct four new regional artisanal promotion centers linked to
a sales hall in Abidjan and ten artisanal cooperatives linked to existing or
new training centers. The four promotion centers will be located in Aben-
gourou, Man, Korhogo and Yamoussoukro and will provide training, raw materials
and marketing services. As for the cooperatives, the Ministry of Tourism
will work directly with artisans to help them establish themselves as coop-
eratives and will ensure follow-up assistance. In line with this a detailed
survey of the artisan sector and its potential is being carried out by an
outside consultant.
3.08      Among the ten artisanal cooperatives to be developed, two have been
preappraised.  The two include a multi-purpose cooperative in Grand Bassam,
which will produce wood, textile and metal handicrafts, largely for sale to
tourists.  The second in Agboville will group together graduates of a train-
ing center which concentrates on rattan furniture making. Output of the
cooperative would be sold in the local market. Artisanal cooperatives have
significant positive features not only in terms of generating employment at
a relatively low cost per job, but doing so in smaller cities and for women.
Based on detailed appraisals of the two prepared cooperatives, the cost per
job for them would be about $2,700, and the average investment cost per
cooperative about $250,000. The proposed investment cost for the coopera-
tive program, not including the regional promotion centers or the expatriate
technical assistance being secured from other lenders, would be $2.5 mil-
lion. Under the project, a special fund for artisans of $1.0 million would
be channeled through CCI to finance the investment and working capital of
four cooperatives. Grand Bassam and Agboville would be the first two of
these. Katiola (pottery)--which is expected to employ exclusively women--
and Waragnene (weaving) are likely to be the other two. All of the projects
would be prepared by the Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with CCI, and
should be replicable on a far wider scale in the future.



- 1]9 -
Financing Plan
3.09      It is expected that CCI wi:Ll finance about 37 small-scale subproj-
ects, 10 medium-scale subprojects and 4 artisan subprojects. The financing
plan expected for subprojects under the line of credit is presented below:
Table 3.1: SUBPROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Small-Scale                Medium-Scale                Artisans
Investment                   Investment               Subprojects
CFAF       US$    %        CFAF        US$    %       CFAF        US$    %
(millions)  ('000)         (millions)  ('000)         (millions)  ('000)
Average Total
Investment      44.6       203   100        220       1,000  100         69       310   100
Average CCI
Financing       35.6        162    80       176          800   80        62       280    90
of which IBRD: 35.6         162    80       110          500   50        62       280    90
Contribution of
Entrepreneurs   9            41    20        44          200   20         7         30    10
Number of sub-
projects
expected                    37                            10                        4
Total Cost of
Subprojecs    1,650      7,500   100    2,200        10,000  100        276     1,240   100
of which
IBRD:       1,320      6,000    80    1,100         5,000   50       250      1,100    90
Technical Assistance to CCI
3.10      In order to strengthen CCI's development operations, $600,000 would
be allocated to finance the foreign exchange cost of a technical assistance
program which would include two components. First, to upgrade CCI's financial
management and financial analysis capability, $300,000 would be provided to
finance various programs of advanced and specialized financial training for
CCI's staff. These programs will be run by external consultants over a two-
year period, and would require about 18 man-months of time, costing $150,000.
The Bank would also finance the cost of scholarships ($150,000) for some of
CCI's staff who will be sent for training abroad. Second, in line with CCI's



- 20 -
intention to become more active in the industrial sector, and its need to
supervise more closely physical implementation of medium-scale projects, the
Bank would finance the foreign costs of an expatriate advisor experienced in
small- and medium-scale industry for three years ($300,000).
Terms and Conditions
3.11      Proposed terms and conditions are as follows:
(a)  The proposed Bank loan of $12.6 million will be lent to CCI
for 15 years including three years of grace. The amortization
of the loan would be equal semi-annual payments of principal
and interest. A fixed amortization schedule is justified
to provide CCI with additional local resources. The Bank's
standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% would apply.
(b)  As in the first loan, the foreign exchange risk will be borne
by the Government through CAA for a fee of 1%.
(c) The terms of CCI's subloans will be flexible with a maximum
of 15 years and a minimum of 3 years; terms are expected to
average 8 years including 2 years of grace.
(d) The free limit for subloans to be financed under the small-
scale component would be CFAF 40 million ($180,000). This
corresponds to the free limit in the first project. There
will be no free limit for artisans and medium-scale sub-
projects which will have to be approved by the Bank.
(e) CCI's onlending rate for small- and medium-scale enterprises
would be 12.5% including 1% to CAA to cover the foreign
exchange risk. In accordance with BCEAO guidelines, loans
to artisans and small-scale enterprises with outstanding
credit under CFAF 20 million will carry an interest rate of
8.5%. This definition of small-scale enterprises has not
been altered since 1975 to keep pace with inflation and is not
likely to be altered in the near future. Therefore, the number
of firms eligible for this low rate in the second project will
be reduced and is not likely to represent more than 15% of the
total enterprise projects. CCI will therefore, have no diffi-
culty in subsidizing interest rates internally without recourse
to the subsidy fund used in the first project, but which has
been suspended for future obligations. Loans to artisanal
cooperatives would be guaranteed by the Fonds de Garantie.
(f) Other customary covenants and conditions would be included in
the loan agreement. As in the first project CCI's debt/equity
ratio will be limited to 8 1/3:1.



- 21 -
Special Features
3.12      To reinforce the project's institutional objectives, agreement was
reached with CCI on the following points:
(a) Economic Analysis. CCI agreed to calculate economic
rates of return for all subprojects that it finances.
(b) Cost per Job. Although higher than expected, the average
cost of $9,300 per job created in the first SME project
is considerably below the estimated average cost per job
in the industrial sector, and roughly double the UPP level
for Ivory Coast ($4,100). The proposed project would go
further toward decreasing the cost of employment generation
by: 1) using the average cost per job in the existing
project as a ceiling in the second; and 2) financing artisan
cooperatives at an average cost per job of $4,000 or lower.
(c) Training. CCI submitted to the Bank a detailed program of
internal and external training of its staff in financial
management and financial analysis.
(d) Loan Recovery. CCI will undertake a review of subloans in
arrears by more than six months to determine the reasons for
nonrecovery and to propose adequate measures to resolve
recovery difficulties. The conclusions of this study will
be reviewed by the Bank.
(e) OPEI. The Government of Ivory Coast will prepare a study on
the effectiveness and efficiency of OPEI.
3.13      Project Costs and Financing.  Total project costs are estimated to
be CFAF 4.3 billion ($19.5 million) of which 65% or CFAF 2.8 billion ($12.7
million) is foreign costs. The Bank's share in project financing would be
$12.6 million (64%) or slightly less than the total foreign component. For
credit to small scale enterprises, CCI's normal financing would comprise 80%
of total project costs with the remainder representing owner's equity. The
IBRD would finance the full amount of CCI's credit. This is justified to
provide an incentive for CCI to concentrate its efforts on the small scale
modern sector. For credit to medium-scale enterprises the Bank would finance
50% of total project cost (roughly 62% of CCI's loan), which is less than
the estimated foreign exchange cost of the subprojects. Loans to artisanal
cooperatives for infrastructure development would cover 90% of project cost.
The remainder would be provided (sometimes in kind) by members of the
cooperatives. For the technical assistance component the IBRD would meet
foreign costs up to $600,000, the local costs being met by CCI.
Organization and Implementation
3.14      All subloans would be subject to appraisal by CCI.  Technical
assistance from OPEI would be provided to subborrowers as and when needed.



- 22 -
CCI could require a subborrower to obtain such assistance when deemed
appropriate. The coordination committee set up under the first line of
credit to review the subprojects and which consists of representatives from
CCI, OPET and the commercial banks, will be maintained.
Monitoring
3.15      CCI will be required to submit to the Bank regular operational and
financial reports. For CCI these requirements cover normal DFC information
including quarterly financial statements, arrears and resource positions,
operations (approvals, commitments and disbursements) and annual reports and
audit. Operational reports will also be required on recruitment and training.
For OPEI reporting requirements would include annual reports.
Technical Assistance
3.16      The qualifications, terms and conditions of employment of the
advisor and short-term consultants financed under the project will be subject
to IBRD approval. Provision would be made to finance three man years of
advisor and 18 manmonths of short-term consultant for training and special-
ized advice at an average cost of $8,300 per month, of which 60% ($5,000)
represents salary and the remainder overhead.
Procurement
3.17      The purchase of equipment and goods under the project is not suit-
able to international competitive bidding given the nature and small size of
subprojects to be financed and goods to be procured. CCI is expected to
follow local procurement procedures which are adequate to ensure that goods
and services are suitable and reasonably priced.
Disbursement
3.18      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) subloans to (i) small-scale enterprises and artisans, 100%
of CCI's subloans; (ii) medium-scale enterprises 50% of
total investment amounts; and
(b) technical assistance, 100% of foreign expenditures; staff
training, 100% of expenditures.
Benefits and Justification
3.19      The project will provide for the continuation and the improvement
of the actions in favor of small-scale Ivorian enterprises undertaken in
the first line of credit.  It will also set up a scheme for the financing
of artisans which is expected to be replicable on a larger scale in the
near future and will help CCI broaden its clientele toward medium size firms.
The project will reinforce CCI's appraisal capability through technical advice
and staff training. By providing financing for medium-scale projects it will



- 23 -
allow CCI to diversify its activities and strengthen its position in the
financial community.
3.20      In terms of investments the project is expected to support about 37
small-scale projects representing investments of CFAF 1,650 billion ($7.5 mil-
lion), about 10 medium-scale projects representing investments of CFAF 2,200
billion ($10.0 million), and four artisan cooperatives representing investment
of CFAF 276 million ($1.2 million). These investments will generate direct
employment for about 2,300 persons at a cost for small-scale enterprises and
artisans far below the industrial average. An interesting feature of the
project will be the creation through the artisan component of approximately
100 jobs for women potters at a cost of approximately $1,000 per job. Indirect
employment effects, while not measured, will also be important.
3.21      Among its unquantifiable benefits, the project will help reinforce
local financial intermediaries and encourage the promotion of small Ivorian
entrepreneurs by providing them with much needed technical assistance and
financing.
Risks
3.22      In designing this project, full account has been taken of the
lessons learned from the first project, thereby reducing the risk that project
benefits may not be realized as expected. However, the project will still
face two risks. First, with respect to the artisan component, there is a
possibility that the implementation of the proposed program will be slower
than envisaged, owing to a lack of familiarity of artisans with the formal
circuits of credit and of CCI with this new type of operation. The grouping
of artisans into cooperatives with the help of the Ministry of Tourism
should reduce this potential risk. Second, for the small-scale component
the establishment of a target for cost of job creation will entail an addi-
tional burden for OPEI and CCI in the promotion of these projects. However,
OPEI and CCI recognize the importance of this feature and would agree to meet
the proposed target.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      A loan of $12.6 million to Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI), with
the guarantee of the Republic of Ivory Coast is recommended. An appropriate
term for the loan is 15 years with 3 years grace.
4.02      During negotiations agreement was obtained on the following points:
(a) on-lending terms to subborrowers at an interest rate of
12.5% except for small borrowers (as defined by the BCEAO)
which would pay 8.5% (para 3.11);



- 24 -
(b)  the foreign exchange risk to be borne by CAA for a fee of
1% (para 3.11);
(c)  restriction of subloans to majority Ivorian owned enter-
prises (para 3.03) and in the case of small scale firm
to those with investment costs below CFAF 75.0 million
(para 3.04);
(d)  calculation of economic rates of return for all projects
(para 3.12);
(e)  promotion of small-scale projects which have a cost per
job of $9,300 or less (para 3.12);
(f)  medium-scale loans would not finance investments above
CFAF 300 million (para 3.06); and
(g)  loans to artisanal cooperatives would be guaranteed by the
Fonds de Garantie (para 3.11).
4.03      With these conditions fulfilled the project would be suitable for
a World Bank loan of $12.6 million.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                Page 1 of 3
cci
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1.        Forecast of Development Loans Approved (in CFAF 000's)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
-Short Term/-l
Automobile                2,094   2,408   2,769   3,184   3,662   4,211   4,643
Consumer Durable          1,915   2,106   2,317   2,549   2,804   3,084   3,392
4,009   4,514   5,086   5,733   6,466   7,295   8,035
-Medium Term /2
Housing                   3,011   3,312   3,643   4,007   4,406   4,845   5,330
Commerce and Industry
(including SSE's)        3,508   4,236   4,744   5,217   5,845   6,546   7,332
Public Enterprises        4,642   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000
11,435  11,548  12,387  13,224  14,251  15,391  16,662
- Long Term/3
Hotels                    1&039   1,000      800      600      600     600      600
16,044  17.062  18,273  19,557  21,317  23,286  25,297
- Equity Participations are expected to amount to 50 million francs CFA every year.
2.        Commitments and Disbursements
- Approvals will be commLitted as follows:
. Automobile and Consumer durables: 100% of approved amount
in year of approval;
. Other projects: 70% of approved amount in year of approval a
and 30% in the nex;t year;
Equity participati-on: 100% in the year of approval.
1/ Up to 2 years.
2/ From 2 to 10 years according t:o the new BCEAO regulations.
3/ Over 10 years.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                Page 2 of 3
- Commitments will be disbursed as follows:
. Short term: 100% in year committed:
. Medium term: 60% in year committed and 40% the next year;
. Hotels: 40% in year committed, 40% the second year and 20%
the third year.
3.        Terms
- Consumer durables: 1 year without grace;
- Automobile: 2 years without grace;
- Medium term: 7 years including one year of grace;
- Hotels:  12 years including 2 years of grace.
4.        Revenues
Interest and commission received on development portfolio is
expected to average 11% per annum on medium term loans and 12% on long
term loans.
5.        Resources
-Current liabilities are expected to grow at the rate of 15%
per annum;
- Deposits are expected to grow at the rate of 10%;
- Rediscounting is to amount to 35% of the portfolio (BCEAO ceiling);
- Normal borrowings from CAA are projected to increase at the rate
of 10%;
- The need for further resources is expected to be covered by the
second IBRD SSE loan to the extent of approximately 45% and the
rest (shown as unidentified) by special loans from CAA to finance
the high level of housing finance provided by CCI.
6.        Financial Charges
Interest on old borrowings amounts to 7.5% of the average outstand-
ing balance; interest on new borrowings averages 8%.
7.        Personnel and Administrative Expenses
They will grow at 15% a year to reflect increased staffing
technical assistance and development of CCI's activities.
8.        Provisions are increased each year to remain at 2,5% of the out-
standing portfolio.l/ 85% of the gross income is then allocated to reserves
and general provisions so as to decrase income tax.
1/ 5% of the total loans portfolio is set aside as doubtful loans and provisions to
cover losses on thiese loans are made at the rAte of 50%.



ANNEX I
- 27 -                Page 3 of 3
9.        Fixed Assets remain constant until 1979 and increase by 50 million
a year thereafter.
10.       Dividends.  CCI does not distribute dividends.
11.       Taxes.  Income tax is 33% of net profit.
12.       Capital.  To maintain a sound debt equity ratio, the capital of
CCI is expected to double in 1979 by cash subscription.



IVORY COAST
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Income Statement
(CFA million)
Actual                                         Projected
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977           1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Revenues
From interest & commissions             68/:    871  1,099  1,659  2,052         3,003  3,645  4,392  5,101  5,667  6,073
From investments                         17      19      21      37     53           61      70      77     86      95    103
Others                                   74      89    178    168       59           62      65      68      72     75      79
TOTAL          775    979  1,298  1,864  2,164           3,126  3,780  4,537  5,259  5,837  6,255
Expenses
Personnel                               145    182    236    280    402             462    531    611    703    808    925
Administrative                          136    175    183    224    255             293    337    384    445    513    590
Depreciation                             19      30      39     60      65           65      70      75     80      51      30
Interest on borrowings                  326    432    581    824  1,185          1,690  2,106  2,567  2,938  3,250  3,288
Specific provisions                      11      18    206    205    138             36    164    179    145    111         67
General provisions                      130    132       24    246      76          493    486    610    806    938  1,152
TOTAL          767    969  1,269  1,839  2,120           3,039  3,694  4,429  5,117  5,671  6,052
Gross income                              8      10      29     26      44           87      86    108    142    166    203
Extraordinary gains (or losses)          (3)    (5)       -      -    (34)                        -      -   M       -
Profits before income tax                 5       5      29     26      10           87      86    108    142    166    203
Income tax                                1       1      17     22       1           29     29      36      47      55      68
Net profit                                4       4      12       3      9           58      57      72     95    111    135
a                                                                 b      A



- 29 -                                                            ASEX ',I
rV090Y COASr
Iredit de la Cote d'Ivoire
Balance Sheets
(CPA million)
Actual                                                   Projected
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977          1978      1979      198C      19S1      1982     1998
Assets
.urrent:
Cash end Banks                                          221.      163       131      579       843           919    1,056    1,078    1,205    1,356         1,588
Others                                                   35        99       183       ss8      188           401.       461      530       609       701.      30E
2S6      262       317       837    1,031          1,320     1,517     i,6o      1,381   2,057     2,39L
Investments:
Short-term loans                                      1,20o4    1,494     1,365     3,359    4,717         s,463     6,16     6,942    7,835      e,8so     9,513
Medium-ter   oans                                    35853    S,730       7,921     9,971   18,832         22,228    27,o60    52,4i6   36,552    39,408    40,726
Long-term~                                             4,960    5,6o3     6,191     7,179       163          66o     1,375     2,053    2.516      2,869     3,142
Sub-total                                       10,017    12,827    15,477    20,509   23,717        28,359    34,591    41,411    06,903    51.126    53,681
doubtful loans                                        647       741       948       993    1,185          1,400    1,728     2,087     2,376     2,598     2,732
less provisions                                      (358)    (461)    (561)    (664)        730          (700)    (864)  (1,043)   (1,188)   (1,299)   (1.366)
Net loans                                       1C,306    13,107   iS,864    20,837   24,142          29,059   35,45s   42.455    48,091    52,425    55,047
lnvestments                                            49        75        89       237      287           342       392       442       492       542       592
Fixed Assets (net)                                        169       234       287       300                    226       206       lBl       151       150       170
TOTO, ASSETS                                           10,780    13,680    16,524    22,149   25,753         30,939    37,570    44.686   5o,s48    55,174    53,203
LIabiltties
Current:
Accounts payable                                        126       180       344       841    1,052           982     1,129     1,258     1,498     1,717     1,975
Current sturities and borrowings                        1493      16        602     1,092     1,600        1,800     1,900     2,300    2,800      3,200     3,500
Deposits                                                214       135       160    - 233    4,779          5,060     5,566     6,123     6,735     7,408     8,145
833     1,031    1,106     2,166    7,431          7,842     8,595     9,681   11,028    12,305    13,620
3orrowings:
BCEAO                                                 3,205     4,833    6,524      8,505    7 962         9,522   12,711    15,224   16,416    17,894    19,744
CCOS                                                  3,469     3,4514    3,356     3,381    2,88w         2,417     2,147     1,577     1,607     1,337     1,o67
CAA.                                                  1,123    2,005      2,8141    4,206    4,509         4,707     5,178     s,6s35    6,265    6,891     7,580
uSAID                                                              67       205       231      402           382       362       342       322       302      282
IBRD SSE I                                                          -        -         -         -            12       392     1,126     1.031      935       841
IBE0D/T                                                             -         -         -       54           572     1,325    2,039      2,175     1,995     1,815
V3RD SB! II-                                                        -                            -             -         -    1,002      2,000    a,85o     2.64o
Unidentified                                                                                     -         2,300     1,097     1,549    2,946      3,05B8    1.73
7,797    10,367    12,926    16,326   15,815        19,912    23,212    28,812    32,762    35,262    35,812
less current maturities                                   _-_                 _         _   (1.600)       (1.800)   {l. 9M)   (2.300)  (2,B00). (5.20D)   (3.500)
borrowings (oet)                                 7,797    10,367    12,926    16,326   14,215         18,112    21,312    26,512    29,962    32,062    32,312
Equity:
Guarantee Fund                                          605       687       768       917    1,112         1,351     1,486     1,634     1,798     1,978     2,175
Share Capital                                         1,000     1,000    1,000      i,881    2,000         2,000     4,000    4,000      4,0oo    4,000      4,0D0
Reserves, retained profits and general provisions       548       596       724       870      9CS         1,634     2,177     2,85      3,760     46809     6
?_       2.285            3O4q2  5.668  4,107         .85    7,66                  9.558    10.78    12.271
TOTAL LIABILITIEl                                      10,780    13,680    16,524    22,149   2S,753         30,939    37,570    44,686   50,548    55,174    58,203
*                 j/  Unaudited for FY 1977.
2   Consistent with changes in BCEAO definitions after 1976. Medium-term loans comprise aL loans between 2 and 10 years and long-tern loans comprise sll loans
over 10 years.



IVORY COAST
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
Actual                                    Projected
1973    1974    1975   1976   1977     1978   1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Income and expenses as_%
of average total assets
Gross Income                    7.4     8.0      8.6    9.6    8.7     11.1   10.8   11.0   11.1    11.1    11.0
Financial Expenses              3.1     3.5      3.8    4.3    4.7      6.0     6.0      6.2     6.2     6.2     5.8
Administrative Expenses         2.9     3.2      3.1    2.9    2.6      2.9      2.7     2.6     2.6     2.6     2.7 o
Provisions and Others           1.0     0.8      1.3    1.3    1.3      1.9     1.8      1.9     2.0     2.0     2.2
Taxes                           -        -       0.1    0.1     -       0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
Net Profit                      0.4     0.5      0.2    1.2    0.1      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2
Profit as % of Share Capital       0.4     u.4      1.2   0.2    0.5       2.9     1.4     1.8      2.4     2.8     3.4
Profit as % of average equity      0.2     0.2      0.5    ) I    0.2      1.3     0.9     0.9      1.1     1.1     1.2
Debt/Equity Ratios
Term debt/equity                3.6     4.5      5.1    4.5    3.3      3.7     2.8      3.2     3.2     3.1     2.8
Total debt/equity               3.9     4.9      5.6    5.1    5.1      5.3     4.0      4.3     4.4     4.3     3.9



ANNEX V
- 31 -
IVORY COAST
Credit de la Cost d'Ivoire
Arrears Position
(as of September 30, 1977)
Percentage of    Total arrears    X of total        % of total
outstanding       in % of           sectoral        arrears
portfolio         outstanding       outstanding
portfolio         portfolio
Housing                44.27               3.68              8.31           79.1
Industries             16.77                  -
Public Sector          14.74
Automobiles            10.97               0.11              0.10            2.3
Consumer Durables       8.00               0.13              0.16            3.1
Commerce and Artisans  2.68                0.39             14.55            8.6
Other                   2.57               0.31             12.06            6.9
TOTAL      100.00               4.62               4.62          100.0



- 32 -
ANNEX VI
ORGANIZATION CHART
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Director
General
Deputy
Director
General
Computing                                                                          Inspector
Services                                                                           General
Branches
Diretof r                              Director                                    Director
of                of                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of
Investments                         Administration                                  Finance
Investments      Loan               ~~Personnel         dnistrative              Finance              kccounting
Recovery  and     Support~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 33 -                ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
IVORY COAST
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Extracts of Policy Statement
Article 2 - Duration of Loans
The duration of loans and guarantees granted by the Credit de
la Cote d'Ivoire shall not exceed the duration of the resource used to
finance them.
Article 4, para. 4 - To every loan application submitted to the
Board the Managing Director shall attach a memorandum setting out concise
and complete information on the prospective borrower, his financial situ-
ation, income, occupation, the purpose of the loan, the proposed debt
servicing schedule, etc.
Article 7 - Commitments
As a general principle, the total sum taken up in loans granted
by the Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire to a single business enterprise (but
excluding those guaranteed by the State), together with participations
taken up and all other commitments of a financial nature entered into
in respect of that enterprise, shall not normally exceed 25% of Credit funds.
Article 8 - Foreign exchange risks
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire shall take adequate steps to protect
itself against foreign exchange risks associated with its borrowings
abroad.
Article 9 - Loan procedures, paras.l and 2 -
Credit de la C^te d'Ivoire shall demand that its borrowers adopt
accounting procedures consistent with good management practice. Under the
terms of the loan agreements into which it enters, the Bank shall ensure it
is in a position to exercise regular first hand supervision of the business
*             firms and organizations that benefit from its assistance.
It shall be a general rule that loans granted by the Credit de la
Co^te d'Ivoire shall not be disbursed directly to the borrowers but shall
be paid to contractors and suppliers to whom the borrower is indebted.
Article 10 - Organization, para. 1 -
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire shall make all reasonable efforts to
foster and maintain a sound, well-balanced organizational system, and a
management team qualified to judge the financing projects submitted to it,
assist business firms with their project preparation and supervise project
execution. To this end, the Bank shall pay particular attention to training
its higher-level staff both locally and abroad.



- 34 -                 ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
Article 11 - Value of participations
Credit de la C8te d'Ivoire may take up participations in the
capital of public or private corporations, but they shall not normally
exceed 25% of the capital of such corporations.
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire shall not normally take on the
management of business enterprises to which it lends financial assistance.
However, if the Board of Directors is in unanimous agreement, and provided
that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance approves, the Bank may
take up participations beyond the limit specified in the foregoing paragraph
and may even assume managerial responsibility when the prevailing circumstances
and the nature of the venture warrant it.
Article 26 - Types of operation
Short, medium or long-term loans may be granted on the general
conditions specified in Title I of these By-laws to commercial, craft
or manufacturing enterprises and to members of the professions.
The purpose of such loans shall be to finance equipment programs.
They shall be designed to cover true investment and not the purchase of
capital assets or existing property. Nevertheless, so as to foster the
transfer of production activities into the hands of Ivory Coast nationals,
the Board of Directors may approve loans for the purchase of business
ventures on such conditions and terms as it shall determine.
Article 27 - Amoulnt and duration of loans, paras. 1, 2 and 3
In fixing the amount and duration of a loan it proposes to grant,
the Credit de la Co^te d'lvoire shall bear in mind the total financial
requirements of the project in question and the financial status of the
borrowing enterprise.
In principle, the financial assistance lent by Credit de la Cote
d'Ivoire shall not exceed 50% of total project cost. However, the Bank
may go beyond this limit when special circumstances warrant it, although
in no case shall Bank financial assistance be greater than 80% of the total
project cost. The Bank shall ensure that the promoter of the project
furnishes a reasonable stake in the form of self-financing or some prior
contribution to execution of the project.
As far as loans to craftsmen are concerned, the extent of the
personal contribution shall be assessed as follows:
- From CFAF 500,000 to 1 million          5%
- From CFAF 1 million to 2 million       15%
- Over CFAF 2 million                    20%



- 35 -                ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
Article 30 - Loan procedures
Under normal circumstances, loans to business firms shall not
entail disbursement direct to the beneficiary. Funds shall be disbursed
to suppliers of materials and works contractors.
Article 31 - Guarantees, para. 1
A loan to any business firm shall. automatically call for an
appropriate real or personal surety. Goodwill or equipment offered as
collateral, or fire or life insurance policies, shall be considered as
no more than subsidiary guarantees.



ANNEX VIII
- 36 -
IVORY COAST
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Fiscal Year                     Quarterly                    Cummulative
1980:  1st quarter                  25
2nd quarter                 150
3rd quarter                 225
4th quarter                 325                           725
1981:  1st quarter                 350
2nd quarter                 350
3rd quarter                 375
4th quarter                 425                         1,500
1982   1st quarter                 650
2nd quarter                 750
3rd quarter                 900
4th quarter               1,200                         5,000
1983   1st quarter               1,400
2nd quarter              1,500
3rd quarter               1,500
4th quarter              1,200                         10,600
1984   1st quarter               1,000
2nd quarter                 700
3rd quarter                 200
4th quarter                 100                        12,600



ANNEX IX
- 37 -
I'ORY COAST
Selected Documents Available in Project File
A. Sector Reports and Studies
1. Abidjan: Urban Development and Employment in the Ivory Coast,
1976, ILO.
2.  Centrale de Bilans:  1976, Republic of Ivory Coast, Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Plan, 1977.
3. Programme des Investissements Publics: 1977-1979, Republic of
Ivory Coast, 1977.
4. Propositions des Mesures et d'Action en Faveur des P.M.E. Ivoirienne,
1977, Department of Industry.
5. Review of Financial Institutions in Ivory Coast, IBRD.
B. Project Related Documents
1. CCI annual reports and audited accounts.
2. OPEI annual reports.
3. Subproject submissions.
4. Recommendations Relatives a l'Amelioration des Procedures
Administratives et Comptables et au Renforcement du
Controle Interne, 1978, Arthur Anderson.
5. Pre-Etude sur la Collecte de l'Epargne en C^ote d'Ivoire, 1977,
SEDES.
6. CCI - Statuts, Reglements Interieurs.
7. CCI - detailed data on staffing, internal procedures, operations.
8. CCI - detailed tables on arrears by sector and term.
9. CCI - list of medium-scale projects in the pipeline.



