Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2408-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE (CCI)
WITH THE GUARNATEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR AN
ARTISANS, SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISES PROJECT
February 12, 1979
This domen has a retcted distributin and may be mud by recipients ony In t  peunac of
their effil dis. Its ectents may not otberwise be  bdcd wktou Wd Dak aIborlrtlon. l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1978)
US$1 - CFAF 220
ABBREVIATIONS
AFCOPA    Association Francaise de Formation, Cooperation
Promotion et Animation d'Entreprises
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDI       Bureau de Developpement Industriel
BIDI      Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
BNDA      Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
BNEC      Banque Nationale d'Epargne et Credit
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI       Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
CIFIM     Compagnie Ivoirienne de Financement Immobiliere
CSPPA     Caisse de Stabilisation de Prix des Produits Agricoles
DDI       Departement de Developpement Industriel
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FGCEI     Fonds de Garantie des Credits aux Entreprises Ivoiriennes
OPEI      Office pour la Promotion des Entreprises Ivoiriennes
SONAFI    Societe Nationale de Financement
SSE       Small-Scale Enterprise
SME       Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UMOA      Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine
UNIDO     United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID     US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
CCI: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
IVORY COAST
ARTISAN, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI).
Guarantor:           The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amount:              US$12.6 million equivalent.
Terms:               15 years, including 3 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7 percent per annum.
Project              The project aims at improving the institutional setting
Description:        for catering to the needs of small- and medium-scale
enterprises. It will provide long-term financing for
Ivorian owned small- and medium-scale enterprises and
artisans' cooperatives. It will also finance training for
CCI staff and technical assistance. The project does
not face special risks.
Costs and            Total project costs are estimated at US$19.6 million
Financing:          of which $12.7 million is in foreign exchange.  The
proceeds of the Bank loan would finance up to 90 percent
of artisans' cooperatives subprojects, 80 percent of
small-scale enterprise subprojects and 50 percent of
medium-scale enterprise subprojects; the remainder would
be financed by owner's equity and local commercial banks.
For the technical assistance component, the Bank would
finance the foreign exchange costs up to $300,000, the
local costs being met by CCI; the Bank would also fi-
nance the cost of training CCI staff up to $300,000.
Estimated                                     (in US$ Millions)
Disbursements:                          FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84
Annual               0.7   0.8   3.5   5.6   2.0
Cumulative           0.7   1.5   5.0  10.6  12.6
Appraisal Report:   No. 2223-IVC dated February 12, 1979.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR AN ARTISAN, SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISES PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire with the guarantee of the Republic of the Ivory
Coast for the equivalent of $12.6 million to help finance an artisan, small
and medium enterprises project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to the ultimate beneficiaries for up
to fifteen years including an appropriate period of grace with an interest
rate of 12.5 percent per annum; loans to small-scale enterprises with less
than CFAF 20,000,000 of debt would carry an interest rate of 8.5 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions, updated by a mission which visited the Ivory Coast
in February and April 1978, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.         Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1977,
per capita GNP reached US$710, one of the highest in Africa. The good over-
all performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal government policies vis-a-vis foreign
private investment as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability
of external aid.
1/   Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report No. 2358-IVC
for a SAPH Rubber Project, dated November L978.



4.        Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (par-
ticularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were
concentrated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments
were made in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricul-
tural areas, and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed
producer prices and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic
smallholder subsector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale
plantations with outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut
palm. Rapid growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple,
palm and coconut oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which the Ivory
Coast is now the third largest producer in the world.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free trans-
ferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence abroad
which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary technical
skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country, and
the Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined
the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has recently
helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial
undertaking involving both French and English speaking countries in West
Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with neighboring coun-
tries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large
influx of unskilled labor from less well endowed Sahelian countries, par-
ticularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the
Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was 1.5 million, i.e. about 25
percent of the country's total population.
6.        The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to
grow rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six
times from 1960 to 1975. The trade balance during this period was positive
and amounted to 14 percent of export earnings. However, the deficit on
non-factor services, workers' remittances and direct investment income
has never allowed a surplus on the current account. The most noticeable
aspect of export earnings in recent years has been the high prices received
for coffee which increased by 60 percent in 1976 and a further 120 percent in
1977, and those for cocoa which increased by 20 percent in 1976 and a further
66 percent in 1977. Total exports receipts more than doubled from 1975 to
1977, when they reached approximately US$2.7 billion. However, merchandise
imports increased by 70 percent from 1975 to 1977 to US$2.2 billion, partly in
response to the import requirements of the increased public investment program
(see paragraph 7 below). The deficit on services and transfers also increased
at a rapid pace, amounting to more than US$800 million in 1977, but net
capital inflows of approximately US$500 million allowed a foreign exchange
reserve build-up of US$200 million.



7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt ser-
vice, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The level
of public investment is projected in the five-year plans (the current one
covers 1976-80) and implemented through a series of rolling three-year in-
vestment programs and annual investment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called
for public investment of about US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30 per-
cent of projected GDP (compared to 23 percent during 1971-75). The main
objectives stated in the Plan were to further increase production in devel-
oped regions, develop agriculture in poor Savannah areas, accelerate the
opening up of the southwest, and substantially increase social services.
During the last two years, however, public investment has increased substan-
tially beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as funds became available from
coffee and cocoa export receipts and as the country borrowed extensively
abroad. New investments were programmed to expand education and other social
services, to develop sugar production into a major industry, and for a var-
iety of projects in transportation, energy and other fields. State enter-
prises have played a substantial role in this expansion, especially in that
portion financed by external credit. The increased reliance on external
capital is reflected in total external debt (disbursed and undisbursed)
which stood at US$1.5 billion at end 1975, US$2.2 billion at end 1976, and
US$3.6 billion at end 1977. The implications of the sharp rise in exter-
nal public debt are discussed below (paras. 13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.        To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the access
to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with
existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the manage-
ment of the economy, and maintain a public investment program of appropriate
dimensions. Current government policies are directed with some success to
protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world market
prices and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agriculture
remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing in GDP
has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976. Within agri-
culture, the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a decline
of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 51 percent in 1976. In 1977, a year of very high coffee and cocoa
prices, these commodities' share of exports rose to 60 percent. As part of
a more balanced regional development policy, large infrastructure invest-
ments are underway in the southwest in an effort to develop access to that
potentially rich region.
9.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the north following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved



- 4 -
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment pro-
grams. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with
the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 per-
cent of total income.
10.       Progress in the Ivorianization of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of govern-
ment resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential
of the informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs
designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are being implemented at some cost.  The
development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yields decreasing
returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification is being
extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves may be
depleted in ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs are
started; the best opportunities for import substitution in industrial develop-
ment are becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments
in the potentially rich but sparsely populated southwest yield initially low
returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the north and other
poor rural areas involve long gestation periods. Finally, the direct and
indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program has
also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the exceptionally
large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabilization fund (equiv-
alent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still relies on external
credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of which comes from
private banks and suppliers. This represents a large increase from previous
years. The overall terms and conditions of external public debt are hardening,
reflecting increased reliance on commercial credit, and the grant element of
public and private lending to the public sector declined from 29 percent in
1969 to 8 percent in 1976. The increased costs of development, the larger
scale of investment now being undertaken and envisaged for the future and
the heavy reliance on foreign commercial credit to fund a major portion of
investment point to the necessity of measures to ensure that the limits of
absorptive capacity are not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not
strained.  The Government of the Ivory Coast is aware of the situation, and
the substantial decrease in external borrowing reported in the first half of
1978 is an encouraging sign of their response to it. Other recent measures
include a much stronger control by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement over
the state enterprises' borrowing and investment programs.



-5-
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more seLective in determining in-
vestment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the
medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and
an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective for the
eighties.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start
to yield substantial benefits and can later be expanded at reasonable eco-
nomic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protection
and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution in-
dustries, and there is scope for expansion of export oriented processing of
local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies of
income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to in-
crease agricultural productivity in the poorer north, and the promotion of
the informal sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises)
are fully compatible with sustained economic growth.
15.       It is unlikely that the high prices for coffee and cocoa will per-
sist and export earnings will probably be considerably less buoyant in the
near future than in the past two years despite some mitigating effects of
diversification into export products such as rubber, pineapples and indus-
trial products. Imports, however, have increased substantially and the large
deficit on services will remain as long as the country relies heavily on for-
eign factors of production. Thus pressures on the balance of payments will
remain. The size and financing of the public investment program will be a key
element in determining the extent of these pressures.
16.       The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new commit-
ments and indications are that the three-year public investment program
1979-81 will be essentially limited to available public savings plus offi-
cial development assistance. The aim is to carry out as much as possible
high-priority plan targets while achieving an external debt structure con-
sistent with the medium-term balance of payments prospects of the economy.
By these means it should be possible to keep the debt service ratio below
25 percent by the end of the decade, and maintain the country's creditworthi-
ness for borrowing on IBRD terms.
*           17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1977,
19 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 12 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 55 percent by the Bank Group), and 49 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 20 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA



- 6 -
(23 percent), Lebanon (5 percent), and Germany (3 percent). France and the
European Communities remain the principal source of development assistance
in grant form, accounting for about 3 percent of the flow of foreign assis-
tance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty-three loans totaling
US$449.3 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an
IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Fourteen of these thirty-four operations
have been for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and
coconut development. There were six road projects. The remaining fourteen
loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drain-
age system, water supply, urban development, tourism development, small-
and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project and a regional railway
project. IFC's participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel amounts to $423,500. IFC's Board also approved, in 1977, a 10
percent equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R.
Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the country. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which are encountering
problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector supporting the Government's new emphasis on small-
holder production, where the benefits will more readily be felt by the small
farmers. The first examples are the recently approved smallholder rubber
project and a rural development project in the northeast which is currently
being appraised. This change in policy also delayed the effectiveness of the
Bank's fourth oil palm loan which aims at preparing about 18,000 ha of indus-
trial estates. However, the institutional arrangements have now been final-
ized and the project is being re-evaluated. The Bank has also recently
appraised a project in the forestry sector, the third most important foreign
exchange earner of the Ivory Coast, aimed at developing 20,000 ha of planta-
tions and strengthening the institutions concerned.
20.       The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with the 1969
UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for
determining future priorities among transport investments.  Thus far the Bank
has financed six road projects totaling $123.3 million. The first project
was completed in December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal
estimates.  The OED report on this project dated June 28, 1977 recommended,
inter alia, that more emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This



- 7 -
had been picked up in the Third Highway Project. The second road project was
satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by
project modification and subsequent poor work organization for the construction
component. The Third and Fourth Highway Projects incurred substantial cost
overruns which the Government is covering; otherwise execution is proceeding
satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project approved in FY76 will contribute to
a further improvement of the primary road network of the country. A feeder
roads and highway maintenance project was approved in December 1977. The Bank
is also studying the possibility of extending a highway sector loan to the
Ivory Coast.  A railway project, focusing on the improvement of the Bouake-
Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of rolling
stock, technical assistance and training, was approved in FY78. A second
railway project to complete the rehabilitation from Petionara to Tafire is now
being prepared under the first project.
21.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the country
with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely associated
with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system, in particu-
lar, at the secondary and vocational levels. Both of the Bank's ongoing proj-
ects have been directed to this end. A third project is being appraised.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in FY1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation
in Abidjan. The Board has approved in FY1978 a second project which includes
the second phase of the program and studies for the third phase. An urban
development project whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's
low income housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. With
respect to the secondary centers, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary
centers water supply project. A secondary centers power distribution project
is being appraised.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises, which
is being followed up by the proposed project. The Bank Group also provided
support for medium-scale enterprises through another local development finance
company and a line of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance
in the tourism sector. A second tourism project is being appraised. In
June 1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the
CIMAO project which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory
Coast, and Togo.  CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the
production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$57 million annually in the 1973-78 period.  The average annual



- 8 -
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1977, stood at approximately 10.6 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 11 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, at present 3.6 percent, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent
in the early 1980's.
PART III - THE SECTOR
25.       The industrial sector, although representing only 13 percent of
GDP in 1976, is a very dynamic sector in the Ivory Coast. It has grown
in the first 15 years of independence at an annual rate of 15 percent in
real terms and it is expected to continue growing at a fast pace, despite
the fact that the most apparent import substitution investment opportunities
have already been taken up and an increasing shift to export industries will
be necessary. Public investment in industry is clearly secondary to private
investment. During the last five year plan (1971-75) gross public investment
in mining and industry represented about 10% of total investment in the
sector.  The same ratio is projected for the 1976-80 period.
26.       The Ivory Coast's industrial sector includes three components:
(1) a relatively small number of large, mostly foreign owned and managed
firms; (2) a larger number of medium and small size modern sector firms
which are increasingly Ivorian owned; and (3) a large, but uncounted, num-
ber of informal sector firms which are exclusively Ivorian or African owned.
The 1976 national accounts cover 1,790 firms of which 85 percent have assets
under $340,000 and fewer than 50 employees. Moreover, among these firms the
majority (over 62%) has assets under $45,000 and fewer than 10 employees.
Informal sector firms, i.e., those which do not follow formal accounting
practices, were studied in 1976 at the request of the Bank in connection
with the first small-scale enterprises project; the study shows that 15 to
20 percent of firms newly entering the modern sector are prosperous artisans.
27.       About two-thirds of Ivorian industry is located in Abidjan and
about 10 percent in the second largest city, Bouake. Although there are
reasons to decentralize industrial location, such as the proximity of pro-
cessing facilities to the source of raw materials or a better regional dis-
tribution of investments (which is increasingly possible owing to the ex-
panding transport infrastructure), it still makes sense in economic terms
(particularly for export industries) to invest in Abidjan. The Government
has consequently approached industrial decentralization carefully and has
not established fiscal incentives for regional industries.
28.       Despite an impressive growth of industrial employment (over 10 per-
cent per annum in 1973-76) it still constitutes a modest 25 percent of total
modern sector employment. The Ivory Coast has traditionally been a large



- 9 -
importer of industrial workers, including skilled Europeans and unskilled
workers from neighboring states. Data on gross unemployment is scanty, but
it appears that such unemployment as exists is concentrated in the urban
areas (particularly in Abidjan) and especially among the unskilled.
29.       At the beginning of 1975 foreign ownership comprised 60 percent
of the equity in manufacturing firms; three-quarters of the remainder repre-
sented Government equity and one-quarter private Ivorian. A similar situa-
tion exists in management where a substantial proportion of senior managers
(about 75 percent) is expatriate.
30.       The main objectives of the Government's industrial policy are:
(i) diversifying and expanding industrial activities; (ii) promoting export
oriented industries; (iii) generating employment and improving income dis-
tribution in the urban centers; (iv) increasing Ivorian participation in
capital and management of the sector; and (iv) decentralizing industrial
activities to the extent that it does not affect industrial efficiency.
A number of steps have already been taken to accomplish these goals, such
as increasing industrial credit facilities through the two development banks,
BIDI and CCI; assisting small Ivorian entrepreneurs through the Office for
the Promotion of Ivorian Enterprises (OPEI); setting up or expanding small
scale industries; promoting and supporting the creation of artisan firms
and the formation of artisan cooperatives; restricting the stock exchange
to Iyorians and taking government equity participations in firms either
directly or through an equity participation fund established for this pur-
pose; and concentrating Government's direct investments in, for example,
sugar mills, wood processing and canning, which give added value to locally
produced raw materials. The strengthening of the institutions executing
these policies is indispensable and the Government attaches a high priority to
it. Extensive technical assistance has been provided to OPEI (particularly
under French bilateral agreements and by UNIDO), and World Bank Group support
has been provided to the two development banks BIDI and CCI.
31.       Performance under the previous loans.  In July 1975, the Bank
made a loan of US$5.6 million to CCI to finance Ivorian small-scale enter-
prises. The first SSE project was designed to strengthen CCI as a financial
intermediary, to develop links with local commercial banks and to make term
resources available to small Ivorian businessmen. Under this project, CCI
finances with IBRD resources up to 60 percent of total investment or a maximum
of CFAF 40 million (US$163,200), of Ivorian owned enterprises in pre-identified
branches (baking, tailoring, woodworking, garages) with flexibility to finance
viable projects outside these branches. The financing plan is completed by
the Ivory Coast's commercial banks which finances 30 percent of total invest-
ment (for working capital); the balance (10 percent) being provided by the
promoter himself. Project promotion and follow-up is provided by OPEI.
32.       Project implementation suffered from a number of constraints.
Project effectiveness was delayed for a year pending resolution of a dis-
crepancy in interest rates between the BCEAO ceiling of 8.5 percent for small
enterprises, as defined by the Central Bank, and the negotiated rate of 12.5



- 10 -
percent. In the end, the difference between the two is made up by the Govern-
ment interest subsidy fund which ensures CCI an adequate spread. Other
constraints which have affected the project's performance have been the slow
rate of project processing by OPEI (which averaged only three projects a
month) and cumbersome procedures to move projects through the stages of
promotion, obtaining agreement by OPEI, CCI and commercial banks, and disburse-
ment. Nevertheless, progress has been made in expanding and strengthening
CCI's industrial development role and in providing integrated financial and
technical assistance to Ivorian entrepreneurs. Coordination among CCI,
commercial banks and promoters is now moving relatively smoothly. Finally,
the cost per job created (about $9,000) is significantly lower than the
average for the sector overall (about $26,000). It is expected that CCI would
have fully committed this first loan by the time the proposed second tranche
is effective.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project represents a continuation of the Bank's in-
volvement in small- and medium-scale enterprise financing in the Ivory Coast
which started with the first line of credit to CCI. It had been prepared by
CCI during implementation of the first project, with the assistance of the
Bank in the course of project supervision. The project was appraised in
May-June 1978, with a short follow-up mission in October 1978.  Loan negotia-
tions took place in Abidjan in January 10-12, 1979. The Ivorian delegation
was led by Mr. Leon Naka, Director General of Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement,
and included Mr. Rene Amichia, Director General of Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire.
The project is described in detail in Staff Appraisal Report No. 2223-IVC
dated February 12, 1979, and summarized at the beginning of this report.
Concept and Objectives
34.       The proposed project aims at improving the institutional setting
catering to the needs of SMEs in the Ivory Coast by strengthening CCI, the
local development bank specialized in lending to SMEs. It would also draw
lessons from the experience gathered in the first project and expand the
range of beneficiaries to include larger industrial borrowers, and informal
sector artisans. This project, which continues an important institution
building effort and provides resources for artisans and small- and medium-
scale entrepreneurs, would help CCI meet these objectives.
35.       The proposed Bank loan of $12.6 million would provide for:
(i) credit for the establishment and expansion of modern
sector small scale enterprises ($6 million);
(ii) credit for modern sector medium-scale enterprises
($5 million);
(iii)  credit for artisan's cooperatives ($1 million);
(iv) technical assistance for CCI ($600,000).
All firms supported by the project would be majority Ivorian owned.



-. 11 -
Description of the Project
36.       Small-Scale Component.  Out of the proceeds of the Bank loan, US$6
million would provide medium- and long-term financing for fixed investment
and permanent working capital in small-scale enterp-7ises. For purposes of
the project, small-scale enterprises will be defined as Ivorian-owned enter-
prises with total investments of CFAF 75.0 million (US$340,O000) or less.  As
in the first line of credit, project promotion and Eollow-up would be gen-
erally provided by OPEI. These projects would have a cost per job no higher
than the average of the first project, i.e. CFAF 2,000,000 ($9,000)(Section
2.02(a) of the Draft Loan Agreement). Among the sectors showing promising
market potential, CCI intends to be more active in civil works, transport and
wood processing.
37.       Medium-Scale Component.  Given its need to become more competitive
with the commercial banks, CCI asked the Bank that funds be provided for the
financing of economically sound medium-scale industrial projects. CCI's
promotional effort in this field began only recently. Nevertheless, based
on a preliminary pipeline reviewed during appraisal, CCI should be able to
promote about ten medium-scale industrial projects in a three-year commit-
ment period. These projects are expected to average a total investment cost
of CFAF 220 million (US$1 million), and would be mainly oriernted toward the
transformation of local resources. Among the projezts under consideration
by CCI are a tannery, a soap factory, a saw mill, a piggery, a dairy and a
label printing factory.
38.       Artisans Component.  Support to Ivorian artisans is the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Tourism. Training of artisans began some years ago
at various centers throughout the country. The Ministry now proposes to
establish four new regional artisanal promotion centers in Abengourou, Man,
Korhogo and Yamousoukro which would provide training, raw materials and
marketing services, and is in the process of developing ten artisan coopera-
tives throughout the Ivory Coast to produce handicrafts for both tourists and
the local market. The proposed investment cost for the cooperatives program,
not including expatriate technical assistance which is being secured by other
lenders, is US$2.5 million. Under the proposed project, a special fund for
artisans of US$1.0 million would be established in CCI to finance the invest-
ment and working capital of four artisan cooperative projects which are in an
advanced state of preparation. Cooperatives would employ a substantial amount
of female labor and would create employment in smaller towns at an average
cost per job of about $2,700.   These subprojects will be prepared by the
Ministry of Tourism in cooperation with CCI and shculd be replicable on a far
wider scale in the future.
39.       Technical Assistance to CCI.  In order to strengthen CCI's develop-
ment operations, US$600,000 would be allocated to finance the foreign exchange
cost of a technical assistance program which would include two components:
(1) $300,000 would be provided to finance various programs of advanced and
specialized financial training for CCI's staff; and (2) $300,000 for three
years to finance the foreign costs of an expatriate advisor experienced in
small- and medium-scale industry who will help supErvise more closely the
physical implementation of projects.



- 12 -
Implementation
40.       CCI would be in charge of implementing the project.  All subloans
would be subject to CCI appraisal. CCI has agreed to carry out calculations
of economic rates of return for all subprojects that it finances (Section
2.03(a) of the Draft Loan Agreement). The free limit for subloans to be
financed under the small-scale enterprises component would be CFAF 40 million
($180,000) up to an aggregate of CFAF 400 million ($1.8 million). There will
be no free limit for artisans and medium-scale subprojects, all of which will
have to be approved by the Bank. Technical assistance will be provided to
small and medium scale enterprises as and when needed by OPEI. CCI could
require a subborrower to obtain such assistance when deemed appropriate. The
coordination committee, set up under the first line of credit to review the
subprojects and which consists of representatives of CCI, OPEI and the com-
mercial banks, will be maintained for the small- and medium-scale subprojects.
41.       BIDI and CCI have traditionally concentrated on different borrow-
ers. BIDI's operations have been for mostly large-scale investments while
those of CCI have been for small. In order to preserve the integrity of
these operational spheres, both of which are being supported by the World
Bank Group, and to avoid undue competition between BIDI and CCI's growing
medium-scale activities, the proceeds of the loan would be used only for
subprojects with total investment under CFAF 300 million ($1.34 million)
(Section 1.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       CCI would be required to submit to the Bank regular operational
and financial reports. For CCI these requirements cover normal DFC infor-
mation including quarterly financial statements, arrears and resource posi-
tions, operations (approvals, commitments and disbursements) and annual
reports and audit. Operational reports will also be required on recruit-
ment and training. As in the first project, CCI's debt/equity ratio would
be limited to 8-1/3:1 (Section 4.06 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
43.       The project is expected to be implemented over a three-year period.
Costs and Financing
44.       Total project costs are estimated to be CFAF 4.3 billion (US$19.6
million) of which 65 percent or CFAF 2.8 billion (US$12.7 million) is for-
eign costs. The Bank's share in project financing would be US$12.6 million
(64 percent) or slightly less than the total foreign component. For credit
to small- and medium-scale enterprises, CCI's normal financing would comprise               a
80 percent of total project costs with the remainder representing owner's
equity. The Bank would finance the full amount of CCI's credit to small-scale
enterprises to provide an incentive for CCI to concentrate its efforts on this
sector. For credit to medium-scale enterprises the Bank would finance 50
percent of total project costs (roughly 62 percent of CCI's loan), which is
less than the estimated foreign exchange cost of the subprojects. CCI loans
to artisanal cooperatives would be financed entirely by the proposed loan and
would cover 90 percent of project cost. The remainder would be provided
(sometimes in kind) by members of the cooperatives. For the technical assis-
tance component the Bank would meet foreign costs up to US$300,000, the local
costs being met by CCI; the Bank would also finance the cost of training CCI
staff up to $300,000.



- 13 -
Relending Arrangements
45.       CCI's onlending rate for small and meditum-scale enter rise1 -'ould
be 12.5 percent including 1 percent to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA) to cover the foreign exchange risk which would be borne by the Govern-
ment (Section 3.01(c) of the Draft Loan Agreement). This interest rate is
within the range of CCI's rates (see para. 54 below) and will leave a satis-
factory spread to CCI. Domestic inflation has averaged about 10 percent in
the past three years in the Ivory Coast but is expected to drop to an annual
rate of 7 percent over the life of the sub-loans.
46.       The Ivory Coast, as a member of the Moneltary Union of West Africa,
has to comply with the Monetary Union's Central Bank (BCEAO) guidelines
and regulations. One of those regulations establishes a ceiling of 8.5
percent for the interest to be charged to "preferred borrowers." Among
"preferred borrowers" small-scale enterprises with outstanding debt under CFAF
20 million ($90,000) are included. Consequently, subloans to these borrowers
will carry an interest rate of 8.5 percent. This (lefinition of "preferred
borrowers" has not changed since 1975 and therefore the number of firms
eligible for this low rate is decreasing and is not likely to represent
more than 15 percent of the total subprojects. CCI will therefore have no
difficulty in subsidizing interest rates internally without recourse to the
subsidy fund used in the first project. Subloans to artisanal cooperatives
would be guaranteed by the Fonds de Garantie des Credits aux Entreprises
Ivoiriennes (FGCEI), a fund established by Government in 1968 to promote the
development of Ivorian enterprises by guaranteeing loans to such enterprises
(Section 3.04 of the Draft Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement
47.       The purchase of equipment and goods under the project is not suit-
able for international competitive bidding given the nature and small size of
subprojects to be financed and goods to be procured. CCI is expected to fol-
low local procurement procedures which are adequate to ensure that goods and
services are suitable and reasonably priced.
Disbursement
48.       Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(i) 100 percent of CCI's loans to small-scala enterprises and
artisans; and 50% of total investment cost of medium-scale
enterprises subprojects;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance;
and
(iii)  100 percent of expenditures for training CCI staff.
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI)
49.       CCI is a multipurpose development bank established in 1955 in
Abidjan.  It finances housing, industry, trade, artisans, hotels, consumer



- 14 -
durables and automobiles. It provides short-term (up to 2 years), medium-term
(2-10 years), and long-term (over 10 years) loans, makes equity participations
and gives guarantees to private or public corporations and individuals. CCI's
initial share capital of CFAF 200 million was gradually increased to CFAF 2
billion by May 1975. The Government is the major shareholder (82 percent).
The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) holds 9 percent and the
Banque Centrale (BCEAO) the remaining 9 percent.
50.       Organization and Management.  CCI's present organization comprises
a General Directorate and three major departments (Investment, Finance and
Administration). Project promotion, appraisal and supervision are handled
by the Investment Department which is also in charge of arrears collection.
CCI currently has five branch offices in Bouake, Korhogo, Abengourou, Daloa
and Man. The present Director General has been at CCI almost since its in-
ception. He is assisted by a Deputy Director General. As of June 1978, the
total staff of CCI including the branch offices amounted to 214 of which 33
are professionals. The professional staff is generally well trained academi-
cally, but has limited experience and is thinly spread. At present, there are
eight expatriates employed by CCI, including three working in computing
activities.
51.       Training.  There is presently no internal training program in CCI
and external training takes place on an ad hoc basis. There is, moreover,
a definite need in CCI for building up financial and managerial skills of
its existing staff and for training new staff. This is particularly true
as CCI intends to broaden the scope of its activities to compete more effec-
tively with commercial banks. CCI has asked for Bank help in developing an
internal training program and in arranging for outside training of junior
professionals in financial analysis, accounting and computing activities.
52.       Policies and Operating Guidelines and Procedures.  CCI's operating
guidelines were revised in May 1975 to incorporate modifications regarding
appraisal criteria, exposure limits, financial policy and staff development
which were suggested during appraisal of the first SSE project. Equity in-
vestments are limited to 25 percent of a company's share capital or 25 per-
cent of CCI's net worth, whichever is lower. CCI's total exposure in a
single company cannot exceed 25 percent of CCI's net worth or 80 percent
of project cost. Exceptions can be made for loans guaranteed by the Gov-
ernment. These limits are satisfactory.
53.       SME projects are handled by the Credit Division of the Investment
Department.  Appraisals of projects are generally satisfactory and are com-
plemented by site visits during project implementation. Nevertheless, fol-
low-up after disbursements is generally limited owing to staffing constraints.
CCI recognized the need to improve in this area and CCI's Investment Depart-
ment has recently recruited a professional, currently being trained, who
will be in charge of SME project supervision. CCI's procedures for pro-
curement and disbursenents are adequate.
54.       Interest Rates.  In accordance with BCEAO guidelines, CCI's inter-
est rates on medium- and long-term loans now range from 6.5 to 13.0 percent
and from 8.5 to 13.0 percent on short-term credits. Rates on the existing



- 15 -
portfolio range from 5.5 percent to 13.0 percent. Deposit rates range from
2 percent to 9.0 percent. In keeping with BCEAO guidelines mentioned above,
loans to artisans and very small enterprises carry an interest rate of 8.5
percent.
55.       Resources and Operations.  The bulk of CCI's resources have come
from BCEAO rediscount, term borrowings from CAA and CCCE and term deposits
from Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (CNPS) and Caisse de Stabilisa-
tion des Prix des Productions Agricoles (CSPPA). CCI has also received fi-
nancing from USAID through the USAID/Conseil de l'Entente African Enterprise
Program and two lines of credit from the Bank; one for Tourism (US$9.7 million)
and the other for SSE (US$5.6 million), both in 1975.
56.       The level of CCI's annual financing operations increased from
CFAF 5.4 billion in FY 1973 to CFAF 16.0 billion in FY 1977. Over the last
ten years lending for housing has been decreasing somewhat while credits
to industrial enterprises have increased significantly. Lending for con-
sumer durables has been irregular while vehicle financing has increased
sharply, including in particular credit to small Ivorian trucking firms.
57.       Arrears.  At the end of FY77, CFAF 2.1 billion ($9.5 million) of
principal and interest due was in arrears. Of this amount CFAF 1.2 billion,
or 4.8% of the outstanding portfolio, was due for over six months. The
largest part of accounts in arrears (80%) affects housing loans, for which
security is good. There are no arrears on industrial loans, and very few on
automobile and consumer durable loans. It is clear, nonetheless, that CCI's
record management system for arrears requires extensive improvement. CCI's
management is well aware of this, as are CCI's auditors, and both have agreed
to work towards the implementation of a new system which will, inter alia,
distinguish between principal and interest in arrears and by age of arrears.
58.       Provisions.  Provisions against doubtful loans amounted to CFAF 730
million at the end of FY 1977 and CFAF 7.0 million for equity investments.
Specific provisions covered over 60% of loans in arrears in excess of six
months. In addition, there are three separate internal guarantee funds
totalling CFAF 911 million which provide additional amounts to cover possible
loan losses for automobiles, consumer durables and small-scale enterprises.
Finally, a provision for general risks is made each year (see para. 59).
This account amounted to CFAF 921 million in 1977. Based on this, and a
review of selected accounts outstanding, CCI's auditors concluded that the
level of provisions is adequate. The Bank concurs with this view.
59.       CCI's financial position is sound.  Assets reached CFAF 29.7 bil-
lion as of December 31, 1977, over a two-fold increase since 1973. The term
debt equity ratio stood at about 5.1:1 as of end 1977, well below the 8 1/3:1
ratio agreed to under the first SSE line of credit. As a public institution
which is not expected to pay dividends, CCI is not concerned to show a profit
after provisions but tries to maintain a solid balance sheet; thus gross
profit in excess of a nominal level is transferred to a tax-free general
reserve account.



- 16 -
60.       Prospects.  CCI's pipeline of medium-scale industrial projects
consists of over 12 projects requiring a total of about $10 million in
financing from CCI. Of these projects, six to eight requiring about $3
million in financing would qualify as medium-scale investments under the
project. The remaining $2 million allocated to medium-scale projects would be
committed to projects to be identified. In order to meet its projected
operations, CCI will have to mobilize about CFAF 18 billion ($81 million) in
the next five years. The proposed loan will cover about 15 percent of this.
The balance will continue to be provided by advances from BCEAO, CAA and CCCE,
plus an anticipated increase in CCI's capital.
Benefits and Justification
61.       The project will provide for the continuation and the improvement
of the actions in favor of small-scale Ivorian enterprises undertaken in
the first line of credit. It will also set up a scheme for the financing
of artisans which is expected to be replicable on a larger scale in the near
future and will help CCI broaden its clientele toward medium-size firms.
The project will reinforce CCI's appraisal capability through technical
advice and staff training. By providing financing for medium-scale proj-
ects it will allow CCI to diversify its activities and strengthen its posi-
tion in the financial community.
62.       In terms of investments the project is expected to support about
37 small-scale projects representing investments of CFAF 1,650 billion (US$7.5
million), about 10 medium-scale projects representing investments of CFAF
2,200 billion (US$10.0 million), and four artisan cooperatives representing
investments of CFAF 276 million (US$1.2 million). These investments will
generate direct employment for about 2,300 persons at a cost, particularly for
small-scale enterprises and artisans, far below the industrial average. An
interesting feature of the project will be the creation through the artisan
component of approximately 100 jobs for women potters at a cost of approxi-
mately $1,000 per job. Indirect employment effects, while not measured, will
also be important.
Risks
63.       In designing this project, full account has been taken of the
lessons learned from the first project, thereby reducing the risk that proj-
ect benefits may not be realized as expected. However, the project will
still face two risks. First, with respect to the artisan component there
is a possibility that the implementation of the proposed program will be
slower than envisaged, due to a lack of familiarity of artisans with the
formal circuits of credit and of CCI with this new type of operation. The
grouping of artisans into cooperatives with the help of the Ministry of
Tourism should reduce this potential risk. Second, for the small-scale
component the establishment of a target for cost of job creation will entail
an additional burden for OPEI and CCI in the promotion of these projects.
However, OPEI and CCI recognize the interest of this feature and have agreed
to meet the proposed target.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank,-,id Credit de la Cote
d'Ivoire, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory
Coast and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
65.       The draft Agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for
loans to development finance companies. Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 12, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 18-                                                 ANNEX 1
IVOR CIlUS - SOCIAL IIIDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST                                            /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            332.0                                                 SAME         SAIME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     171.2                               1D0T RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  /     1970 k ESTIDMT          REGION Le  bROUP /d   GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 190.0       380.0    710.0            223.6      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     76.0       228.0    366.0             86.7      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        3.9         5.4       7.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 21.8 Lf     28.0      34.3            13.6       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       12.0        16.0      22.0            18.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    23.0         32.0      43.0            53.6       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.7 14     42.5      43.1             44.4       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        53.7 1g.h  54.8       54.0            52.7        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.6 liak    2.7       2.9              2.8        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4          3.4 Li   4.2 Li           2.6        2.5         1.6
URBAN                             10.6 /1      8.7       9.9             5.8        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         46.1      45.6            46.9       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.4         23.3      20.6            20.6       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2 /11j   3.1        3.1             3.1        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WMON)   ..           ..        ..              2.5       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEf OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            59.5        100.0    113.7             94.2      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  94.0        114.0    113.0             90.1      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         52.0        60.0      64.5             55.2       63.0        77.7
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..         18.0 /   21.4             17.1       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         ..        ..              ..         8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9        41.0      43.5            43.7       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          138.0 14       *.       --            138.4       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       44.0        ..             22.4       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        98.0       ..             66.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..        29.0       ..             10.4       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         5.0       ..             23.9       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..        23.0       ..             70.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..            14.2       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         25480.0/n   15320.0   15760.0         21757.5     2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PEE NURSING PERSON     2210.0&o  2830.O/D  1970.0            3473.8    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               *-      1150.0   1240.0            645.4      493.9       275.4
URBAN                               ..       250.0        ..           172.9      229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..      1650.0        ..          1292.6    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ,.            19.2       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..         ..             4.9        5.2         3.9
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..             5.0        5.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             4.7        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOf
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              2.5 ft       ..        ..              ..        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              1.0 LI       ..        ..              ..       64.1        59.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       67.8         78.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       34.1        12.5



-19-                                            ANNEX 1
lV.ORY CAST - SOCCAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERGES
IVORY COAST                    ML
- 21055 REGRET ESTIMAE)
SAME       SAYE     NEXT HIGHER
9DST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
*                      PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 46.0        76.0      63.0            52.1       99.8        97.6
FEKALE               24.0        55.0      48.0            37.6       93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 2.0        11.0      17.0             8.0       33.8        47.8
FEMALE                1.0         5.0       8.0             5.0       29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 13.0         7.0      6.0             7.2        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          41.0        45.0      44.0            43.2       34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           ..       21.0      23.0            22.8       22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       9.0 /f     20.0        ..            20.3        71.8        96.3
CONSIIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        10.0        .-              3.9       12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        17.0        17.0       ..            40.1       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         *-         8.0        *-             2.2       28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND P0FULATION                 2.0        10.0       5.0             3.9       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  ..          ..        ..              1.2       4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1900.0 /r   2600.0   2900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 44.0 /r     43.8      43.8            32.6       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            86.0        82.0      80.0            73.3       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                2.1         2.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              55.6        53.4      51.6            42.0       33.8        33.7
MALE                               61.4        59.4      57.7            54.8        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                             49.6        47.3      45.5            27.3       17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1        0.9        1.0             1.2        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9 /        ..       ..             25.7       23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.8 /s      ..      50.0 /E         55.1       52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6 /s      .-       9.0 /8          5.8        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5 /        .      20.0 Is         14.5        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..            108.8      191.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      96.0            74.1       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    203.0             124.4      319.8       448.8
RURAL                               ..         ..    134.0             59.6       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       20.0            26.8       19.8        23.2
RURAL                              ..          ..      30.0            47.6        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data snd is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  Le  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1965;  Ia  1957-58;  /h  Age 15-59 years and 60 and
over reapectively;   /i Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural
increase;  /1  1955-65;  /k  1965-70;  LI African Population only;  /in  1964-66;  /n  1963;  /o In-
cluding midwives and assistant midwives;  /1  Government only, including midwives;  /q  1956-57;
/   1964;  Ls Population.
September, 1978



-20 -                                                                      ANNEX 1
IFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
*Sc:  I'he acJusted group aver.ges for each indicator are  copulation-weighted geometric means, excluhing the extreno values of the Indicator and rhe most
populated court>; In eacn group.  Cov.rage ci  vurercios among the indicators depends cm availabiliry of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages fur Capital Surplus Oil Expo-teL- and indicators of acceas to water and excreta disposal, housing, income  distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ki)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total  urba. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, asd rural) divided by their reepectrve number of hospital beds
AgricuLtursl - Most recent estimate of agricoltoral area used temporarily                   available in public cnd private  cre--          ''        irend hospital and rc-
or permanently for crops,  astures, market aod kitchen gardens or to                      habilitatio- centers.  Haspitalo are          .     . ..  permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments pro-lcing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, Inclmde heslth and bedi-
IN? PER CAPITA (US) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlrs (1975-77 basis);                  isrtant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which uffen in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total ourber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY GiN5`MPTIDN PER CAPTA - Annual  cu-sumptioo  if commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the .nhbet of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average site of household (persons per householjj_-_ total,  rban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals wh  share liviing quarters
Total population, mid-vear (millions) - As of July 1; if nct available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban ppulato, (p erentof total)  - Ratio of urban to total popula-                         hold vary.
tion; di  rent definitions of orban areas nay affect comparability                      Average number of persons per room - t_a I-bna  sod ru-rl - Average n-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persona per noon in all, urban, and rural occupiel conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectivels.  Dwellings esclude so.-permanent structures and
P er  ns5. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  uncocupied parts.
Of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwtllingsr -_total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity tn living quacters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yease  and over) as parceDtages  of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (pmccent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates cf total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as pnrcentages cf vcnpeotlvely primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes childrer ag;. 6-1 y-ars but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary edC-ct  U:;: for C -rotries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year orithbsetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment nay exceed IO0 per,vov ci-Iconove pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       abovn the official school age.
Crude death rate (per cheuarnd) - A nnua  deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Cenputed ai shove; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 und 1970                     tic. requires at leant four yearn of approvod primary instruction; peo-
and five-year average ending in 1975 ior most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training inotruotio... for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average nu.ber of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corresposdence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experierces present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other prcgrams which operate independently
Family plannIng - acceptors. annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondarv institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided hy numbers of teachers in the carre-
Family planning - usrs (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (1i-64 years) who use birth-ccntrol                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age groap.                                           a percentage of total adult population uged '5 yearn and ever.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production pe-apita  (lO7O-ll0)     Index number of per                    Passenger oars (per thousand ponpultion) - Paaesger cars cprise motor car
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                       seating less than eight persons; eocluden ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (ercent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food sapplies availabl  in cou.cry per capita               Radio  -eceivers (per thousand population) - All typoe of roesivara for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thouoand of popolation; excludes unlicensed
ptpbrto, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exrlude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years vhes regintrati-o  of radio nets was in
quantities used in food processing, and lon.es in diotribu.ton.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not he corparable nince moat countries
quirements were estimated by FAl based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
m1 activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - IV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age end sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; ecciudes oslice.ned TV receivers in cous-
cent for waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supplv of protein (grams per day) - Prcin content of per                      Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of,fo.d is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined au a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording gcnerol news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at leant foor timec a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance p_e capita per  -rr - iased on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein. and                    sold during the year, includIng afruios_los cc drIve-cn cioemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supplv from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPILOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Ecooomically active persons. including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but e-cladiog houneweve-  students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to childrem In this age group.                                tiots in various countries are  -ot       s'"hI
Female             - Female labre  f-vco  a, p----           tot-l labor force,
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculcure (percent) - labor force          arcs> c. ar.ig--  .rest-. ,  lor-t ing and fishing
Life nape_t ay, at birt(yearsp    - Averago  cnto:  of yearn of life                        as percentage of cocal labor forc.
re.aoling us birth;  .u.ally live-coor a-erages ending iv  i963, 19,0,                Industry (percent) - Lauoc force lv. ni ra               clan, sanufacruring and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas au percentage rf tctu:; l.vr f--ce.
infant mortalIt  rate  pr thousard) - 4n.ual datho of In.fants under                    Porticipation rate (percent) -_total  vle  arc  eemg   - ^rtca], male, and
ens year of age per thousand  lre hrl-hts.                                                'esale labor force as percentagec of rho>   cscccrfv,
Accs tp safe outer (percent of popula n  - toa    ra.  and ral                              These are IL's adjusted pacticipatoun voirz verc.-acg cot-sec
Number of "ople  (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable sccess to                      str-ctore of the popitlatior. and  cng *ine O-,-d.
safe water supply (itcludes treated surface wate.s or untreated bht                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of popular.o- cnder i5            65 d 6  sd aver to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group cf 15-64 yeaos.
and sanitary weils) an percentages of their respective populations.
In as urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOiME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 mactrs fromi a hoase  may be considered as being within rea-                 Perctnenta   of private income (both in cauh and bind) received by tichest 5
sonable access of that house.  .n rural areas re.aonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and porest 4G percent
imply that rho houcowifc or  -cober- of the household do not have to                     of ioeholds.
p-end a dispropor-ti-rate pur  of che day in fetching the family's
vater oreds.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROrPs
_oo esc.stoc 0000 ocuecual  oeeccc  ccusio)-  totalX urban, and                         Estimated absolute povor icoco level ilhi per cadret) - urban and rural -
ranal - Number of people (total,  -rbao, a-- rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty incom.e ievl is that ltcome level belaw which a minimal
disposal as porcentages of their respective popalations.  E-reta                         nutritionally adequate diet pln  esesntial nco-foud requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordabl.
treatmsnt, of human excreta and waste-water ho water-borne systems                    Eitimated reltive  1o-ert  income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar il,tallati-cs.                                     Relative poverty income level is that inceme level less than one-third
Population oer ohbseulloc - Pcpulation divided by aumb-r of practicing                      per capita personal incone of the  -cuntry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population Per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greeter.
assistant nurses.
Economic and  Docial Data Division
Eccnomic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
-21-
EOlOMIN  D5VELO}NT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dolles)
Actual                       Projected            1965-  1976 -   1978 -  1985         195     17-91
1965     1970     19,76       P97      - t905    1        976    1978      1985     1990      1965    1976    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
3-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & Eachange Rates       Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of anY
Gross Domestic Product            1041     1479     2245        2622     39845404            7.2     8.1      6.2       6.3    105.9   103.6   109.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)       A8 -0            -           -28     -341    -                    .         .        .      -9          f    -69.4
Gross Domestic Income                8     1509     25                      94   484         7.5      9    .4   5.      0 5.9    100010   100.0   19
Import (si. NFS)                   348      570      826         974     1210    1472        8.2     8.6      3.1       4.0     35.4   38.1    33.2
*  Exports   "  (import capacity)   26 2     88     -810        -7      -1205   -1585        7.6     9.9       3.0      5.6     36.8    37.4    33.1
Resource Gap                       -1       -11       1           -5        5    -113         *.1W                                       0.7      0.1
Consumption Expenditures           785     1162     1661        1795     2440    3098        7.1     4.0      4.5       4.9     79.9   76.6    67.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    184       329      522         795     1208    1638       10.0    23.4      6.2       6.3     18.7    24.1    33.2
Domestic Savings                   198      347      506         799     1203    1751        8.9    25.6      6.o       7.8     20.1    23.3    33.0
National Savings                   138      271      406         672     1005    1527       10.3    28.7      5.9       8.7     14.0    18.7    27.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                     61      111      417         870     1643    1933       21.1    44.0      9.5       3.2     23.9    28.1    41.8
Intermediate goods maLfuels)    41         85      250         347      588    1727       17.8   17.6       7.8      14.0     16.1    14.2    15.0
Foals and related materials       13       18      168         186      210     617       29.5     5.4      1.7      19.2      5.1    11.3      5.4
of which:  Petroleum             4       14      142         170      190     580       43.0     9.4      3.4     19.0       1.6     9.6      4.8
Consul mion  o    tds    -c .f218L                                     I ip   2           17.2     2.    12.0    11.9         54  c 6 Q4f7 A
TotaljM#ereh. iiports (eif)      255      432     1484        2073     3323    6872       19.2    18.0     Th        11.9    100.0  100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (c:L. fuels)    246      394     1365        1918     2525    3984       16.8   18.6       4.5       8.6     86.o    78.4    64.9
Foels and related materials       -         3       63          70       79     113         *      5.6      1.7       7.5      -       3.6      2.0
of which:  Petroleum            -         3       63          70       79     113         '      5.6      1.7      7.5       -      (3.6)   (2.0)
Manufactured goods                40    .ooQQ     .4           414    i3R,    z3z         22.8    14.4     17.7      12.1    1lh.     18,0   .32
Total Merch. Exports (fob)      286       497     1742        240S     4)41    6475       !7:W    I7Thw     77    V7:    100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 197-69 -  100
Export Price Index               79       104      218        276       338     448      10.7   12.3        3.4      5.8
Imuport  Price Index             91        99      239        284       434     605      10.1     8.7       6.2      6.9
Terms of Trade Index             86       105       91         97        78      74       o.6      3.6     -2.8     -1.1
Exports Volume Index             89       114      181        206       :316    437       7.3     6.7       6.3      6.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1967- 6o Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     365       426      550        600       753     881       4.2     4.6       3.6      3.2     35.1    25.0      18.9
Industry and Mining             173      287       465        535      841    1156       10.4     7.4      6.7       6.5     16.6    21.3      21.1
Servic                           03      766      12+0       1487     2300       67                .          0      71      4.       ll       6.
Total~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14-9                2           -2 ~~2                                         .       7.1     48__3    53 _760_
1ervice         A7        66A 1487  225  22  5                           7. 0   6,2    100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                    As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                213      297       587        606      970    1226        7.6     1.6       7.0      6.2     21.6    27.1      26.6
Current Expenditures            1        2         177        425      680    1027        9.2     6.3      7.0      6.2      15.8    17.2     18.7
BugtaySaigs5  75  214       6181      7S290   199      13.9   -8.7        7.0    -7.0        5.9     9.9      8.0
Other Public Sector              24       75       154        605      382     655       20.0   100.0     -6.8     11.4       2.4     7.1     10.5
Public Sector Investment         90      158       368        786      672     854       15.1    47.0     -2.3       5.0      9.2    17.0     i8.4
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                  Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.       DETAIL ON                              At end 1975  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)            1965    19276      19       1978    192,         PUBLIC SECTOR
Education                              17.9    37.7       37.0     37.0    37.0        INVESTMENT PROGRAM                           (1976-80)
Other Social Servies                   10 .4    13.0      11.5     10.8    10.5        Social Sectors                        1716           26
Agriculture                             4.6     2.9        3.3      3.0     3.0        Agriculture                           2046           31
Giber Economic Services                16.5    19.0      20.5      17.2    17.0        Industry and Mining                    3305
Administration and Defense             37.0    21.6      21.0    20.2    19.5          Power                                  726           11
other                                  13.6     58        6.7      ll   13,0           Transpcrt and communications          1518           23
Total Current Expenditures            100.0   100.0     100.0    100.0  100.0          Other                                 ?2644
Total Expenditures                   6600          100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1960-      1965-   1970-   1973-        FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           1965      1970      1975    1978
Average ICOR                                      1 8       2,6       3 7                   Public Sector Savings              3894           59
Import Elasticity                                  . 8      1.4      0.9     2.0            Progra      j aid counterpart       -
Marginal Natestic Savirgs Rate                    0.18      0.22     0.30    0.25           Foreign Project Aid                2706          41.
Marginal NatioEnall sSavinLgs Rate                0.12      0.16     0.24    0.20           Total Financing                    6600         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                               Total Labor Forno                               Value Added Per Worker (1967-60   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WOBEER                In Millions       ,% of Total          19 65 -73        In U.S.Dollars      Percent of Average       1965-73
19 65      19 73   19 65     19 ii    Growth Rate         19 65     19 7R       19 .;    19 73      Growth Rate
Agriculture                   1743        2093    85.7       82.9          3.2             209       215       40.4       30.6         0.3
Industry                       143         234      7.6       9.2         6.4            1210       1513      234.o     215.2         -1.0
Service                        127         201     6.7        8.0         5               3963      4835      764.6    687.8           2.6
Total                         2013        2528   100.0      100.0         -.7             517        703      10.o      10l0.0         3.9
not applicable       - n11 Or negligible
not available       -- less than half the
smallest unit shown



ANNEX 7
-22-
kANCZ OF P             rUSvNE  ASSISTANCE AND DENT
(azusonte in =il1.asa oi' 1U.S. dolars at current pdrcee
Avg. Annual
Actual 7Etiosated                                                                Pro le-ted                            Yovwth Rate
Tm           197                       TM 17          197            iZW           i197         1980        U19            192                        19'296
3-JMAR7Y BALANCE OP PAY77TS
Exports (incl. NFS)                          987         1428         1480          1935          2529            2931         2979         3293          3627         4011          4467           10.0
T=ports (i.ncl. ZS)                         1041          30z6        1591         197            2161            3145         2980         3310          o24         _S            4
Resource I517~-M<)           -           542 -311                                      1      368            -  -    3     1 -2         -17                    3                   859
Interest (ne t-33                                         -38          -56           -50           -84            -11         -151         -190          -226         -            -307             4.
Direct 1,-eeft-t lncome                      -64          -53           -83          -Go          -215            -12C         -100         -120          -34.         -051          -109
Worker' R-eittance                          -223         -139          -163         -170          -347            -290         -290          -290         -306          -333          349 9
klst  Nfm. (not)5                                                        21           40             35             25           25            30           34            39           42            9.1
3alance -219   Cur                                                    r r-                        --t  4                      -2 2                                                 =  -b
Private Direct I.ove sctwt                    48           29            29           50             50             60           70            8o           90           130          L12            i4.4
Ofricial Capital Grants                       17           15            19           17            20              20           20            PO           20            20           20               2
Public 962.7 loans
Dtsburssernt                               228          218          326           355           785             897          987         1078          1198         1212         113             i4.6
-Rec2ayentt s                                46          _81          -go90       -109           -243           -189          -403         -524          -6o7         -677          -'7e           '1.9
R3et Theburseffisets                         184 i41                            24          5 5 42                 708 583                    553 57
Other MhLT loan'/
Disburseomerts
-RepaNsests                                              ---
Net Di5burrements                                          ,,           ,, .,                                        o             O            T            0             O
Act-a I                      e tietead
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                  -21            28           51           -3          -170                                            1973            Act9 al           9977
Change in Nst Reserree                        10           -87          178          -38           -199         DENT AND DEBT SE9VICE
GRANT AND LOAN CONNITMEMrS                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Public Debt Out. & Disbured    573  236        )6 3      1223,        1969
GRANT AND LOAN+ OOThflENTS
Offiicial lats & Grant-like                   15            19           17           20                          Interest on Public Debt            20         32         56         66           104
RepaYments on Public Debt        7I4         77          1         I 01         187
'..b1r' MIlT Ione                                                                                                 Total Public Dobt Sc-et-           '2        113        12"        175,         290
1312.e 7M,LT Loans                           8           28          134            48            88            Otier Debt Serrice (t)                      1             2          2            0
11A                                          9            2             0            I             I            Teta1 Debt 0eeco-  (cet)                     12        14           7           290
biher Mltllaterul                          37           34            6            28            30         burden  o Export Earningt  (c
2.oterneent                                21           47            51          121           170
-cupp-                                     73           89          169           169           420            Public Debt Servce 2i                                   10           91
Th,.sccl.alncxl u rn.ictiano    n         s ..          ....          ... 119  131  87  484    1l92             Total Debt S irvl,e                  t 9                 10          3           11
'9n22                                       9            0            0             0             0 oTDSDirect L-ntes. Inc.                                4I          1           I            04
uNlbc  ->222 n.e.i.                         0             0                        0              0
0-ta I P+iic ivwt I'- t U                    275          32t   446                 91900 A                    v-erage Terse of Public  Debt
Actual Debt Ontetacding ou Dsz. 31   Del77                        It. as 9 Prior Year DOhD         4.3        5.2 -                  5.t          8.8
IXIERTAL DEBT                                      Disbrd Ill                    FPer It                            Amort. as B Prior Yes  DO&D   7.7           1D.5        2.1.        3.2         15.9
-no1i0 bank                                           1203
IDA                                                     6.7                       0 3                           iSIn Debt Out. & Disbur-ed
Dth.ir  tltiiaterol                                   104.6                        5.3                            1  as % Public Debt OhD           5.0        6.7        7.7         7.5          6.4
ioverrmentsc                                          378.1                      19.2                                   % as 9 Public Debt Ser-ice    3. -    2.6        4.2         4.3          3.6
.un .liers                                            397.3                       20.2
Fiztancial Los ;ituti-cc                              942.3                       47.9                          IDA Debt Ott. & DiSbureed
Bn-d,                                                  19.2                        1.0                           "  ae % Public Debt OlD             -          -         2.9        0.3          0.2
Public rebts n.e.i                                      8.8                        0.0                                 % ae 9 Public Debt Semrise    -          -          -         0.1           --
Total Public MhLT Debt                               1968.5                      10.8
Other -1hT Debts
Short-term Debt (dieb, Onll')
act applinalle                                                       e  cltf temtet                                -1 includei in Public M7T Lo-s
..noat avalnable                                                     -  nil or negligible
not available separately                                            --  leacs tba. half the
but ircluded ia total                                                   smellest uict shown                                                                                    Sep-cmber 1978



- 23 -                        ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1978)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose          Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                               7.5
Twelve        Loans  Fully Disbursed                     64.7
686-IVC       1970   Ivory Coast        Cocoa             5.3                   0.5
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast        Highways II      20.5                   0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast        Highways III    17.5                    0.9
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-         17.4                  14.9
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II         20.0                  11.4
1076-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Abidjan           9.0                   1.7
Sewerage
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton           31.0                  21.3
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism           9.7                   7.0
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Education II      5.0                   1.0
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V       43.0                   9.4
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC               5.6                   4.7
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC               8.0                   6.4
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.       30.0                  21.4
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.       14.0                   9.9
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM            Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                  20.0
1484-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                   15.0
1490-IVC      1978   RAN                Railway          23.0                  23.0
1501-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                   29.0
1575-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Rubber II        20.0                  20.0
1577-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                  33.0
1633-IVC/1   1979   Ivory Coast         Rubber III        7.6                   7.6
TOTAL                                        449.3      7.5        258.3
of which has been repaid                16.0       -
TOTAL now outstanding                        433.3      7.5
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid        3.0       2.1       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                431.2     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                            258.3      0.0        258.3
/1   Not yet effective.



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1978)
Type of                US Dollars
Year     Obligor                         Business        Loan      Equity    Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne               Industrial        -      204,000   204,000
de Developpement             Development
Industriel                   Bank
1978     do.                            do.                       219,500   219,500
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles                  884,700   884,700
Total gross commitments                          -    1,308,200 1,308,200
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                      -          -         -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                   _      1,308,200 1,308,200
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project was the first Bank's involvement in highway maintenance in the
Ivory Coast. The maintenance and betterment programs were successfully
completed in May 1977. The training and technical assistance programs were
being carried out under the Feeder Roads and Maintenance Project (Loan No.
1501), which continues the maintenance program undertaken under this project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate
the cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out
its expanded investment program.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project includes: establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. Repayment of loans to farmers under the project will start in 1978
only; however, as repayment performance of farmers' loans under the first
project has been unsatisfactory, a study to propose improvements of the
existing credit system is under consideration. Since 1976, the financial
situation of SATMACI has been unsatisfactory, as a result of administrative
delays in the payment of Government's contributions. The situation is being
supervised closely by RMWA.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. Project costs are expected to be close to
appraisal estimates.  The Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector's financial
situation is satisfactory.



-26 -                        ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications. A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency
should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is expected
to be fully committed by mid-1979.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project is almost completed. The two primary teacher training institututes
which were constructed under the project are in use and most of the improvements
to urban vocational training centers have been made. Studies have been completed
on regional education needs, educational T.V., personnel management, and secondary
school inventories; other studies to be financed under the project are under way.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Initial commitments by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial
intermediary, have been slow. However, the line of credit is now 54 percent
committed and sub-projects for an additional 25 percent are currently being
reviewed by the Bank.   Project execution is now satisfactory.



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297          CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: April 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Procurement is over 95% complete. Overall progress of the industrial complex
is about six months late, due to a delay in civil works, resulting in a civil
works base-cost overrun of about 25%. Available financing is still expected
to cover all capital cost requirements. Execution of the infrastructure
component is generally on time; except for a slight delay in the electric
power component and construction of one of the townships. Neither component,
though, is likely to seriously hamper the overall progress of the Project.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Effectiveness was delayed until March 9, 1978 mostly due to slow administra-
tive procedures. Now the execution of the project is progressing satisfac-
torily. Although many of the project components, such as sewerage and high-
way contruction works, studies and technical assistance have already started
with Government prefinancing, overall project execution is about six months
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1382 1/       Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1484          Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490          Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although effectiveness of the loan was delayed, procurement is well advanced
and the proejct is expected to be completed on schedule.
1/   Not yet effective.



-28 -                         ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1501          Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575 1/       Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Ln. No. 1577 1/       Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Ln. No. 1633 1/       SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -                         ANNEX III
ARTISANS, SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification                      December 1977
(b)  Appraisal Mission                          May 1978
(c)  Post Appraisal Mission                      October 1978
(d)  Negotiations                               January 10-12, 1979
(e)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                 May 1979
Section II
Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III
1.   Special conditions in the Loan Agreement are:
(a) On-lending interest rate to sub-borrowers would be 12.5
percent except for small sub-borrowers with less than
CFAF 20,000,000 of debt which would pay 8.5 percent
(para. 45);
(b) The foreign exchange risk would be borne by Government
for a fee of 1 percent per annum payable to CAA (para. 45);
(c) Subloans would be restricted to majority Ivorian owned
enterprises (para. 35);
(d) CCI would undertake calculation of economic rates of return
for all subprojects (para. 40);
(e) Promotion of small-scale projects would be limited to those
which have a cost per job below CFAF 2,000,000 (para. 36);
(f) Loans to medium-scale enterprises would not finance investments
above CFAF 300 million (para. 41).
2.  A special condition of theGuarantee Agreement is that loans to artisanal
cooperatives would be guaranteed by the Fonds de Garantie (para. 46);



