CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1663 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Artisanal, Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
Dated June 15, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1663 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a banking institution established and operating under the laws of
the Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the Guar-
antor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment Enterprise" means either (i) an enterprise
with total assets (including assets generated by an Investment
Project) not exceeding CFAF75,000,000 (small-scale enterprise)
or CFAF300,0,0,000 or such other amount as the Bank shall agree
(medium-scale enterprise), and with an Ivorian majority partici-
pation and Ivorian management, or (ii) a cooperative comprising
artisans producing handicrafts (artisanal enterprise), to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(c) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project in various industrial and commercial sectors, except in


﻿-2-
the agricultural sector, to be carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan and contributing,
out of its own unencumbered resources, not less than 10% in the
case of an Investment Project involving an investment of
CFAF20,000,000 or less and 20% in all other cases to the cost of
such Investment Project.
(d) "CAF Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(e) "Foreign currency   means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Statutes" means the Statuts of the Borrower dated
July 8, 1963, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy (R glement Interieur) approved by the
Directors of the Borrower on May 12, 1975, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
(h) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower dated September 5, 1975 and "Prior Loan"
means the loan provided for therein.
(i) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one
or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
(j) "Financial Subsidiary" means any subsidiary engaged
in promotional, financial or technical activities similar or
complementary to the operations of the Borrower.
(k) "OPEI" means the Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise
Ivoirienne, an 6tablissement public a caractere industriel
et commercial, established and operating pursuant to the
Guarantor's Law No. 68.342 of July 29, 1968 and Decree No. 68.607
of October 26, 1968.
(1) "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, an
etablissement public of the Guarantor, established and operating
pursuant to the laws of the Guarantor.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million six hundred thousand dollars ($12,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement including Schedule 1 thereto, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower, for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of (A) technical
assistance and staff training obtained by the Borrower, and
(B) withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise unGer a sub-loan
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Loan Account is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a sub-loan unless (i) in the event of
a sub-loan made to an Investment Enterprise qualifying as a
small-scale enterprise pursuant to the definition set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement, the cost per job
created by the Investment Project shall be about CFAF2,000,000
and (ii) (A) the sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank,
or (B) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
qualifying as a small-scale enterprise pursuant to the definition
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement,
in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which
shall not exceed the sum of (i) CFAF40,000,000, when added to any
other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or of the Prior Loan for such Invest-
ment Project or (ii) CFAF400,000,000, when added to all other
free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an


﻿-4-
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect
of a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-
limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section
2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and a calculation of the economic rate of
return of the Investment Project; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
of the sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before March 31, 1982.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Seztion 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond 15 years from the date of approval by the Bank of such
sub-loan, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authoriza-
tion by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect thereof; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be sold, trans-
ferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the
Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall
repay to the Bank on the next following interest payment date,
together with the premiums specified in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Bank.
(b) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to Pny repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall utilize, for purposes
of financing Investment Projects, the proceeds of repayments of
sub-loans made under the Project to the extent that such proceeds
are not needed for purposes of servicing the Loan.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of the Ivory Coast as will contribute to the
economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in the financing of specific development projects through
loans to Investment Enterprises in the Republic of the Ivory
Coast, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes that any sub-loan shall carry
interest on the principal outstanding from time to time at an
annual rate of not less than: (i) 8.5% in respect of a sub-loan
made to an Investment Enterprise qualifying as a small-scale
enterprise or an artisanal enterprise, as such Investment Enter-
prises are defined in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this
Agreement, and having debt outstanding of CFAF20,000,000 or less;
and (ii) 12.5% in respect of a sub-loan made to any other Invest-
ment Enterprise.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal meaps, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records, and to obtain, if necessary, the assistance of OPEI, or
of the Office National de Tourisme in respect of artisanal enter-
prises, for these purposes; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance


﻿- 7 -
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them
and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Invest-
ment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to rhe
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with .the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the
sub-loans.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent
or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe


﻿-8-
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any Financial Subsidiary as security for any
debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
Financial Subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall
grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to
the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest


﻿- 9 -
and other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessa-y to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any Financial Subsidiary to incur any debt if, after th' incurring
of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
Financial Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than 8-1/3 times the consolidated capital and surplus of
the Borrower and all its Financial Subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any Financial Subsidiary;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of the Guarantor


﻿- 10 -
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Borrower or its Financial Subsidiary for the purposes of servicing
such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its Financial
Subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its Financial Subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the
Borrower to any Financial Subsidiary or by any Financial Sub-
sidiary to the Borrower or to any other Finaacial Subsidiary;
and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its Financial Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its Financial Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of the Borrower in any Finan-
cial Subsidiary or of any Financial Subsidiary in the Borrower or
any other Financial Subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor)
used in its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, oper-
ations and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsi-
diaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represent-
atives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 11 -
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturiLy of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes which
would materially and adversely affect the operations or the
financial condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy which would materially and adversely affect the operation
or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(e) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any obligation
other than to make payment of principal or interest or any other
payment required under the Prior Loan Agreement; and
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of September 13, 1979, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 P Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
Bolte Postale 1720
Abidjan, Ivory Coast
Cable address:                     Telex:
CREDICODI                          CREDICI 2106
Abidjan                            Abidjan
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Xavier de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
CREDIT DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Timothee N'Guetta Ahoua
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans to              5,000,000           50% of cost of
medium-scale                                 Investment Proj-
enterprises                                  ect
(2) Sub-loans to              6,000,000           100% of amounts
small-scale                                  disbursed under
enterprises                                  sub-loans
(3) Sub-loans to              1,000,000          100% of amounts
artisanal                                    disbursed under
enterprises                                  sub-loans
(4) Technical                   300,000          100% of foreign
assistance                                   expenditures
(5) Staff training              300,000          100%
TOTAL     12,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Guarantor is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".


﻿- 14 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any
Category will be insufficient to finance all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
to such Category to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1982
through   January 1, 1994                   525,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.00%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


