Report No. 911-CE                                                         FILE  COPY
Republic of Sri Lanka
Agricultural Development Project
November 5, 1975
General Agriculture Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



BASIC DATA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AS OF JUNE 19, 1975
Parity Rate                              FEEC Rate
US$1           =    Rs  6,87        US$1                      Rs  11.34
Rs 1           =    US$ 0.146       Rs 1                      US$ 0.088
Rs 1           =    US$ 145,560    Rs 1 million         =     US$ 88,183
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(British System)
1 long ton = 2,240 lb    =    1.016 metric tons
1 hundred weight (cwt)   =    112 lb = 50.8 kg
1 bushel (bu)            =    45 lb (of paddy)
1 pint                   -    0.57 liters
1 acre                   =    0.405 hectare
AREA             2                  POPULATION
Total:  65,610 km                   13.4 million (1974)
16.2 million acres         Rate of growth:  1.7% (1971-74)
Cultivated land: 5 million acres
DENSITY  2                          POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1973)
20 per km                           Crude birth rate (per 1,000)  28
3,030 per km  arable land           Crude death rate (per 1,000)   8
Infant mortality (per 1,000
live births) 46
HEALTH (1973)                       NUTRITION (1973, per capita per day)
Population per physician  3,910    Calorie supply, % of requirements  101
Population per hospital bed 320    Protein supply (gram)                  45
EDUCATION (1972)                    NUMBER OF IHOLDINGS (1972)
Adult literacy rate, %        85    Tea                  118,000
Primary school enrollment, % 89    Rubber                158,000
Coconuts            295,000
Paddy & Other        944,000
Total        1,515,000
EMPLOYMENT (1973)
Total labor force ('000)  4,600
% in agriculture              45
% unemployed                  16
FISCAL YEAR                         GNP per capita
January 1 - December 31             US$ 120 (1973)



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Maha      -    Northeast Monsoon, October-February
Yala      -    Southwest Monsoon, May-September
Chena     -    Slash and Burn Cultivation
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties
M         -    Million
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
APC       -    Agricultural Productivity Center
CB        -    Central Bank
CC        -    Cultivation Committee
CDA       -    Coconut Development Authority
CFPP      -    Crash Food Production Program
CRI       -    Coconut Research Institute
DA        -    Department of Agriculture
DI        -    Department of Irrigation
DME       -    Department of Machinery and Equipment
FEEC      -    Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate 1/
GOSL      -    Government of Sri Lanka
MAL       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Lands
MIPH      -    Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways
MPEA      -    Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
FPI       -    Ministry of Plantation Industries
PCC       -    Project Co-ordinating Committee
RRI       -    Rubber Research Institute
SLSC      -    Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation
SLTC      -    Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation
TCEO      -    Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
TRI       -    Tea Research Institute
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
11 Sri Lanka is effectively operating a two-tier exchange rate system,
originally introduced after the devaluation of the Rupee in 1967. An
official exchange rate is laid down by the Central Bank (currently
Rs 15.60 to the I Sterling). In addition, most payments for foreign
exchange pay a surcharge to purchase Foreign Exchange Entitlement Cer-
tificates (FEEC's) which raises the price of foreign exchange to 65%
above the official rate. With significant exceptions, sellers of for-
eign exchange are also entitled to receive a 65% premium over the offi-
cial rate.  FEEC's iay thus be considered equivalent to a 65% ad valorem
tax on imports. FEEC's are not applied to imports of foodgrains, fer-
tilizers and a number of smallvt import items.






REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .             .............................. i-iv
I.    INTRODUCTION .         ..........................................   1
II.    BACKGROUND  .           ...........................................   2
A.    General .         ..........................................   2
B.   Agriculture's Role in the Economy  .....                  ...........  3
C.    Food Production and Consumption  .....                 .............  3
D.   Plantation and Export Crops  .                  .....................  4
E.  Sugar . ............................................ 5
III.    GOVERNMENT POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES  ....                   ......  5
IV.    THE PROJECT ............................................  9
A.    Project Definition and Scope  ...............              ......   9
B.    Detailed Features  .              ............................... 10
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING  .......................... 19
A.    Cost Estimates  .            .................................. 19
B.    Proposed Financing  ............................... 20
C.    Procurement  ..           .................................... 22
D.    Disbursement         ................. .................... 23
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .                 ........................... 23
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ............................ 24
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........                .......   26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Sri Lanka from April 27, 1975 through May 17, 1975. The mission was composed
of Messrs. R. Ellinger, N. Krafft, J.K. Lee, L. Hoppenbrouwer (IDA), and H.
Kitching  (consultant).   Messrs. H.T.  Chang (IDA)  and D. Benor also briefly
assisted the mission.



ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
Table 1   -    Agriculture's Share of the Economy (% of Total)
Table 2   -    GOSL Production Targets 1975- 1977
Table 3   -    Land Use in Dry and Wet Zones, 1970
Table 4   -    Paddy:  Acreage, Yields and Production
Table 5   -    Production, Imports, Total Supply and Self-
Sufficiency in Food Grains
Table 6   -    Tea, Rubber, Coconut - Production, Exports,
Acreages and Yields
Table 7   -    Balance of Trade on Agricultural and Other
Prodlucts
Tables 8a, 8b  Composit-.on of Imports and Exports
Table 9   -    Export and Import Price Index, Terms of Trade
Table 10  -    Prices oi. Selected Imports and Exports
2.   Support to the DepartmerLt of Agriculture
Table 1   -    Characteristics of Agro-Climatic Regions
Table 2   -    Department of Agriculture Program Expenditure
1971/72 to 1975
Table 3   -    Department of Agriculture:  Proposed UNDP Support
Table 4   -    Department of Agriculture:  Investment Proposal
Major Research Stations
Table 5   -    Department of Agriculture:  Investment Proposal
Agricultural Training
Table 6   -    Department of Agriculture:  Investment Proposal
Agricultural Extension Services
Chart 1   -    Organization of the Department of Agriculture (1973)
Chart 2   -    Proposed Organization of the Department of
Agriaulture (1975)
3.   Seed MIultiplication, Preparation and Processing
Table 1   -    GOSL Seed Farms, Area and Production
Table 2   -    GOSL Program for Variety Testing and Seed Preparation
Table 3   -    Standards for Paddy Seed
Table 4   -    Expected Ilncremental Seed Requirements, 1977 and 1980
Table 5   -    Department: of Seeds and Planting Material:
Investment Proposal
4.   Farm Power
Table 1   -    Paddy Cultivation Methods by District 1971/72
Table 2   -    Cultivaticn Practices with Different Farm Power
Table 3   -    Tractor Imports
Table 4   -    Projected Minimum Development Requirements
Table 5   -    Import Charges for Farm Tractors and Implements
Table 6   -    Marketing Charges for Four Wheel and Two Wheel
Tractors
Table 7   -      hargin for Tractor Spare Parts



-3-
ANNEXES
Appendix I -   Draft Terms of Reference:  Agricultural Engineer
Appendix II-   Draft Terms of Reference:  Agricultural Service
Engineer
5.   Irrigation
Table 1   -    Estimated Average Annual Precipitation and Runoff
Table 2   -    Territorial Civil Engineering Services, Machinery,
Surveying Equipment and Drafting Supplies
Table 3   -    Department of Machinery and Equipment, Repair of
Existing Machinery
Table 4   -    Irrigation Department, Machinery and Equipment
Appendix 1 -   Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant
6.   Tree Crop Sector
Table 1   -    Ownership of Tea Land 1971
Table 2   -    Number and Area of Rubber Holdings by Size Classes,
1973
Table 3   -    Tea - Revenues to Producers and State
Table 4   -    Registration of Tea Factories
Table 5   -    Summary of Project Support to Tree Crop Sector
Table 6   -    Analysis of Estate Expenditure
Appendix 1 -   Draft Terms of Reference of Consultant for Tree
Crop Incentive Study
Appendix 2 -   Terms and Conditions for Sale of Motor Bicycles to
Coconut Development Authority Extension Officers
7.   Tree Crop Research
Appendix 1 -   Tea Research Institute
Appendix 2 -   Rubber Research Institute
Appendix 3 -   Coconut Research Institute
Appendix 4 -   Smallholder Coconut Development Project
8.   Expansion of Sugar Production
Table 1   -    Sugar:  Production and Consumption
Table 2   -    Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation, Mlachinery and Equipment
Table 3   -    Benefits from Increased Cane Production
9.   The Lower Uva Project
Table 1   -    Machinery, Surveying Equipment and Drafting Supplies
10.   Summary of IDA Contribution
11.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



-4-
ANNEXES
12.   Initial Implementation Schedule
13.   Procurement of Farm Tractors and On-estate Transport Vehicles
14.   Benefits
MAPS
1.   Land Utilization - IBRD 11761
2. Land Classification - I]3RD 11762



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i)        Agriculture is dominant in Sri Lanka's economy through its large
contribution to GDP (about 33%), foreign exchange earnings (about 75%) and
employment (about 50%). Yet, for the most part, agricultural output has
stagnated in recent years and Sri Lanka has, for decades, imported up to
half its basic food requirements. Tree crop production, the main source
of foreign exchange, declined and, with increasingly adverse terms of trade,
there has been a severe shortage of foreign exchange for the importation of
capital equipment required by the food and tree crop sub-sectors as well as
other sectors of the economy.
ii)       The major objectives of Sri Lanka's agricultural policies,
include: self-sufficiency in food production; diversification of crop
production to reduce dependence upon tea and rubber for foreign exchange
earnings; expansion of employment opportunities in agriculture; and the
improvement of rural living conditions and social services. While it is
essential that Sri Lanka increases foodgrain production, foodgrain self-
sufficiency may not be a feasible target in the short or medium run. Many
parts of Sri Lanka are better suited to tree crop as compared to food crop
production. Consequently, Sri Lanka's agricultural development strategy
should concentrate on achieving a balanced growth. This would call for rea-
lizing the potential for increasing foodgrain production, which is particu-
larly high in the Dry Zone, parallel with improving output of the tree crop
sub-sector. This policy would entail reassessment of taxation and subsidy
systems and greater emphasis on management considerations in schemes aiming
at improved income distributions such as land reform and settlement schemes.
iii)      Government's policy for tree crop diversification calls for the
alternative development of 200,000 ac of marginal tea land and around 180,000
ac of marginal rubber land, one third of the total area under these crops.
A first phase diversification program, covering about 75,000 ac, largely
marginal tea land, is under preparation with the assistance of UNDP/FAO, and
the FAO/IBRD Co-operative Program. Bank Group support for the implementation
of this project has been sought by GOSL, and is scheduled for FY77.
iv)       In the past GOSL has shown a marked preoccupation with new devel-
opment,- giving insufficient attention to the maintenance and utilization of
existing assets. This policy inter alia has led to severe deterioration of
irrigation networks, of farm power, of on-estate transport, and of irriga-
tion construction capacity. Small investments would frequently allow the
full and effective utilization of capital stock and would bring substantial
economic benefits. Priority should therefore be given!to such rehabili-
tation schemes.



v)        This report appraises an Agricultural Development Project support-
ing tLe food crop and tree crop sub-sectors cf Sri Larnka. It would be the
first !DA credit of this type in S ri Lanka. The proposed Project is designed
to support priority Government aericultur-l rehahilitatLon and development
programs through the provision of ;mporteid capital equipment and technical
assistance. Support provided wouldi increase agricultural production in the
short-term and would lay the foundation for longer term, more comprehensive
development. IDA funds would provride finance for the cif costs of imported
agricultural tractors, machinery, equipment and transport (US$18.0 M), spare
parts for farm tractors, earth-moving equipment and for the coconut pro-
cessing industry (US$6.5 XI). TechrLical assistance would be provided for
pre-investment studies and for re-organization of machinery repair facilities
(US$0.5 M). Programs selected for support were chosen because of their
favorable impact upon early and sustained food production and on quality of
tree crops products. Specifically the Project would strengthen agricultural
research, training, extension and seed multip:Lication programs of the
Department of Agriculture. It would provide support to the Ministry of
Irrigation, Power and Highways for improved irrigation through better opera-
tion and maintenance of existing networks and the rehabilitation of irrigation
construction equipment. This support would complement other planned Government
programs for which IDA support has been sought: separately, such as the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Project (II) I, and a pioneer irrigation rehabilitation
project. IDA funds would also increase privately owned farm power and provide
support to the tree crop sub-sector to maximize benefits from present pro-
duction through improved transportation and processing. Support would also
be given to the Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation for the implementation of a
sugar expansion program. No IDA funds would be used to import consumables
such as fertilizer and farm chemicaLs.
vi)       The estimated total cost of programs to be supported would be
US$60.5 M including duties and taxes. This takes into account an estimated
US$2.1 M from UNDP for technical assistance and provision of research and
extension facilities to the Department of Agriculture and to the three tree
crop research institutes. The proposed IDA credit of US$25 M would finance
100% of the cif costs of imported equipment and of 11 man-years of technical
assistance. IDA would thus cover about 41% of total costs. GOSL as well
as quasi government beneficiaries would finance 44%, UNDP 3% and farmers,
extension officers, and the estate sector 12%. Government contribution
net of all taxes would be 33%, IDA contribution 62% and UNDP's 5%.
vii)      The main items to be financed under the Project would be spare
parts for tractors, trucks and machinery, new vehicles and new tractors.
Spare parts for existing vehicles and tractors (US$1.6 M), and for equipment
owned by DME (US$2.9 N-) and the coconut processing industry (US$0.5 M) would
be purchased directly from suppliers and would be sold to the end user on a
cash basis. New tractors to augment farm power- (US$2.2 M) and vehicles for
the estate sector (US$4.4 M), including 10% for spares, would be imported
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Transport and equipment for TCEO (US$5.6 M), motorcycles for



- iii -
extension officers and transport for all other governmental organizations
(US$7.3 M) would be grouped and purchased by the appropriate agency also
under ICB.  Minor equipment, items valued at less than US$100,000 would be
purchased through normal trade channels. Technical assistance specialists
(US$0.5 M) would be recruited by the Ministry concerned in accordance with
IDA guidelines for selection of consultants.
viii)     Overall responsibility for project implementation would be with
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (MPEA), with execution of
individual project components through participating Ministries. Inter-minis-
terial coordination, supervision and monitoring would be ensured through a
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be established under the chairmanship
of the Director, External Resources Division, MPEA. FCC would be assisted
in its task by a permanent secretariat to be appointed by GOSL prior to
project effectiveness. Members of the Committee would be representatives
of the Ministries directly concerned with project components namely: the
Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, the Ministry of Plantation Industries,
and the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Ilighways; as well as the Central
Bank of Ceylon (CB). It was agreed that the establishment of the Committee
would be a condition of effectiveness for the Project.
ix)       It is estimated that support to the food crop subsector would
result in sustained production increases by about year six after Project
implementation, of approximately 150,000 tons of paddy and 11,500 tons of
sugar. The approximate value, at projected world market prices in constant
dollars, would be US$41 M per annum. Quantitatively, this incremental
production would be equivalent to over 40% of total present rice imports
and 20% of recent sugar imports. Additional production increases would result
from improved activities of the Department of Agriculture, particularly
extension services. Support to the tree crop sector would primarily help
to improve processing quality through reduction in raw material (latex and
green-leaf) deterioration during transport from field to factory and through
rehabilitation of coconut processing equipment.
x)        The Project would assist in one form or another the vast majority
of smallholder paddy producers in the Dry Zone. The number of beneficiaries
would be around 320,000 farm families or about 13% of the total population
of Sri Lanka. In addition, support to the tree crop sector would improve
the financial position and assurance of employment of tea pluckers and
rubber tappers, the poorest segment of Sri Lanka's rural population. Pro-
vision of transport to bought-leaf factories would assist the majority of
the approximately 115,000 smallholder tea producers.
xi)       The proposed Project would assist the Government of Sri Lanka
in its attempt to stimulate overall agricultural production and reduce
its dependence upon importation of rice and sugar in addition to Govern-
ment's plans to improve returns from cash crop production. The support



- iv -
for the identification and preparation of smallholder development projects
in the coconut area and in the Lower Uva region would provide for a contin-
uation of planned agricultural development.
xii)      The Proect, is considered suitable for an IDA support of US$25 M.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Agriculture plays a dominant role in Sri Lanka's economy. Yet,
for the most part, agricultural output, has remained constant over the past
few years. For decades, Sri Lanka has imported up to half its basic food
requirements. The foreign exchange required for food and other imports is
largely generated by exports of tree crops. With the stagnation of tree
crop production and increasingly adverse terms of trade, foreign exchange
availability has become precarious. This scarcity of foreign exchange
restricted importation of capital equipment required to maintain production
of the food crop and tree crop subsectors as well as of other segments of
the economy. Consequent shortages of farm power, transport and spare parts
reduced output further. Discussions with the Bank Group in connection with
the Bank's Agricultural Development Policy and Program Review Mission 1/
focused on the urgent need to alleviate this shortage of capital equipment,
and, as a result, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) submitted an official
request for IDA assistance for a broad based and comparatively quick dis-
bursing Agricultural Development Project. In addition to this Project, proj-
ects to develop food production and tree crop diversification are being
processed.
1.02      Since the beginnings of its operation in Sri Lanka in 1954, the
Bank Group has made seven loans and eight credits totalling US$127.6 M.
Credits 121-CE for US$2.0 M in 1968 and 168-CE for US$2.5 M in 1969 sup-
ported irrigation and land reclamation. Loan 653-CE and Credit 174-CE for
US$29 1M in 1970 supported power and irrigation and Credit 504-CE for US$9 M
assisted dairy development. A program Credit 512-CE for US$15 M, signed
in 1974, allowed for limited importation of capital equipment and raw mate-
rials for the agricultural and industrial sectors.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
to Sri Lanka in April/May 1975, comprising Messrs. K. R. Ellinger, N. Krafft,
J. K. Lee, L. Hoppenbrouwer (IDA) and H. Kitching (consultant). The mission
was also briefly assisted by Messrs. H. T. Chang (IDA) and D. Benor
(consultant) .
1/   Republic of Sri Lanka, Agricultural Policy and Program Review, Report
No. 579a-CE, February 1975.



II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Fepublic of Sri Lanka covers an area of 25,300 sq mi (16 M ac)
and has a population of 13.4 M1 growing at an annual rate of about 2%. The
island is geologically a part of the Indian Deccan Plateau and stretches
255 miles from north to south and 140 miles from east to west. The climate
is characterized by low variaticn in temperature and heavy, variable rain-
fall, especially during the northeast monsoon, October-February (Maha
season) and the southwest monsoon, May-September (Yala season). About
5 M ac are used for permanent agriculture, about 7 M ac are under forest,
2.5 M ac are used for "chena" cultivation (slash and burn) and about 1.5
M ac are under natural grassland or scrub. The Wet Zone (Map 1) (rainfall
75-200"), in the hills and the southwest of the island, benefits from both
monsoons, making rainfed agriculture and the growing of tea and rubber pos-
sible. It is both the most intensively exploited area with 73% of land
under permanent agriculture, and the most densely populated. The Dry Zone
(rainfall 35-75") in the north and east depends, particularly for double
cropping, on conservation and storage of water. However, with irrigation,
this Zone has by far the greatest potential for expansion of foodgrain
production.
2.02      Average per capita income is low at US$120 (1973), and since 1970
there has been no significant increase in real per capita income. Since
Independence successive governments have concentrated heavily on social
welfare, rather than productive investment. Government policies include
free education (the adult literacy rate is by far the highest in South Asia
at 85%) low cost health services, subsidized public transport, distribution
of basic food rations, free or at subsidized rates, and an increasing Govern-
ment participation in trade and industry. A land reform, introduced in 1972
and executed in 1974, established ceilings on privately held land. In
October 1975 all publicly owned tea, rubber, and coconut estates were nation-
alized.
2.03      The social program, largely benefitting the urban population
about 20% of total), was based primarily on the contribution of the
traditional export sector - rubber, tea, coconut products. However, world
market prices for rubber and tea have been depressed for most of the last two
decades; low prices, insecurity of tenure, and increasing taxation have
reduced re-investment in the plantation sector leading to stagnation in
output. The decline in exports and the general stagnation of economic
activities limited expansion of the labor market and led to an estimated
unemployment rate of nearly 16% of total labor force. Even if terms of
trade had been more favorable the traditional export sector would probably
not have been able to generate the necessary funds for an increasing social
benefit program for a rapidly growing population. Rather it is now clear
that the key to a sustained increase in prosperity for Sri Lanka's urban



-3-
and rural poor lies in a broad based agricultural development strategy
making full use of the country's rich and diverse physical and human
resources. The proposed Project is designed to help GOSL pursue such a
strategy.
B. Agriculture's Role in the Economy /
2.04      Agriculture contributes 33% of GDP, 75% of foreign exchange earnings
and is the main source of employment. About 80% of Sri Lanka's 13.4 M people
are classified as rural, and 50% of total employment is in farming. Most
people classified as rural non-farm (30% of total population) depend upon
employment and income from service and manufacturing industries closely
associated with agriculture.
2.05      Understandably, therefore, the nation's economic growth depends
mainly upon the performance of the agricultural sector. In the period
1965-70 foodgrain and rubber production increased significantly and more
than compensated for declines in tea and coconut production. However, since
1970 there has been a decline in both paddy and tree crop production.
2.06      The country's foreign trade is dominated by agriculture.  Sri
Lanka has for many years relied upon tree crop exports to finance a large
part of its food supply (primarily rice and wheat flour, representing around
35% of the import bill) as well as financing essential capital equipment
required for agriculture and other sectors. Recent world market price
developments resulted in a serious deterioration of terms of trade. Prices
for Sri Lanka's traditional export crops improved during 1973/74 but did
not keep pace with import prices.
C. Food Production and Consumption
2.07      Rice is the staple food in Sri Lanka; it constitutes more than
70% of total consumption of foodgrains and accounts for 30% of agricultural
land. Domestic rice production reached a peak of 1.1 It tons in 1970, de-
clined to about .9-.95 M tons during the years 1971 to 1973 and rose again
in 1974 to 1.1 .1 tons. Iiowever, largely as a result of drought, 1975 rice
production has been the lowest for 10 years at .75 1M tons. In no year has
production been sufficient to meet demand. The ratio of production to con-
sumption rose from a little over 50% in the early 1960's to around 75% in
the early 1970's as rice production increased. While rice imports were
reduced, wheat and flour imports remained high to meet growing foodgrain needs
of a rapidly increasing population. Consequently, production for all foodgrains
1/   For a more detailed analysis of Sri Lanka's agricultural development
problems, see Agricultural Policy and Program Review, Report No. 579a-
CE, February 19, 1975.



4 -
increased only slightly and Sri Lanka has been dependent upoin imports for
45' to 50; of its foodgrain requirements since 1970. The major features
of foodgrain production in Sri Lanka are - its dependence on irrigation
and on tractors for cultivation, particularly in the Dry Zone where any
substantial increases in foodgrain production must tal.e place (of all the
countries of South and South East: Asia, Sri Lanka has the greatest density
of mechanically cultivatcri land) as well as on the widespread use of high
yielding varieties (about 30% of the gross icreage harvested in 1974).  But
if maximum use is to be made of these input'-, improvements in land and
water management are retuired, including the introduction of cropping
patterns and varieties suited to individual ecological zones. Production of
foodgrains other than rice, is smiall, consisting mainly of millet and rainfed
pulses; maize and sorghum cultivation is being promoted. Othbr food crops
are coconut, chillies, onions, sugarcane, manioc, fruits and vegetables.
Soybeans have been introduced very recently. Animal production is limited.
2.08      Rice, wheat flour and sugar have been subject to a rationing system
under which they have been made available to consumers free or at low prices.
Free and subsidized rations have been progressively reduced, the latest re-
duction being the abolition of the wheat flour ration on April 1, 1975.
D. Plantation and Export Crop
2.09      The importance of the traditional export crops lies not only in
the fact that in the foreseeable future they will remain the major source of
foreign exchange earnings but also in that a stagnation in their exports
affects the whole economy. The three crops account for nearly all agricul-
tural export earnings (72.5% of total), about 45% of agricultural employment,
about 40% of the value added in the agricultural sector; and, furthermore,
they make a substantial contribution to government revenues through taxes
and levies (about 16% based on provisional 1974 figures). In addition,
coconuts are a major food source.
2.10      Production of tea has declined slightly over the last years while
rubber production, after increasing considerably during the 1960's, stagnated,
reaching a peak of 160,000 tons in 1970 and declining again in 1974 to 135,000
tons. Mlost of the tea and rubber lands are operated on an estate basis, with
rubber less so than tea. Coconuts are grown in all settled areas but are
concentrated in the Coconut Triangle in the western coastal region. lIany
parts of Sri Lanka are better suited to tree crop as compared to food crop
production; much of the land in tea and rubber is not suitable for growing
other crops and would have much less value in alternative uses. Both tea
and rubber are subject to a wide network of cesses and taxes. At the same
time GOSL has various subsidy prograras to encourage replanting; nevertheless
replanting performiance has been poor due to lack of investment incentives
qnd adequate supporting services.  The recent nationalization of all publicly
owned estates might substantially alter future management decisions.  Tree
crops prcvide year-round employment and since tea, in particular, is highly
labor in--ensive, production declines severely affect employment opportunities.



- 5 -
There remains considerable scope for better adaptation of Sri Lanka's tree
crop economy to changing world market circumstances through better land-use
planning leading to diversification and replanting with improved material.
2.11      GOSL is embarking on a program for diversification of tea and
rubber lands (para 3.06(g)). This program foresees diversification of
around 200,000 ac of tea and 180,000 of rubber land, approximately one third
of total land under these crops. GOSL, with the support of UNDP/FAO, has
already started with project development planning. It is operating a pilot
diversification scheme on about 16,000 ac and, with the support of UNDP/FAO,
is formulating a diversification project to cover some 75,000 ac in the
Kandy region. This land, largely under tea, is to be developed under food
crops, tree crops other than tea, pasture and forest. Bank Group support
for this project has been sought by GOSL and is scheduled for FY77,
E. Sugar
2.12      Imports of refined sugar reached 283,000 tons in 1971 but were
cut back sharply to 190,000 tons in 1973 and to 42,000 tons in 1974. Yet
due to considerably higher prices, sugar imports accounted for over 10%
of total imports in 1973 and sugar is the largest single food item imported
after grain. During 1960-1971, domestic production of refined sugar never
exceeded 10,000 tons but rose to 19,000 tons in 1973. In addition, farmers
have customarily planted about 10,000 ac to cane for direct consumption or
for processing into jaggery - an unrefined sugar. Appreciable areas of
the Dry Zone could, with irrigation, be used for sugar production; yet, pro-
posals for increased sugar production need to be investigated further before
attempting any large scale expansion. In the meantime, emphasis should be
given to better utilization of partially developed sugar cane land and
existing factory capacity.
III. GOVERNMENT POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
3.01      GOSL places high priority on agriculture as evidenced by ambitious
production targets in the current Five-Year Plan (1972-76), equally ambitious
programs and projects (for example, the Crash Food Production Program (CF?P),
and the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project) and policy actions introduced
recently to attempt to stimulate agricultural production. However, in no
year hag the 1972 foodgrain production target been met, let alone any of the
later targets, and for some time the Plan has generally been regarded as
obsolete. It has been replaced by annual Implementation Programs and special
schemes reflecting more socio-political ideals than realistic targets.
3.02      The major objective of Sri Lanka's agricultural policies include:
self-sufficiency in food production; diversification of crop production
to reduce dependence upon tea and rubber for foreign exchange earnings;



- 6 -
expansion of employment opportunities in agriculture; and improvement of
rural living conditions and social services.  While it is essential that
Sri Lanka increases foodgrain production, foodgrain self-sufficiency may
not be a feasible target in the short and medium run 1/. Many parts of
Sri Lanka are better suited to tree crop as compared to food crop pro-
duction, therefore agricultural development strategy should concentrate on
achieving a balanced growth. This would call for realizing the potential
for increasing foodgrain production, which is particularly high in the Dry
Zone, parallel with promoting output of the tree crop sub-sector. This
policy would entail reassessment of taxation and subsidy systems and greater
emphasis on management considerations in schemes aiming at improved income
distribution e.g., land reform, settlement schemes.
3.03      Recent policy measures taken by GOSL are discussed in detail in
the Agricultural Policy and Program Review 2/ and include:-
(a) An increased paddy procurement price, additional credit for
food production and priority for fertilizer availability to
the food crop sub-sector;
(b)  Establishment of 480 AgriLcultural Productivity Centers (APC)
under the Agricultural Productivity Law (1972); APCs have far
reaching powers to improle extension, credit, input supply
and marketing services;
(c) Enactment of the Agricultural Lands Law (1973) providing for
the security of tenants and control of rents for highland as
well as paddy land;
(d) A reduction in export duties on rubber and coconut products
(1975);
(e)  Enactment of the Land Reform Law (1972) limiting individual
private ownership of land to 25 ac for paddy and 50 ac for
all other agricultural land. 3/
1/   In Sir Lanka foodgrains account for only about 41% of the gross acreage
under cultivation compared with about 70--80% in India and Bangladesh and
67% in Burma.
2/   Ibid.
3/   The objective of the Law was to increase productivity and employment
opportunities. Implementation of the Law was completed by August 1974
and a total of about 1 M ac was affected. The Land Reform Commission,
under the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands (MAL), responsible for law
implementation, alienated about 560,000 ac, more than 60% being under
tree crops. No consistent plani for the future use and management of
land taken over has yet been designed. The diversification program
for marginal tea and rubber land, for which Bank Group assistance has
been sought, will be largely concerned with utilization and management
of land affected by the land reform. More recently (October 1975) GOSL
nationalized all foreign owned estates.



-7-
3.04      GOSL programs concentrate on new development with insufficient
attention being given to the maintenance and utilization of existing assets.
This, for example, has resulted in a considerable run down of irrigation
networks. Their maintenance must be given priority and this would call for
greater allocation of funds for operation and maintenance. Similarly agri-
cultural machinery and transport fleets have been severely depleted through
lack of spares and replacements and should be rehabilitated. In these and
similar cases, because of sunk costs, small investments would bring substan-
tial benefits and would allow fuller and more effective utilization of
existing stock whether human or capital, at the same time helping to meet
GOSL's social objectives.
3.05      GOSLts major agricultural programs and projects (excluding live-
stock, fisheries and forestry), include:
(a)  A comprehensive and well conceived plan to reorganize the
Department of Agriculture's research, training and extension
services aimed at increasing crop yields and at diversifying
production based on cropping patterns adapted to individual
ecological zones (Paras 4.04, 4.05, Annex 2 and Map 2);
(b)  A program under which GOSL's seed farms would be more fully
exploited and seed production improved by better seed drying,
processing, multiplication and storage facilities (Paras 4.06,
4.07 and Annex 3);
(c)  Improved paddy marketing and milling:  This program is supported
by USAID and UNDP;
(d)  A highly ambitious program of improved land and water man-
agement in the Dry Zone including the Mahaweli Ganga Develop-
ment Project for which the Bank Group provided assistance to
Stage I and has recently appraised Stage II, and the Lower Uva
Project which aims at increased water supply and settlement in
the underpopulated South East (Annex 9);
(e)  The CFPP, initiated in late 1974 and replacing a similar Food
War Program, which had limited effect on production. A multi-
tude of agencies are involved in its implementation, it is
poorly put together and development targets exceed past
performance;
(f)  The 'Package Deal' for the tea industry providing for substantial
subsidies for replanting, fertilizer and tea chests as well as
increasing control of fertilizer application, replanting, factory
development and crop diversification. This complements tea and
rubber factory rehabilitation and development schemes which have
been ongoing for several years (the tea factory development scheme
has received support from ADB);



- 8 -
(g)  An ambitious program for the diversification of sub-marginal tea
and rubber lands on some 380,000 ac. This would diversify about
one third of land currently under tea and rubber. To implement
these plans GOSL is operating a pilot scheme to diversify an area
of about 16,000 ac and U?NDP is assisting in the formulation of an
integrated and comprehensive program of diversification on about
75,000 ac in the Kandy region. Bank Group assistance for this
project is scheduled;
(h)  Production expansion of refined sugar on estates and of jaggery
on smallholdings, to reduce the gap between current production
and requirements and to wake full use of existing factory
capacity (Paras 4.26-4.2E and Annex 8);
(i)  Promotion of fertilizer use through subsidies.  In doing so,
GOSL has developed a three-tier price system:
(i) unsubsidized fertilizer for food crops (except paddy),
rubber and some minor export crops;
(ii) paddy fertilizer with a subsidy of 30% to 40% of
actual market price; and
(iii)  tea, coconut and most minor export crop fertilizer
with a subsidy of 50% of actual market price.
For economic, technical and administrative reasons, the Association urged
that fertilizer subsidies should be progressively reduced and standardized.
In October 1975, GOSL introduced a standard subsidy rate of 50% for all
fertilizers.
3.06      Several of GOSL's major programs and projects already receive
bilateral or multilateral assistance or negotiations for assistance are
under way (e.g. the Hahaweli Ganga Development Project (II) I).  Of the
others, priority should be given to the Department of Agriculture's research,
training and extension services and to its seed production program, to GOSL's
program of diversification out of tea and rubber and to the program to in-
crease sugar production. It is important to support GOSL's objective of
employment generation and to understand that for the foreseeable future tree
crop products will continue to be the major source of foreign exchange while
at the same time taking full accounm: of the limited world market prospects
for tea. Bearing these aspects in mind, GOSL assistance to the tea in-
dustry aims at increasing yields, decreasing unit production costs, and
improving product quality while simultaneously reducing total acreage through
crop diversification schemes on an estimated one third of the total tea
area (see para 2.11).



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Definition and Scope
4.01      The Project would assist GOSL in achieving an early and sustained
impact on foodgrain and sugar production by providing foreign exchange
for the importation of basic, specified, capital equipment--the shortage of
which is limiting production expansion - and by providing technical assist-
ance. In addition, it would provide support to the tree crop subsector for
improved transport, processing, research and extension so as to maintain
output and improve quality thereby maximizing the benefit from present
production. No Project funds would be used to finance importation of re-
current inputs, i.e., fertilizer, chemicals, etc. Foreign exchange would be
provided for both the public and the private sector, to provide farm power
and transport vehicles in short supply after years of reduced imports due to
lack of foreign exchange. To ensure continued benefits, assurances have been
obtained that GOSL will provide for continued replacement and supply of spares
for the rehabilitated farm power and transport fleets.
4.02      The Project would assist in:
(a) Increasing production of foodgrains and rotation crops through:
(M) Improved research. training and extension services of the
Department of Agriculture.
(ii) Expanded certified seed Production on 42 GOSL seed farms.
(iii) Expanded farm power availability through the rehabilitation
of 1600 privately owned tractors; the importation of
new tractors; provision of new tractor implements; and
technical assistance to the Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation
(SLTC).
(iv) Improved operation and maintenance of irrigation networks
serving about 950,000 ac operated by the Territorial Civil
Engineering Organization (TCEO).
(v)  Expanded irrigation construction capacity through the
rehabilitation of heavy construction equipment of the
Department of Machinery and Equipment (DME), as well as
technical assistance for the reorganization of DME's
repair and maintenance facilities, and through provision
of new equipment to the Department of Irrigation (DI)
for the completion of two irrigation schemes covering
8,000 ac.



- 10 
(b) Increasing returns from tree crop products by improving quality
of the end product tlhrough rehabilitation of on-estate trans-
port, provision of new vehicles to estates and bought-leaf
factories, provision of spare parts for the coconut processing
industry, and provisLon of transport for zesearch and extension.
(c)  Expanding sugar production through land clearing and irrigation
on 4,600 ac.
(d)  Preparing pre-investmnent studies for -
(i) smallholder development in the coconut area.
(ii) land development: and settlement in the Lower Uva.
(e) Studying the pricing and subsidy systems affecting the tree crop
sector.
4.03      The impact of the various project components would be felt through-
out the island but would vary irom one ecological zone to the other:
(a)  Throughout the island better agricultural extension services
and increased certified seed production would help improve
land and water management and increase food production per ac.
(b) In the Dry Zone increased farm power would help reduce delays in
cultivation and expand double cropping. Completion of two irri-
gation schemes by DI and support to the Sugar Corporation would
increase agricultural production.
(c)  In the Dry and Intermediate Zones water conservation would be
improved as a result of improved 0 & M by the TCEO while in-
creased availability of irrigation construction equipment would
help expand irrigatecd agriculture.
(d) In the Wet Zone improved transport for green-leaf and latex
would raise returns per unit of production through quality im-
provement of the end product and would contribute to assured
employ ment.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural research, trainin, and extension (Annex 2)
4.04      The Department of Agriculture, responsible for research, training
and extension, has prepared a comprehensive and well conceived plan for the
reorganization of these services. This pLan, approved by Cabinet, has as
its main objectives increasing crop yields and diversification of production



- 11 -
on the basis of a more effective use of rainfall and storage water, and in-
troducing cropping systems and farm practices better adapted to local eco-
logical conditions. The Department's extended activity will be based upon
six to eight regional research, extension and training centers. The Project
would support four centers and their 11 satellite stations, as well as the
School of Agriculture and Regional and District Training Centers, by pro-
viding foreign exchange for the importation of spares for the repair of
tractors, farm machinery, equipment and vehicles already in the possession
of the Department, but not operative due to lack of replacement parts, and
specified new farm machinery, equipment and transport. In addition, the
Project would provide transport for extension officers and their supervisors.
The Department would be responsible for construction or rehabilitation of
necessary farm buildings and for operation and maintenance of the equipment.
Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that foreign exchange will be avail-
able to the Department to assure continued operation and maintenance of
equipment and transport provided. Further assurances were obtained that
adequate credit arrangements will be made available to allow extension staff
to purchase motorcycles.
4.05      IDA support would be closely linked to a parallel UNDP financed
project under which technical assistance as well as laboratory equipment,
audio-visual aids, and technical literature would be provided. FAO would
be the executing agency for this project. Preparation of this project is
underway. It was agreed with GOSL that the effectiveness of IDA support
for this component be contingent upon signature of a relevant UNDP project
agreement and that IDA will be given the opportunity to comment on terms
of reference for the consultants to be employed.
Seed Multiplication and Processing (Annex 3)
4.06      Certified seed production is insufficient to meet requirements.  It is low
in quantity and quality resulting in nearly half of the total production being
rejected for certification. The Department of Agriculture's new Division of
Seed and Planting Material has developed a program under which 42 GOSL seed
farms would be fully developed for expanded registered seed production with
certified seed multiplication mainly on private farms. Seed drying, pro-
cessing, and storage facilities would also be expanded and improved. The
Department's program calls for an increase by 1980 in certified seed for
paddy from the present 5,250t/year to 20,000t/year and for other cereals and
pulses from 1,400t to 2,200t. This production would be ample for the pro-
jected 2.4 M ac of paddy and 0.6 M1 ac of cereals and pulses. Local staff
is adequate in number and experience to implement the program.
4.07      The Project would assist in the development of Government farms
through the provision of finance for the importation of farm machinery,
equipment, and transport. Assurances were obtained that necessary seed
storage facilities will be constructed by GOSL on Department farms. Re-
sponsibility for operating and maintaining machinery and equipment provided
would be the Department's.



- 12 -
Expansion of Farm Power in the Dry Zone (Annex 4)
4.08      Cultivation in Sri Lanka, particularly in the Dry Zone, is highly
mechanized because (i) soils are subject to extreme baking and (ii) of the
need for timely cultivation. Shortages of foreign exchange reduced the
number of operating four-wheel tractors from some 11,000 units in 1969 to
an estimated 5,750 units in 1975., It is further estimated that no more than
two-thirds of these tractors work. in agriculture, the others being employed
in the tree crop sector or in road haulage. Of the agricultural tractor
fleet it is assumed that some 3,200 units work in the Dry Zone, probably not
more than 1,600 units being fully operative.
4.09      Total requirements of four wheel tractors for agriculture in the
Dry Zone are estimated at nearly 3,300 units, rising to 4,400 units by 1985
with increased land use. The Project would provide foreign exchange for
importation of new tractors and of spare parts for the rehabilitation of the
inactive tractor fleet and the maintenance of operative units. It would
also provide for the importation of new tractor implements for demonstration on
GOSL farms. Given an annual replacement rate of 7%, this rehabilitation
program would be insufficient to assure total farm power requirements and
IDA input would have to be complemented by an import program for new tractors
for which bilateral assistance might be sought. New tractors to be imported
under the Project would be distributed to private farmers who are also tractor
custom operators, on the basis of an eligibility pre-selection. Responsibi-
lity for this preselection will rest with the Ministry of Agriculture.
Assurances have been obtained thaLt necessary credit facilities will be avail-
able to farmers to purchase tractors. Tractors to be procured under the
Project would be purchased on the! basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines.
4.10      Repair facilities and experienced mechanics are available in Sri
Lanka. However, to ensure that the run down of farm power through lack of
spare parts and replacements (abcout 200 units per annum for the rehabilitated
fleet) would not recur, assurancets were obtained that, after completion of
disbursement, GOSL will make annually sufficient foreign exchange available
to maintain the tractor fleet.
4.11      New tractors to be imported would in the majority be four-wheel
units since GOSL has a program irn hand for their local manufacture. This
program, however, appears overambitious and the type of tractor to he
manufactured not suitable to most of Sri Lanka's conditions. To assist in
realistic production planning the project would provide for the services
of two experts to advise GOSL on tractor production. These consultants would
also assist in the re-organization of private and public repair facilities,
in the planning of importation and distribution of tractor spare parts
through SLTC, and the production of tractors, tractor implements and farm
tools. The two experts to be recruited, subject to their qualifications
being acceptable to the Association, would work together with the consul-
tant to be employed by DfEl (see rpara 4.15).  Terms of reference are given
in Annex 4.



- 13 -
Operation and Maintenance of Trrigation Networks (Annex 5)
4.12      Food crop production in the Dry Zone is largely dependent upon
controlled water supply.  Approximately 1 1f ac out of a total agricultutral
area of 1.8 Mi ac are in some way irrigated. Responsibility for operation
and maintenance of 177 existing major tanks, providing water for 477,000
ac, and minor irrigation schemes covering around 470,000 ac, rests with the
TCEO. TCEO is also responsible for construction of minor tnnks. The
Organization is structured in 9 regional and 115 divisional offices; it is
well staffed but lacks transport and equipment essential for supervision of
irrigation networks and for proper water management.
4.13      The Project would provide foreign exchange for the importation of
inspection vehicles and surveying and drafting equipment for TCEO. The
Project would also finance limited construction equipment for DIuE, for
assignment to TCEO on a rental basis for specific jobs. Ilowever, since poor
water management on most irrigation schemes is due to lack of operation and
maintenance funds and lack of water discipline amongst farmers, in the absence
of remedial action, support to TCEO, and indeed to the food crop sector, would
be ill advised. During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOSL
will gradually increase allocations from the present Rs 25/ac/year to
reach, not later than 1979, the level required to allow proper operation
and maintenance, estimated in current terms at Rs 50/ac/year.
Rehabilitation of earth-moving and construction machinery (Annex 5)
4.14      The bulk of earth-moving and construction machinery in Sri Lanka
is under the operational supervision of DME.  DME also operates 3 major and
11 regional repair and maintenance shops. Mluch of DME's machinery and equip-
ment is non operational for want of spares and replacement parts and the De-
partment, with its machinery park operating at about 25% of its potential, is
no longer able to assure equipment availability to construction organizations
when requested.
4.15      The Project would provide for the recruitment, within six months of
signature of the Development Credit Agreement, of one consultant with
qualifications acceptable to the Association, who would be responsible for:
(a) proposals for the introduction of a meaningful policy of spare
part procurement and disbursement; and
(b) the reorganization of DME's repair facilities.
The consultant would work in close co-operation with the two experts who
would assist in the re-organization of tractor repair facilities (para
4.11). For terms of reference see Annex 5, Appendix 1.
The Project would further provide funds for the importation of spare and
replacement parts to rehabilitate about 150 major pieces of equipment; and
workshop equipment for DME's repair facilities. DME would assess spare and
replacement part requirements and would submit these to the Association for
approval.



- 14 -
Corapletion of Two Irrigation Proiects (Annex 5)
4.16      The 1975 work program of the DI includes the construction or
reconstruction of 12 irrigation projects. Seven of th-ese projects have
been under construction for a nurmber of years but, although development
is advanced, completion of work has been delayed by lacl of machinery.
In particular, two projects near4y completed, could shortly be brought
into production through the provision of some earth-moving and construction
equipment. Sound technical and economic feasibility studies for the two
projects have been completed. The Department has the technical competence
and manpower to undertake the completion of these projects.
4.17      One project, the Wahalkade irrigation scheme, consists of the
reconstruction of an ancient tank with a storage capacity of 30,000 ac feet
to serve an area of 2,000 ac. The work remaining calls for the construction
of four miles of main canals, the construction of distributaries, and jungle
clearing on 1,750 ac. After completion of construction, settlement would
be undertaken by the Department of Land Settlement. Plans for this have
been formulated. The major crop to be grown would be paddy.
4.18      The second project, the Iluthuaiyankaddu scheme, involves drain-
age on 6,000 ac. Remaining work consists of earthmoving, construction of
drainage structures, internal roads and field channels as well as iungle
clearing on 200 ac. The area is already settled and improved drainage would
result in immediate increases in yields of crops grown, mainly chillies and
vegetables.
4.19      The Project would provide finance for the importation of machinery
and equipment for the completion of the two schemes.  This equipment would be
initially entrusted to DI, but after completion of the two schemes would
revert to DME for reassignment to other irrigation construction jobs.
Tree Crops, On-Estate Transport, Extension Services and Coconut Processing
(Annex 6)1/
4.20      Transport vehicles on t:ea and rubber estates and transport for
smallholder bought-leaf factories are inadequate and for the most part obsolete.
Insufficient availability and frequent breakdown of transport result in undue
delays in processing and in deterioration in quality of green-leaf or in co-
agulation of latex, detrimental to quality of the end-product. Transport
constraints also lead to postponements in plucking, affecting employment as
well as quality of end-product. Antiquated transport is expensive to operate
and the shortage of transport has forced numerous tea and rubber factories
to switch from solid fuel (wood) to liquid fuel for firing driers, further in-
creasing the cost of production and requiring scarce foreign exchange. Lack
1/   The recent nationalization of tea and rubber estates will not affect
the need for this project component as it is GOSL's intention to con-
tinue to operate nationalized land on an estate basis.



- 15 -
of transport in the coconut sector limits the implementation of GOSL's policy
of extended undercropping. In 1974, GOSL resolved to allocate Rs. 5 H1 in
foreign exchange equivalent for the importation of about 150 trucks and
tractors for the estates, to temporarily alleviate the critical transport
constraints. As yet, however, GOSL has not been able to implement the
resolution.
4.21      The Project would provide for the importation of about 615 tractors
or lorries for transport on tea, rubber and coconut estates as well as for
green-leaf transport to bought-leaf factories. These imports, together
with the proposed GOSL inputs, would be sufficient to meet immediate mini-
mum transport requirements; they would not increase production of tea.  In
addition, the Project would provide for the importation of about 150 motor-
cycles for estate supervision. Funds would also be made available for
the provision of spare parts to rehabilitate the existing transport fleet.
Allocation of vehicles would be the responsibility of the Tea Controller
Department, the Rubber Controller Department and the Coconut Development
Authority - (for proposals as procurement see Annex 13). These agencies would
ensure that vehicles would be allocated to factories ,rocessing smallholder
leaf and to estates with a satisfactory management record.  Tlo vehicles would
be allocated to factories processing leaf from marginal areas or to estates
which are subject to diversification (para 2.11). Assurances have been
obtained that estates will have access to the necessary commercial credit
and that, after project disbursement has been completed, foreign exchange
for the importation of spare and replacement parts will continue to be made
available by GOSL to keep the rehabilitated transport fleet operational.
Provision of this additional transport would not per se lead to production
increases.
4.22      Smallholder tea production is characterized by low quality, re-
sulting from poor agronomic practices and irregular pluckling, and small-
holder rubber production by low qualitv end products. The extension ser-
vices of the Tea and Rubber Controller's Departments are responsible for
improving performance on smallholdings and also for the administration and
supervisiion of a large number of subsidy schemes. Inspection of the subsidy
programs takes priority. Increased mobility would mean that extension staff
would be able to devote more time to extension services to smallholders.
The Project would provide for the importation of about 145 motorcycles and
about 10 supervision vehicles for allocation amongst the Tea and Rubber Con-
troller's Department and the Coconut Development Authority. The motorcycles
would be sold to extension officers on credit as it is felt that this is
the best means of ensuring optimum care and maintenance (see para 4.04 for
necessary assurances). The proposed support to the tea industry has to be
seen against GOSL's program of large scale diversification (see para 2.11).
4.23      Improvement in tea and rubber processing is sponsored by GOSL
qilbgfyv nrograms, nart1o11.v financed tlirough ADB credits.  However, no such
support is available for the coconut processing industry. This industry,
primarily in private ownership, is characterized by numerous small, generally



- 16 -
poorly equipped units. Lack of spare parts adversely affects production per-
formance and quality of the end product. The Project would provide funds
for the importation of the most critical spare parts. A complete re-oroani-
zation of the inidustry might eventually become necessary but should await
clarification of production trends and hence raw material supply. The need
for a reorganiz5tion would be examined as part of the proposed smallholder
development proj27ct in the coconut production area (para 4.29(a) and Anrex 7).
Tree Crops Research (Annex 7)
4.24      Tree crop research is the responsibility of three research insti-tutes
under the control of the Ministry of Plantation Industries. Tea and rubber
research is financed through a cess on exports; coconut research is partly
financed by GOSL grant, partly by a cess. The Tea and Rubber Research In-
stitutes (TRI and RRI) render technical services and advice to the industry
based on applied research. Work of the Coconut Research Institute (CRI) tends
to be more academic than applied. TRI and CRI suffer from a lack of economic
evaluation capacity. All three institutes, but in particular the TRI and
CRI, lack basic laboratory and research equipment. The work on all three
is curtailed by lack of transport.
4.25      The purchase of much needed transport under the Project would be
closely linked to a parallel UNDP support. This support, to be executed
by FAO, would provide technical assistance in the field of economics,
research, and laboratory equipment. During negotiation it was agreed that
in order to assure that transport to be provided under the Project is effi-
ciently used, it would be a condition of disbursement against this component
that the aforementioned UNDP project be signed and that the Association be
given the opportunity to comment on terms of reference of consultants to be
employed by UNDP. 1/
E~p~1ainof Sugar Production (Annex 8)
4.26      Production of refined sugar commenced in the mid 1950's and is
based on two sugar schemes operated by the Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation
(SLSC). Cane production per acre has recently Increased to 40 t. The
cost of production at Rs 0.98/lb refined sugar, has been substantially
below import prices. SLSC has prepared detailed development plans for
the two schemes. ADB assistance has been obtained for one.
4.27      The second scheme, the Kantalai sugar project, covers an area of
9,600 -ac to be irrigated from a reservoir of 110,D00 ac feet storage. To
date 5,000 ac have been developed, an additional 3,100 ac have been cleared,
and 1,500 ac are still under jungle. Land development was delayed due to
1/   One of the primary responsibilities of the Agricultural Economist to
be provided by UNDP to the CRI would be the organization and supervision
of a pre-investment project in the coconut area (see para 4.29a).



- 17 -
water shortages which will be overcome with the completion of the Mahaweli-
Ganga Development Project I in early 1976. Lack of machinery prevented SLSC
from preparing the land in time for the arrival of the irrigation water.
Processing capacity of the factory is sufficient to handle potential production
from the total 9,600 ac.
4.28      The Project would provide for the importation of equipment to develop
4,600 ac, and for transport, communication equipment and workshop machinery
and tools. No funds would be used for procurement of factory equipment
and spares. The Management of the project has the necessary skills to
implement the expansion program.
Pre-Investment Studies (Annexes 7 and 9)
4.29      Because past agricultural planning has been concentrated on global
targets and emergency or crash programs, preparation of specific investment
projects has been lacking. The Project would make provision for importation
of necessary equipment and technical assistance to help develop two invest-
ment projects, namely:
(a) A smallholder development project in the coconut production area which
has been discussed by GOSL and the Bank for some time (Annex 7);
(b) The rehabilitation of the Lower Uva region planned by GOSL which,
as an initial step, has inaugurated a five-year plan calling for
irrigation development of 15,000 ac and the development of an
additional 15,000 ac for rainfed agriculture. The Project would
provide for equipment and technical assistance required for
development planning (Annex 9). The Association would be given
the opportunity to comment on the terms of reference of the
consultant.
Study of Pricing and Subsidy Systems affecting the Tree Crop Sector (Annex 6)
4.30      The traditional export sector remains very important to the country's
economic development (Annex 1 and 6). The sector is subject to numerous
supports, subsidies, controls and taxation, which, as is common in long
established industries, have grown from year to year over the last decades.
Their impact, cross influences, and cost to GOSL have never been fully analyzed.
The Project would provide assistance for a comprehensive study of economic
factors affecting the tree crop industry with the aim of providing GOSL with
a policy framework giving clear indications of various alternatives, such as
the trade-off between using the sector as a major source of taxation while at
the same time attempting to enhance exports and employment. The study, to
be carried out by GOSL, would also examine the special problems of housing
and nutrition of estate workers.  The Project would provide funds for the
recruitment of a consultant with qualifications acceptable to IDA, for
broad terms of reference see Annex 6, Appendix 1. During negotiations it
was agreed that it would be a condition of disbursement for any support to



- 18 -
the tree crop subsector that this study will have been started within six
months of signing of the Development Credit Agreement, through the recruit-
ment of the consultant.
Environmental Impact
4.31      The Project would have no adverse effect upon the environment.
Increased farm power would reduce water wastage and erosion. This would be
further supported by improved maintenance of irrigation networks controlled
by TCEO. As a result of project activities, water in irrigation tanks as
well as in the canal systemi would remain longer. This would not only pro-
vide water for household and animal needs but result in a better recharge
of groundwater with beneficial effects upon domestic wells.



- 19 -
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Detailed cost estimates of the Project are given in Annexes 2 to 9
and are summarized below:
Thousand Rupees         Thousand US Dollars
Foreign
Cost Items       Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
Dept. of Agriculture
(a) Research,
Training,
Extension        30,430   15,870  46,300  4,430   2,310   6,740        34
(b) Seed Production  9,070    8,620  17,690  1,320   t9255   2,575         49
Farm Power            17,485   23,495  40,980  2,545   3,420   5,965        57
Ministry of Irrigation,
Power and Highways
(a) TCEO            84,710   33,765 118,475 12,330   4,915  17,245         28
(b) DI4E             17,795   17,795  35,590  2,590   2,590   5,180        50
(c) DI                3,915    3,780   7,695    570      550   1,120       49
Ministry of Planta-
tation Industries
(a) On-Estate
Transport &
Processing      27,890   29,335  57,225  4,960   4,270   8,330         51
(b) Extension           550    1,200   1,750      80     175      255      69
(c) Research         12,505    5,460  17,965  1,820      795   2,615       30
SLSC                  11,750   10,305  22,055  1,710   1,500   3,210        47
Lower Uva Project      4,120    3,810   7,930    600       555   1,155       48
Technical Assistance  4,670   12,330  17,000    680   1,795   2,475         72
Sub Total        224,890  165,765 390,655 32,735  24,130  56,865         44
Price Contingencies   4,845   20,265  25,110    705   2,950   3,655         81
GRAND TOTAL       229,735  186,030 415,765 33,440  27,080  60,520         45



- 20 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal; and relate
to prices in May 1975. No physical contingencies have been applied. Price
contingencies were applied on the basis of projected inflation rates affec-
ting prices of imported equipment, machinery,and spare parts and costs of civil
works over the two vear project period.1/ Since the Project provides assistance
to ongoing programs for which GOSL support is assured, only incremental costs
have been included (for incremental GOSL contribution see para 5.05): In
estimating equipment requirements, Dngoing or planned bilateral and multi-
lateral aid schemnes have been taken into account, so has the absorptive
capacity of the agencies concerned.
B.  Proposed Financing
5.03      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 415.7 (US$60.5 M) would
come from the following sources:
Thousand US Dollars
Farmers,
SLSC,      Extension
TRI/c      Staff &
IDA    UJNDP-= GOSL-  RRI& CRI  Estate Sector  Total
Department of Agriculture
(a) Research, Training,
Extension               2,325    270    4,340         -          295            7,230
(b) Seed Production         1,427     -      1,330        -           20            2,777
Farm Power                  3,890     -        -          -        2,545            6,435
Ministry of Irrigation,
Power and Highways
(a) TCEO                    5,590     -    12,800         -           -            18,390
(b) DME                     2,945     -      2,590        -           -             5,535
(c) DI                        625     -        570        -                         1,195
Ministry of Plantation
Industries
(a) On-Estate Transport
& Processing           4,815      -        -                  4,060             8,875
(b) Extension                 240     -        -          -           80              320
(c) Research                 260    565        -       1,820         -             2,645
SLSC                        1,705     -        -       1,710         -              3,415
Lower Uva Project             628     -        600        -           -             1,228
Technical Assistances
& Fellowships               550  1.245        680        -          -              2,475
TOTAL                25,000  2,080   22,910    3,530         7,000           60,520
Percent.of Total              41      3        38        6           12              100
Net of tax                 25,000  2,080   13,140         -           -            40,220
Percent of Total              62      5        33         -           -              100
/a   First three years of a five year program, subject to revision.
T7   Includes local cost contribution to Project and to UNDP projects plus FEEC's
and import taxes.
/c   Represents FEEC's and import taxes.
1/   Price contingencies                     2nd half 1975    1976    1977
Equipment                                6%           10%      8%
Civil Works                              8%           14%     12%



- 21 -
5.04      IDA Contribution.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$25 M would fi-
nance about 41% of total project costs or 62% of project costs net of
taxes. Except for minor items to be financed by UNDP, IDA financing
would cover all direct foreign exchange expenditures, and the foreign
exchange cost of consultant services as set out in Annexes 4, 5, 6 and 8.
The major part of IDA funds (US$15.7 I1) would be channelled to Government
and quasi-government institutions, namely, the Ministry of Agriculture
(Department of Agriculture and the SLSC), the Iiinistry of Irrigation,
Power and Highways (TCEO, ME and DI) and the Ministry of Plantation
Industries (the Tea Control Department, Rubber Control Department, the
Coconut Development Authority and the Tea, Rubber and Coconut Research
Institutes) under the supervision of a Project Coordinating Committee which
would be established (para 6.01). IDA funds for the purchase of vehicles
and spare parts for on-estate transport (US$4.3 M) and new agricultural
tractors (US$2.2 M) and for the provision of spare parts for the existing
agricultural tractors (US$1.8 M), would be channelled through either
the SLTC, responsible for the importation of tractors, tractor implements
and tractor spare parts, or through resident supplier agents. As agreed
in principle with GOSL, commercial banks, as well as the People's Bank and
the Bank of Ceylon, would provide credit (Rupees), up to 80% of the retail
price at prevailing interest rates, with repayment over 5 years to farmers,
estates and bought-leaf factories if required for the-purchase of new
vehicles. Assurances have been obtained that these credit facilities will
be available. Further assurances were obtained that refinancing by the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka will be available for up to 75% of the total farm
credit. Refinancing would be required for five years, with repayment to
coincide with the scheduled collection of loans made by banks. IDA funds
for spares for the coconut processing industry (US$0.5 M), would be channelled
through the Coconut Development Authority. Technical Assistance (US$0.5 M)
would be allocated to the different line ministries' involved.
5.05      Government Contribution.  GOSL's financial contribution (US$23 M)
for farm buildings, seed storage, incremental 0 & M contribution to TCEO
during the estimated two-year disbursement period, local cost for technical
assistance and for the proposed UNDP projects, and for payment of FEEC's and
duties, would finance about 38% of project costs. Contribution from quasi
government institutions would be about US$3.5 M. Net of taxes, GOSL's con-
tribution would be US$13.1 M equivalent or 33% of total costs. Government
and quasi government contributions do not take account of long-term commitments
by GOSL to maintain equipment provided under the project or to continue
increased 0 & M allocation after completion of project disbursement for which
assurances would be sought.
5.06      UNDP and Private Sector Contribution.  The UNDP contribution of
US$2.1 M for technical assistance and minor equipment would finance about
3% of project costs 1/. The contribution of farmers, extension staff (who
would be sold motorcycles), estates and the coconut processing industry to
the project is estimated at US$7 M and covers 12% of project costs. These
contributions would consist of payment of FEEC's and import duties.
1/   This is an estimate as the precise costs for the UNDP project to assist
the tree crop institution is not yet known.



22 -
C. Procurement
5.07      The main items to be financed under the Project would be spare
parts for tractors, trucks and machinery, new vehicles and new tractors.
Spare parts for existing vehicles and tractors (US$1.6 M), equipment owned
by DME (US$2.9 M) and the coconut processing industry (US$0.5 M) would be
purchased directly from suppliers and would be sold to the end user on a
cash basis. Farm tractors (US$2.2 M) and vehicles for the estate sector
(US$4.4 M) including 10% for spares, would be imported on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement
procedures would take account of the need for standardization of the tractor
fleet and in particular of individual estate fleets. Consideration would also
be given to the availability of repair and maintenance facilities. Annex 13
provides details of the proposed procedure to select suitable and required
makes. Imports would be handled by either the SLTC or the resident supplier
agents. Transport and equipment for TCEO (US$5.6 M), motorcycles for
extension officers and transport for all other governmental organizations
(US$7.3 M) would be grouped and purchased by the appropriate agency under
I.C.B. in accordance with IDA guidelines. Minor equipment items valued at
less than US$100,000 would be purchased through normal trade channels.
Assurances were obtained from GOSL that for all contracts for the importation
of new machinery and equipment in excess of US$100,000, technical specifications
and draft tender documents will be submitted to IDA before bidding documents
are issued and bid evaluations will be submitted to IDA before making awards.
Importation for the rehabilitation of the existing tractor and equipment
fleet would be placed in bulk but spares would be released by GOSL on the
basis of the capacity of existing facilities to undertake repair work.
Importation of new farm tractors, transport vehicles and equipment would be
staggered, based on quantities manufacturers are able to supply within a
given timeframe. It is expected that equipment would arrive over a period
of 24 months.
5.08      Technical assistance specialists provided for SLTC (US$200,000),
DME (US$100,000), the Lower Uva Development Program (US$200,000) and the
Tree Crop Incentive Study (US$50,000) would be recruited by the Ministry
concerned in accordance with IDA guidelines for the selection of consultants.
D. Disbursement
5.09      Disbursement from the proposed project would be against 100% of
cif costs of imported equipment, machinery and spare parts and 100% of for-
eign exchange costs for technical assistance. Any savings arising from one
project component would be reallocated to others as mutually agreed between
GOSL and IDA. It is estimated that disbursement would be over a 30 months
period (Annex 11).



- 23 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would be with
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (MPEA), with execution of
individual project components through participating Ministries. Inter-
ministerial coordination, supervision and monitoring would be ensured through
a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be established under the chair-
manship of the Director, External Resources Division, MPEA. PCC would be
assisted in its task by a team of Government staff assigned to work as a
secretariat on a full time basis. Members of the Committee would be repre-
sentatives of the Ministries directly concerned with project components
namely: the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, the Ministry of Plantation
Industries, and the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways; as well as
the Central Bank of Ceylon (CB). It has been agreed that the establishment
of the Committee be a condition of effectiveness. Furthermore, the project
implementation schedule in Annex 12 was agreed upon.
6.02      Specifically, PCC would be responsible for, inter alia, resolving
all issues in the administration of the project; approving project plans;
coordinating the preparation of tender documents for ICB; allocating vehicles
and equipment to different line Ministries; supervision of line Ministries
and their subordinate departments to ensure that vehicles and equipment
imported under the project would be used for the purposes intended; guiding
technical assistance programs; coordinating GOSL activities supported by
the project with those of UNDP or other donor agencies; and advising GOSL
on follow-up projects and programs. It was agreed that PCC would be made
responsible for monitoring the impact of the Project in order to help the
Government and-the Association in project evaluation and future project
preparation.  Broad outlines of the methods for such monitoring were agreed
upon, details will be finalized during the first project supervision mission.
&.03      To support PCC, technical subcommittees would be established within
the three line Ministries most directly concerned with the project (para
6.01). These subcommittees, to be established in agreement with PCC, would
be responsible for technical advice on the implementation of the project
subcomponents including the establishment of priorities in allocating
farm tractors and vehicles going to the estate sector (Annex 13). They would
also be responsible for technical supervision of project activities and for
monitoring subproject implementation. Membership of the technical subcommittees
would depend upon the nature of the task but might include the departments
of the Ministries concerned, the import agencies (for example, the SLTC or
the resident supplier's agents), rural banks and other technical units which
are able to assist.
6.04      The PCC would submit quarterly progress reports to IDA which would
be based on reports of the technical subcommittees. The PCC would also pro-
vide IDA with information regarding GOSL budgetary allocation supporting
the various project subcomponents and on the provision of UNDP inputs.



- 24 -
6.05      GOSL and trhe participating government agencies will maintain
separate records which will reflect operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project. For this purpose special accounts would be
established and PCC would be respDnsible to submit to IDA quarterly statements
and an annual, gow-ernment audited, statement for each of the individual
accounts or finaiucial statements kept by the participating agencies. The
quarterly PCC statements should also show GOSL contribution to the Project
(i.e. buildings and seed storage on Government farms, incremental operational
and maintenance costs for TCEO) aad local support for technical assistance
which would be financed through the GOSL budget.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The primary project benefits would be an early and sustained in-
crease in foodgrain and sugar production and at the same time increased
benefits from the export sector by improvement of the quality of tree crop
products.   This would effect very considerably long run foreign exchange
earnings and savings through import substitution as well as having a
substantial impact on employment (for details see Annex 14).
7.02      The support to the Department of Agriculture, resulting in improved
farm services, would have a considIerable but not easily measurable impact upon
production. The seed improvement program would result in substantial yield
increases; certified seed would increase yields per acre by at least 5% in
the case of paddy and by 15% for pulses and other foodgrains. Incremental
production of rice resulting from distribution of improved seed is estimated
at around 75,000 t or nearly one quarter of present imports. Incremental
production of other foodgrains andl pulses would be substantial for example:
maize 6,000 t, sorghum 3,500 t and grams 5,500 t (Annex 3, paras 17 and 18).
7.03      The rehabilitation of 1,600 farm tractors and the importation of new
units would increase the area which could be mechanically tilled by around
200,000 ac during the Maha season. Due to timely tillage, Maha crop yields
would increase and, due to water conservation resulting from dry ploughing
and dry seeding, double cropping would be possible on about 30% of the
land mechanically tilled during M&aha (Annex 4). The estimated incremental
production would be 45,000 t of rice annually at full development.
7.04      Improvements and expanslon of irrigation networks would be pro-
vided through assistance to the M:Lnistry of Irrigation and its sub-units
TCEO, DME and DI. Improved water management through better irrigation
maintenance and operation resulting from greater mobility of TCEO staff
and greater availability of funds to TCEO is estimated to result in a 5%
increase in paddy production (Annex 5). The rehabilitation of DME equip-
ment would allow an estimated 4,000 ac of additional irrigation construction
per annum (Annex 5). Support to ])I would advance completion of the drainage-
irrigation schemes by 2 years (Annex 5). This would lead to an estimated
incremental production of a further 40,000 t of rice.



- 25 -
7.05      Sugar cultivation on the Kantalai project, currently restricted to
4,000 ac, would be expanded to 9,600 ac through provision of limited amounts
of machinery and equipment and would lead to an increase in production of
11,500 t of refined sugar (Annex 8).
7.06      In summary, the support to the food crop subsector costed at
US$31 M net of ta,es, would result in an estimated production increase from
about year six after project effectiveness of 155,000 t of rice, 15,000 t
of cereals and pulses, and 11,500 t of sugar. The approximate value of these
commodities at projected world market prices in constant dollars would be
about US$41 M per annum. Quantitatively this incremental production would
be equivalent to over 40% of total current rice imports and to 20% of recent,
sharply reduced sugar imports. Additional production increases could be
expected through the improved activities of the Department of Agriculture,
particularly extension services.
7.07      Measuring the incremental benefits which would arise out of the
support to the tree crop subsector (US$4.8 M) is particularly difficult
(Annex 6 paras 42 to 44). Project support would primarily help improving
quality of processing through reduction in deterioration of raw material during
transport from field to factory, or through rehabilitation of processing
equipment. Given GOSL's overall diversification policies, increased
market returns resulting from this support should improve Sri Lanka's foreign
exchange earnings. Apart from the monetary value of quality improvement, the
big positive impact would be the general improvement in the financial position
of the estate sector with resultant greater assurance of employment for tea
pluckers and rubber tappers. Transport for the bought leaf factories would
be essential to smallholder tea producers and would complement the proposed
improvement in extension activities.
7.08      On-estate transport would also help reduce foreign exchange ex-
penditure through reduction of fossil fuel (imported) requirements of tea
factories in favor of solid fuel (local wood supply). Savings to the
factories themselves would be around Rs 17/100 lb made tea or 7% of the
cost of production (Annex 6, Para. 43).
7.09      Due to the nature of the Agricultural Development Project no rate
of return has been calculated. The existence of high sunk costs in relation
to incremental investment would imply an unusually high rate of return.
For example the rehabilitation of one farm tractor at a total cost of US$600
would result within one year in incremental paddy production of 40 tons of
rice, equivalent to foreign exchange savings of US$9,750 for the remaining
life of 'the tractor (Annex 4).
Number of Beneficiaries
7.10      The various project components provided to support food production
would affect the majority of paddy farmers in the Dry Zone, estimated at some



- 26 -
320,000 families. Benefits would vary from case to case, basically being a
combination of improved services, better seed, access to farm power and better
water availability.
7.11      In the tree crop subsectorc immediate beneficiaries would be the
public and private estates, tea smallholders and coconut producers. Indirectly
the support would go considerably further through increased income and greater
assurance of employment for tea pluckers and rubber tappers, the poorest seg-
ment of Sri Lanka's rural population.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations the fcllowing major points were agreed to:
(a)  GOSL would make necessary provision for continued
availability of replacements and of spare parts
to maintain the farm power and on-estate transport
fleets at the levels to which they have been brought
as a result of the Credit (paras 4.01, 4.10 and 4.21);
(b)  GOSL would provide funds for the construction of seed
storage facilities on the 42 Government Seed Farms
(para 4.07);
(c)  after completion of disbursement, foreign exchange would
be made available by GOSL to the Department of Agricul-
ture and to other Government departments to allow proper
operation and maintenance of equipment and machinery
provided to them (para 4.04);
(d) medium term credit facilit:ies would be made available to
farmers, estates and bought-leaf factories for the purchase
of new tractors and trucks (para 4.21 and 5.04);
(e)  re-financing facilities by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
would be made available to commercial banks which extend
credit for the purchase of tractors and trucks (para
5.04);
(f)  credit arrangements would be made available to allow
extension officers to purchase motorcyles (paras 4.04
and 4.22);
(g)  funds to TCEO for the maintenance of iLrrigation networks
would be raised, not later than 1969, to levels allowing
proper operations and maintenance, this level is estimated
at Rs 50/acre/annum in current terms (paras 4.13 and 5.05);



.7 _
(h)  c'^nsultants to be appointed to assist SLTC, DME
and the Lower Uva Development Team would have
qualifications acceptable to IDA (paras 4.11 and
4.15);
(i)  the consultant to assist DME would be appointed
not later than six months after the date of
signature of the Development Credit Agreement
(para 4.15).
8.02      The following Conditions of disbursement against specific Project
components were agreed to:
(a)  in the case of support to the research, training and
extension activities of the Department of Agriculture,
as well as in the case of support to the three Tree
crop research institutes, agreements on the necessary,
complementary UNDP projects have been signed (paras
4.05 and 4.25);
(b)  in the case of support to the tree crop subsector,
the study of the effects of subsidies and taxation
on production, export earnings and Government
revenues would have started through the
recruitment of a consultant with qualifications
acceptable to IDA (paras 4.30 and 8.02 (i));
(c)  in the case of financing imports of spare and replacement
parts for DME, the Department's proposal for the importation
spare and replacement parts have been approved by the
Association (para 4.15).
8.03      The following condition of project effectiveness was agreed to:
the Project Coordinating Committee, responsible for
overall co-ordination and supervision of the Project,
has been established (para 6.01).
8.05      Given the above assurances, the Project is suitable for an IDA
allocation of US$25 M.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.        Structural change in Sri Lanka's economy has been very limited
over the past decade, with agriculture remaining the mainstay of the
economy (Table 1).
Table 1: AGRICULTURE'S SHARE OF THIE ECONOMY (% OF TOTAL)
1963  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974
Employment                                 53   n.a.   51    50   n.a.  n.a.
GDP (constant 1959 factor cost prices)   41    35    34    34    33    33
GDP (current factor cost prices)           38    34    33    32    33    42
Exports                                    94    90    86    85    78    72
Source:  Department of Census and Statistics, Central Bank Annual Reports.
The Bank has studied the agricultural sector in some depth and has recently
published the following reports:
(a) "Agricultural Sector Survey, Republic of Sri Lanka,"
Report No. PA-134, February 1973;
(b) "Agricultural Policy and Program Review," Report No.
5791a CE, February 1975.
It is therefore not necessary to repeat the findings of these reports.
Hence this Annex only updates and modifies tables which may have changed
in the light of more recently available data and includes some additional
information (for example, production targets).
2.        Marked differences in climate and soil divide the country into two
agricultural zones, 1/ the Wet zone, covering the southwest 30%, and the Dry
Zone in the north and east. In the Wet Zone, where elevation rises to over
8,000 feet, rainfall is quite evenly distributed throughout the year, aver-
aging 75-200 inches annually. Most soils are red-yellow podsolic. In the
1/   The so-called intermediate zone which is sometimes distinguished, con-
sists of semi-dry areas where climatological conditions and soils are
similar to the Dry Zone and semi-wet areas that are similar to Wet
Zone areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Dry zone rainfall averages 35-75 inches annually concentrated during the
northeast monsoon from September through Janlary. Soils are mainly red-
dish-brown earths, terrains are undulating.
3.        The Wet Zone, with 75% of the rural population, is densely popu-
lated and accounts for 70% of total cropland area. It produces virtually
all of the export tree crops--tea, rubber and coconut--and accounts for
about half of all paddy and other cropland. The Dry Zone is sparsely
settled but has the greatest potential for expanded agricultural produc-
tion, either irrigated or rainfed (Table 3).
4.        Paddy, the most important staple crop, and other annual crops are
produced mainly on small holdings. Forty-eight percent of these holdings
are less than one ac and 88% are under 5 ac. The average is about 2.5 ac.
Production of paddy (Table 4) and other annual crops is exclusively for
domestic consumption but is insufficient to meet requirements of a popula-
tion growing at an average rate of 2% (1968-74). In fact, the self-suffi-
ciency ratio for all foodgrains increased only slightly and Sri Lanka has
been dependent upon imports for about 50% of its foodgrain requirements
since 1970 (Table 5).
5.        Production of tree crops (Table 6), concentrated in the Wet Zone,
is mainly for export. The tree crop sector provides the bulk of Sri Lanka's
foreign exchange earnings (Tables 7 and 8a), nearly half of all agricultural
employment and about 40% of the value added in the agricultural sector.
However, as a result of declining production and deteriorating terms of trade
(Table 9) the share of traditional exports in total commodity exports has
declined. While there are a considerable number of smallholders, tea, and
to a lesser extent rubber production, is dominated by estates. In 1972 1/
holdings over 10 ac accounted for 82% of the land in tea, and for 69% of
that in rubber. Coconuts are grown extensively in all settled areas with
about 50% of total acreage in holdEngs of less than 10 ac. Of the total
production an increasing share is consumed locally, yet exports of coconut
products (coconut oil, dessicated coconut or copra) still account for over
10% of export earnings.
6.        Livestock, fisheries, and forestry are of minor importance.  Their
production, only 13% of total values added in the agricultural sector, is for
the domestic market and despite low per capita consumption imports are re-
quired to satisfy demand.
7.        Production Targets.  The 1972-76 Five-Year Development Plan estab-
lished ambitious targets to agricuLtural production (Table 2). These tar-
gets have not been met and for some time the plan has generally been regarded
as obsolete. The revised production targets 1/ (Table 2) for the years
1975-77 are considerably lower than the original targets but considering
actual performance in recent years are unlikely to be met either.
1/   Prior to the Land Reform which established ceilings on privately held
lands.
2/   Ministry of Planning.



SRI LANX~A
AGRICULTUPAE DTEVELOPINT PROJECT
TABL, 2: GOSL PRODUCTIOII TARGETS
1975-1977
1970      1973       1974      1975          1976          1976       1977
(Actual) (Actual) (Actual) (Revised (Original Plan (71evised (revised
Ta_rge_t)   Target)        Target)   Target)
Paddy
(Gross extent sown ('000 acres)    1,878       1,792    2,038       2,188        2,031          2,362      2,408
Yield per acre (bushels) a/         51.3       4h.6      45.7        52.7         72.3           5o.7       52.7
Production (N bushels)              77.5        62.9     76.8        90.6        116.0           94.5      100.1
Tea
Pro-21iction (E lbs)                 468         466      h50         470          551            480        492
Exports (M lbs)                       460        454       387        430          511            440        L52
Rubber
Production (M lbs)                   351         3h0      301         369          400            376        380
Exports (M lbs)                       35         354       283        355          380            360        362
Coconut
Production (M nuts)                2,510       1,935-  2,031         n.ao        3,000           n.a.     2,750
Exports (M nuts equivalent)           880        422       468       nta.        1,300           n.a.       n.a.
Sugar
Production (Tons)                  8,100      12,000   19,000        n.a.       >',000           n.a.      n.a.
Subsidiary Food Crops ('000 ac)        466         675     n.a.         890          n.a.         1,070     1,220
a/N1et acre harvested                            .                                                                          at
HS  C
Source: Central Bank Annual Report, Ministry of Planning, Development Plan J



ANNEX 1
Table 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: LAND USE IN DRY AND WET ZONES, 1970
('000 acres)
Wet Zone      Dry Zone      Total
Cropland
Tea                                    635            -            635
Rubber                                 561            -            561
Coconuts                               516           115          631
Rice                                   631           744         1,375
Mixed farming /a                     1,005           380         1,385
Other /b                                -            360           360
Sub-total                  3,348         1,599        4,947
Non-agricultural /c                          980        5,680         6,660
Potential for development                    254        4,367         4,621
Total Area                 4,582       11,646        16,228
/a   Includes most of smallholder coconut.
/b   Land extensively used with occasional cropping.
/c   Includes reserved forest lancl, catchment, water bodies,
rivers, urban areas, and waste land.
Source:   Division of Land Use, Ministry of Irrigation Highways
and Power, 1971.



A T'T',X17
13 ble 4
ht N-'IC iJLTT J - L DNWILPE, TVp,  ,V,i-''
1959/60  1968/69  1969/70 1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74
Acreage ('000)
Gross Extent Sown      1,468    1,709    1,878    1,794    1,794    1,792    2,038
Gross Extent Harvested 1,398    1,539    1,776    1,711    1,579    1,660    1,925
Damaged Area              70      169       99       79      208      161       113
Area Under Lmproved
Varieties
Maha                n.a.      809      907      832      872       891    1,078
Yala                n.a.      300      418      372      380       282      507
Total              n.a.    1,109    1,325    1,204    1,252    1,173    1,585
Fertilizer Use
('000 tons)           n.a.     84.7    88.1    89.4    80.6    96.8   124.4
Yields Per Acre (bu)
Maha                    36.1    51.2    52.2    44.9    48.1    45.5           47.7
Yala                    36.8     48.0     49.8     47.7     44.5    42.8       41.7
Average            36.3    50.3    51.3    45.9    46.9    44.6          45.7
Production (mil bu)
Maha                    26.3    47.0    49.5    41.6    42.3         42.0    52.6
Yala                    16.7     18.9     28.0    25.3    20.6    20.9    24.2
Total          43.0    65.9    77.5    66.9    62.9    62.9    76.8
Cropping Intensity-
(%)                    162      150      159      157      152      153       150
a/ Total harvested acreage of paddy divided by Maha harvested acreage.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, Central Bank Annual Reports.



A TIMEX 1
Table 5
S-I lU'TKA
AGCTUItJLTUPTRAL DF,7J0LOPiTT PF''CXI
TABLE 5: PROBUCTIOIT, IrcP7TS, TOT' L STTPPLY
ANI) SFLF-SUMFIC=C'TZCY L' itUUD G14JLS
('000 tons)
1960     1970     1971      1972     1973      1974
A.  Rice Production           528      952      822       773      772       926
B.  Imports, total            677      949       751      676      782       812
1.  Rice                  532      526      339       262      338       297
2.  Wheat                   -       54       82        90       79        74
3.  Wheat flour           145      369      330       324      365      441
C.  Total Supply (A+B)      1,205    1,901    1,573    1,449    1,554    1,738
D.  Self-sufficiency (%)
Rice (A/A+B.1)             50       64       71        75       70        76
Rice & Wheat (A/C)        44        50       52        53       50       53
a/ Net production adjusted for seed and waste.
Source:  Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, based on data from Food
Commissioner's Department.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: TEA, RUBBER, COCONUT - PRODUCTION, EXPORTS, ACREAGES AND YIELDS
1970     1971      1972      1973     1974
TEA
Production (mil. lb.)            468       480      471       466       450
Exports (mil. lb.)               460       443      419       454       387
Gross Acreage ('000)             597       597      598       599       598
Yields per acre (lb.) /a         784       804       788      778       753
RUBBER
Production (mil. lb.)            351       312      309       340       301
Exports (mil. lb.)               354       285      286       354       283
Gross Acreage ('000)             569       568      567       565       563
Yield per acre /b                707       657      658       694       701
COCONUT
Production (mil. nuts)         2,510    2,610    2,963    1,935    2,031
Exports Total:
(mil. nuts equivalent)         880    1,019    1,258       422       468
Coconut Oil
('000 Cwts)                  1,142    1,388    1,709        361      430
Desiccated Coconut
('000 Cwts)                    967    1,043       973       742      838
Copra
('000 Cwts)                    305      344       872        55        8
Yields per acre (nuts)         2,289    2,444    2,688    1,997    2,080
/a   Production divided by gross acreage.
/b   Mature area only.
Source: Central Bank Annual Report, Coconut Cultivation Board.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
SR" LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7: BALANCE OF TRADE ON AGRICULTURAL AND OTHER PRODUCTS
(US$ Million)
1960   1963   1970   1971   1972    1973    1974
Agricultural
/a
Major Tree Crop Exports       348    335    302    290    274       314      374
Food Imports                  145    160    181    148    138       201      310
Balances                203    175    121    142    136        113      64
Other Products
Exports                        25     24      33     49     49       88      142
Imports                       267    224    208    186    197       225      373
Balance                -242   -200   -175   -137   -148    -137    -231
All Products
Exports                       373    359    335    339    323       402      516
Imports                      412    384    389    334    335        426     683
Balance                 -39    -25    -54    + 5    -12        -24    -167
/a   Tea, Rubber, and Major Coconut Products.
Source:   Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.



ANNEX 1
Tables 8a, 8b
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8a: COMPOSITION OF IMPORTS (US$ Million)
1970          1971         1972          1973        1974
US$       Z   US$       %  US$       %  US$       %  US$
Rice                   57      14.7   33    9.9   26    7.8   42   9.9  108   15.8
Flour                  43      11.1   35   10.5   31    9.3   71  16.7  129   18.9
Sugar                  29       7.5   41   12.3   40   11.9   50  11.7   28    4.1
Other Food             52      13.2   39   11.6   41   12.2   38   8.9   45    6.6
Sub-Total Food    181        46.5  148   44.3  138   41.2  201  47.2  310   45.4
Other Imports         208      53.5  186   55.7  197   58.8  225  52.8  373   54.6
of Which:
(Fertilizer)         (14)    (3.6) (10)  (3.0) (10)  (3.0) (17) (4.0) (33)  (4.8)
(Petroleum
Products)          (10)    (2.6) ( 4)  (1.2) ( 6)  (1.8) (46)(10.8)(136) (19.9)
(Investment Goods) (92)   (23.7) (70) (21.0) (71) (21.2) (71)(16.9) (69) (10.1)
Total Imports       389    100.0  334  100.0  335  100.0  426 100.0  683  100.0
Source:   Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, Central Bank Annual Reports.
Table 8b: COMPOSITION OF EXPORTS (US$ Million)
1970         1971         1972          1973         1974
US$    X    US$    Z    US$    %    US$    %    U15          X
Tea                   188  56.1   192  56.6   188  58.2   198  49.3   204  39.5
Rubber                 74  22.1    52  15.3    43  13.3    93  23.1   111  21.5
Coconut Products       40  11.9    46  13.6    43  13.3    23   5.7    59  11.5
Sub-Total       302  90.1   290  85.5   274  84.8   314  78.1   374  72.5
Other Exports          33   9.9    49  14.5    49  15.2    88  21.9   142  27.5
335 100.0   339 100.0   323 100.0   402 100.0   516 100.0
Source:   Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.



ANNEX 1
Tables 9, 10
SRI' LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: EXPORT AND IMPORT PRICE INDEX, TERMS OF TRADE
(1970-74)        (base 1967 = 100)
Export Price         Import Price          Terms of
Index                Index              Trade    /a
1970                 118                   140                  84
1971                 117                   150                  78
1972                 118                   158                  75
1973                 137                   209                  65
1974                 213                   370                  58
/a   Export Price Index
Import Price Index x 100
Source: Central Bank Annual Report, 1974.
Table 10: PRICES OF SELECTED IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
1971      1972       1973        1974
Imports (c.i.f., Rs/ton)
Rice                                  562        544       953        2,686
Wheat                                 440        432        646        1,464
Wheat Flour                           629        667      1,254       2,124
Sugar                                 844      1,168     1,752        5,486
Pulses                                921      1,076      1,269        n.a.
Urea                                  470        501       630        1,730
Ammonia Sulphate                      225        266        362          852
Exports (f.o.b.)
Tea (Rs/lb)                           2.50       2.77       2.78         3.52
Rubber(Rs/lb)                         1.08        .93       1.68         2.61
Copra (Rs/Candy)                    347.72    296.40    324.25        566.91
Coconut Oil (Rs/ton)                 2,142      1,549      1,489        6,573
Desiccated Coconut (Rs/lb)             .88        .72       1.34         2.68
Source: Central Bank Annual Report, Fertilizer Corporation, Food
Commissioner's Department.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPORT TO THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Introduction
1.        The Department of Agriculture, the executive arm of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Lands, is responsible for agricultural research, training
extension, seed multiplication and certification, and plant protection
services. The Department operates 65 Government farms, 3 main research
stations and 18 smaller satellite stations, an agricultural training institute
and eight practical farm training schools. In addition, the Department main-
tains one large central machinery and equipment workshop and 4 field repair
workshops. A farm machinery research center is responsible for testing and
designing farm equipment, machinery and tools and a farm Mechanization Train-
ing Center is responsible for training extension personnel as well as farmers
and tractor operators. Finally, the Department has responsibility for the
development of animal husbandry, including research, A.I., and animal health.
Responsibility for tree crop research rests with the 3 tree crop research
institutes (Annex 7). The Department is physically removed from the Ministry,
being in Peradeniya near Kandy, and enjoys a considerable amount of indepen-
dence; it operates under a director. Chart 1 gives an outline of the present
organization of the Department.
Present Organization
Research
2.        The Research Division, headed by an Assistant Director, has on-
going research programs in plant breeding, agronomy, entomology, pathology
and soil and water management. Research has, until recently, concentrated
on the agronomic aspects of rice cultivation, particularly rice breeding.
Little attention was given to other crops or to general land and water
management. The three main research stations are located one in each of
the three major climatic zones of the country, namely:
-    Peradeniya in the intermediate zone
-    Maha-Illuppallama in the dry zone
-    Sita Ellya in the wet zone.
3.        The smaller stations are distributed all over the island; they
have their own research programs, covering, for instance, cotton, dry
zone vegetables, rice breeding. All stations are poorly supplied with



ANNEX 2
Page 2
basic field and laboratory equipment, all lack transportation and many have
insufficient communication facilities. Senior research staff is generally
competent but many support staff Lack experience. Due to poor pay scales
and lack of equipment restricting work possibilities, turnover of staff is
high.
Training
4.        Training, under an Assistant Director, is currently provided at
four levels:
(a) at Kundasale, in the intermediate zone, a two-year course
for high school graduates covering crop husbandry, animal
husbandry, farm engineering, horticulture and rural home
management. The school has an annual intake of about 160.
Graduates from the school are the main source of recruits
for the extension service. Training is adequate but
hampered by lack of teaching facilities;
(b) at eight practical farm training schools offering one-year
courses for 50 to 60 students each. The training provided
tends to be too theoretical;
(c) short courses of 1 day to 3 weeks duration. These courses
are given for farmers at 14 district training centers
located on Department farms and focus on specific topics.
Training staff and equipment is barely adequate;
(d) in-service training for extension staff at the three main
research stations mentioned in para. 2 above. The training
provided is not enough and tends to be too general.
Extension
5.        The structure of the extension services at end 1974 was:
At Headquarters           One Deputy Director
Three Assistant Directors
Five Senior Agricultural Officers
In 22 Districts           22 District Agricultural Officers (DAEO)
plULS
4 additional District Agricultural Officers
In 230 Divisions          281 Agricultural Instructors (AI) and
1,150 Village Workers (KVS)
On average, each AI supervises 4 Village Workers and each village worker
supervises about 1000 ac. or 500 farm families. Major emphasis has been
given so far to paddy cultivation and contact between farmers and extension
staff was, until now, largely through the Cultivation Committees (CC). The



ANNEX 2
Page 3
effectiveness of extension services has been limited by lack of demonstra-
tion and transportation facilities and by the heavy administrative burden
placed on extension officers. Extension of use of improved rice varieties
has been quite successful. However, rice yields have not reached the
potential of the HYV's because of unreliable water supply and problems
frequently faced by smallholders in obtaining other inputs in time and
quantity required.
6.        The Department's extension services are not responsible for advice
on tree crop cultivation and management, and some agencies, such as the Sri
Lanka Tobacco Board, have established their own promotion and advisory serv-
ices.
The Need for Reorganization
7.        With the concentration of agricultural research, training and
extension services on rice cultivation, insufficient attention is given
to advising farmers on cultivation practices for other foodgrains, pulses,
vegetables, and oil seeds which traditionally are grown under a system of
shifting cultivation (Chena system). The services are also not equipped
to provide guidance on improving total farming patterns, i.e., a combina-
tion of paddy, upland, chena and, occasionally, tree crop cultivation.
Nor are the services geared to develop farming systems for the most effi-
cient use of land and water resources in different agro-climatic zones or
sub-regions.
8.        Government's concern about increasing self-sufficiency in food,
and in greater crop diversification culminated in the passing of the Agri-
cultural Productivity Law of 1972. 1/ Government also became increasingly
concerned about smallholders' income. The existing services, in their struc-
ture and orientation, are not in a position to support Government aims and
the continuing uneconomic use of land and water has clearly emerged as a
main constraint to improvement of agricultural production.
The Proposed Reorganization Program (Chart 2)
9.        MAL and, more specifically, the Department of Agriculture, have
realized the inefficiency of their present services and have drawn up a
detailed proposal for the reorganization of the Department's services.
This proposal, approved by Cabinet, provides for a closer integration and
a general strengthening of research, extension and training activities.
The firnal aim is the introduction of a system of optimum land use patterns,
crop varieties to be grown, fertilizer application, water use, based on
local ecological conditions.
1/   For a summary explanation of this Law, see IBRD Report No. 579a-CE,
paras 3.14 to 3.17.



ANNEX ?
Page 4
10.       mle  .nd TJse Divisi-; jf t'e Ministry   F Agriculture, supported
by tne Minist   of Irrigation, i s prey  el  an   ro-ecological map of Sri
Lanka - see ti  2.  In this,   ` Tanka is divided into three agro-ecological
zones viz.
the Wet Zone;
the Intermediatf ZLne; and.
the Dry Zone.
These zones are in ttvn subdivided 4nto -wenty-one agro-ecological regions
on the criteria of ail. s , and distributi.n of rainfall, elevation, and
soil characteristics (see Table 1).
11.       The proposal consequen_ly calls for .esearch to be decentralized
on the basis of agro-ecological zones. To implement the plan six to eight
research centres supported by satellite staticns would be established.
The immediate programme includes the development of 2 existing research
centres, Peradeniya and Maha-Ulluppalama, 2 new centres
(i) Angunukolapellessa, in the southern dry zone; and
(ii) Bandarawela in the intermediate zone
and 11 satellite stations.
The major thrust of the "new research" approach would be the development
and extension for each zone of:
(i) improved land use patterns, proper soil conservation
measures, optimum water use, management and con-
servation practices;
(ii) economic systems of multi-crop and mixed farming;
(iii' varietal testing and crop husbandry for all crops
to be grown in the regions;
(i , suitable farm tools, farm machinery, and farm
buildings.
Research, would be undertaken on the basis of a multi-disciplinary approach,
combinin. a_l agronomic, economic, social aspects necessary for the formula-
tion of an integrated development program. All research centres would be
closely 'inkr d to extension services and training for extension officers
and farm:,rs.  Lach Regional Research Centre would consequently be equipped
witn trai.ing facilities and a team of multi-disciplinary subject matter
extension specialists. Research activities on regional levels would be



ANNEX 2
Page 5
joined ventures between research centres and their satellite stations. The
Department of Agriculture would be responsible for overall coordination of
research programs, for facilitating exchange of research results, and for
avoiding duplication of activities.
12.       Training, thus far a part of the extension services, would be
elevated to an independent division level. The categories of trainees
would remain the same as at present, but farmer's training would be expanded
and training of extension officers, including in-service training, would
be strengthened and broadened. Training on land use and on-farm water
management would be initiated and given priority.
13.       Extension services would be completely re-organized to support
the program of Agricultural Productivity Centers (APC's) to be established
under the Agricultural Productivity Law of 1972. A total of about 480
APC's will be established, each with a standard designed Agricultural
Service Center and responsible for providing all Government services to
the farming community. About 5,500 Cultivation Committees (CC's) will
support the APC's. The new staffing program for extension services
foreseen for the end of 1975 would be:
(i)  each DAEO to be supported by additional Agricultural
Officers at the rate of one Officer to about 8 APC's,
a total of 58 Officers to be recruited by 1976;
(ii) one AI for each APC or an increase of 203 new posts;
(iii)  ideally one KVS for not more than two CC's but initially
restricted to a Planned total of 1,400 KVS, an increase
of 250.
14.       Reorganization of the Department has commenced.  In the 1975
budget 1/ allocation for recurrent expenditure and capital expenditure for
the Department have been considerably increased (see Table 2). This allowed
the Department to recruit an additional 51 research officers, sufficient to
meet immediate staff needs for the expanded research program. Extension
services were also strengthened and it is expected that about 500 new officers
will be employed by the end of 1975.
15.       The major constraint to the implementation of the reorganization
program is, however, lack of foreign exchange. In the 1975 budget, pro-
vision has been made for purchase of equipment and vehicles, valued at
RS 11.2 M (US$1.0 M). This is totally insufficient for an expanded pro-
gram of action and would cover no more than replacement of existing vehi-
cles and equipment. Yet the existing fleet of transport and of research,
training and extension services is insufficient. The implementation of
1/   Financial year in Sri Lanka is from January 1 to December 31.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
the reorganization -)rlj-am depends therefore upon foreign assistance tto
provide necessary cao'iti;l as well as research and training equipment.
16.       The ex.panded responsibility of the Department will also raise
problems of staff competence. Directorate and field staff of the Depart-
ment are well qualified for the traditional task undertaken. Assistance
would be required, however, in re-organizing research and in re-structuring
general c-,ganizatirn, planning and communications of the Department. GOSL
has for Qn e time discussed with UIDP the possibility of obtaining necessary
technical. and financial assistance. However, only the emergence of the pro-
posed ID,' sponsored Agricultural Development Project has led to concrete
propcsals. Implementation of the Department's development plans is now
envisaged ds a joined GOSL, UNDP, IDA venture. Under this IDA would provide
funds for imported farm machinery mnd transport, UNDP technical assistance,
fellowships, laboratory equipment, technical literature and other items (see
Table 3) and GOSL, in addition to already approved budget allocations, funds
for farm buildings and local costs of technical assistance.
Proect Suport
17.       The major aim of the Agricultural Development Project would be to
assist GOSL in achieving its foodgrain production targets. Support would be
given to increasing farm power availability (Annex 4); improving mobility of
TCEO staff to carry out supervision and maintenance of irrigation networks
(Annex 5); and expanding the machiniery park of the Department of Mac.hinery
-nd Equipment (MIPH) to permit more rapid and better reconstruction and re-
habilitation of irrigation works (Annex 5). This support will have to be
complemented by the co-ordinating and planning activities of the Department
of Agriculture. IDA has recently alppraised an Irrigation Rehabilitation Proj-
ect, the purpose of which is to set: up a model for efficient use of tank
water and of the land commanded by the tanks. The long range objective is to
extend the improved land/water use model to all tank commanded paddy fields
in the Dry Zone, estimated at around 950,000 ac. The Department of Agricul-
ture's reorganization plan would produce research and extension information
and trained extension officers to support this long range program.
18.       The key for improved extension services would be the KVS; each
one would be responsible for about 500 smallholders. Under the improved ex-
tension service KVS's would establish permanent visiting programs under which
they would visit contact farmers, selected on the basis of their progressive
attitude and status as opinion leaclers. Visits would be made at specific
pre-determined dates. This would e-nable the KVS to work with the farmers
throughout the complete cropping season, covering all stages of cropping
activities. Neighboring farmers would be encouraged to partake in the visits
of the KVS who would demonstrate crop husbandry and general land and water
use aspects. However, during any one visit or round of visits only specific
extension tasks would be dealt with. It would be the task of the KVS to
mobilize the CCts in his area to participate in demonstration and in encour-
aging special, purely extension oriented, meetings of its members.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
19.       KVS's would be trained through regular one day courses in, say,
fortnightly intervals throughout the cultivation season. Each session would
deal with only those tasks to be extended during the subsequent two weeks.
Prior to the beginning of the cultivation season, KVS's would be called
together in the three general research and training stations for week long
refresher courses.
20.       The contact farmers through whom extension officers would operate
would be given specialized training in addition to the KVS's visits. This
training would consist of practical work and demonstration on Department
farms and would include aspects of land and water control at farm level,
weeding, fertilization and pest control.
21.       Implementation of the proposed program would not require any addi-
tional training institutions or other infrastructure except for staff housing
on research farms. It would be achieved through provision of additional
capital investment for research farms, training centers and the extension
services themselves.
22.       The Department's development plan for the extension services
might be complemented by a special, intensive extension program in the
Anuradhapura district. This program would be linked to the Mahaweli Ganga
Stage II Project recently appraised by IDA. Financial support for this pro-
gram would be provided through other assistance and is excluded from provi-
sions under this project. The principal approach to extension in the inten-
sive area and outside would be identical. It is expected that experiences
gained with the more intensive method would be adapted outside the Anuradha-
pura district and help improve agricultural extension throughout the country.
23.       The proposed Project would support the Department in the imple-
mentation of its development plans and enable it to achieve the above recom-
mendations. Funds would be made available to cover cif costs of imports of
machinery, equipment and spares as detailed in the following paragraphs: 1/
24.       Rehabilitation of the Department's Transport Fleet.  According to
a survey dated May 15, 1975, the Department of Agriculture has the following
fleet of transport:
1/   The original request by the Department included supply of two-wheel
tractors and accessories. This has been deleted in the light of a
proposed domestic production of two-wheel tractors, see Annex 4,
paras 33 and 34.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Four      Two            Lo ries  4-wheel   Notor
whuel  *iice-li  Crawler    &       Drive    cars & Motor
tractor -,rac-  r:tctor  Vains   Trar ot Coaches cycles Total
Over 10 years old       315                        138         2        12       0     520
5-10 years old          280      214       11       74       150        60      41     830
Under 5 years old       193      169      214       94        15        21       2     708
Total              788     383      268      306       177        93      43   2,058
1) Total under
10 years old         473      383     225       168      165        81      43   1,538
2) Total operational  358        158       70      20n       122        64      21     997
3) Approximate number
for rehabilita-
tion /a               85      170      115      -         30         10     16      426
/a   Estimated 75% of difference between 1 and 2.
A large number of the four-wheel tractors and some of the transport is cur-
rently attached to the Department's tractor pools (see Annex 4), but with the
discontinuation of the pools would become avaiLable for work on Department
research, training and seed multiplication farns and some would be allocated
to APC's. It would be in the interest of GOSL and of the Department to re-
pair all un"ts which can be economically rehabilitated before relying upon
importation of new equipment.
25.        The estimated average cif cost for importation of spare and re-
placement parts for units other than two-wheel tractors and motorcycles is
US$600, for motorcycles US$50. Excluding price contingencies, the Project
would therefore provide a total sum of US$150,000 for the purpose of rehabili-
tation of the Dcoartment's fleet.
26.        Research.  The Project would finance importation of field machinery,
transport -,d spare parts for the fcour major research centers at Peradeniya,
Maha Illuppalatna, Angunukolapellessa and Bandarawela. Funds would also be
provided to cover the foreign exchange costs for glasshouses. GOSL would
provide for the local cost of buildings while UNDP would provide for technical
assistance, fellowships, laboratory equipment, periodicals and library books.
Assistance for the 11 smaller research stations would be similar. Excluding
price contingencies Project contribution would be around US$0.9 M (see Table 4).
27.        Training.  Project support: would be for equipment for the School of
:ric-ulture at Kundasale, which offers 2-year courses. The school has a
teaching staff of 17 and an average student intake of 150/annum. Attached
to the school is a 20 ac farm. Support would also be given to the Regional



ANNEX 2
Page 9
and District Training Centers and for agricultural information. Equipment
required consists of farm machinery, workshop equipment, transport as well
as audio-visual aids, office and laboratory equipment and technical publica-
tions. It is envisaged that the Project would provide the heavy capital
equipment; UNDP, under its research, training and extension project, would
provide smaller equipment, technical assistance and fellowships. Buildings,
classroom and dormitory facilities are sufficient and do not require new
investment. Table 5 provides details of proposed investment costs.
28.       Extension.  Project support would be for mobilization of extension
services. A recent sample survey indicated that field extension staff, not
in possession of their own transport but determined to do their work, spend
30 to 40% of their time waiting for, or using public transport. Mobiliza-
tion of extension staff has recently commenced with a gift by the Federal
Republic of Germany under which 300 motorcycles were provided. Under cur-
rent staffing plans for the recruitment of about 200 new Al's the total
requirement for motorcycles would be around 500 leaving a gap of 200 machines
to be provided. Additional transport is required for supervisory staff and
field extension officers. For the efficient functioning of extension services
a minimum of plant protection equipment would also be needed. To complement
Project support (Table 6), UNDP would provide smaller scale field equipment,
books and periodicals as well as audio-visual aid and office equipment.
The plan to provide every district with its own cinema van to support ex-
tension efforts is recommendable, but the Service has obtained support from
the Federal Republ'c of Germany and has at least 5 operating units which
would suffice for the time being.
29.       Motorcycles to be provided under the Project would be sold to
extension officers. For this purpose GOSL is advancing loans of Rs 3500
or 2 years' salary, whichever is the lower; the loan has to be repaid over
a 5-year period. Officers purchasing motorcycles have to take out compre-
hensive insurance and are not entitled to sell the machines without prior
approval of the Department. Mileage allowances are paid at the rate of
Rs 0.28/mile. With the increased cost of motorcycles, approximately
Rs 9000 including FEEC's, taxes and other dues, the advance granted and
mileage paid is insufficient. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that conditions of purchase and/or allowance payment will be improved.
30.       Total Costs.  Excluding price contingencies, the total cost for the
support to the Department of Agriculture's Research, Training and Extension
Services would be US$6.1 M, of which US$2 M or 33% would be provided by IDA,
48% by GOSL and 19% by UNDP. The GOSL contribution would include support to
the UNDP project (Rs 11.7 M). Details are:



ANNEX 2
Page 10
/a       lb
IDA   UNDP-   GOSL-    Total
in US$'000
Rehabilitation of Transport          150     -        -           150
Research, Training and Extension
equipment and machinery          1,890    265      2,760     4,915
Technical Assistance                        640        180        820
Fellowships                           -     250       -           250
Total                        2,040  1,155       2,940     6,135
/a   Tentative and covering project period 1976-78.
/b   Including support to UNDP project.
31.       The Department has the necessary manpower and expertise to operate
the equipment and vehicles to be provided.  Maintenance and repair of them
would be undertaken in the Department's workshops, major overhauls at the
Department's central workshop at Kandy. Incremental operating and mainte-
nance costs for the transport and equipment provided would be met from the
budget of the Department of Agriculture. Assurances were obtained during
-egOtiations that these funds will be allocatecd by GOSL.
32.       Support by the Association to the Department of Agriculture, to be
provided under the project, would only be meaningful if the UNDP input be-
comes available before, or at least parallel to, the Association's support.
During negotiations agreement was therefore reached that disbursement against
machinery and equipment for the Department of Agriculture will be conditional
upon the signature of a relevant UNDP project agreement.



ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA                                                                                TAb._ 12
A03?IEULTRL DRVRLCPM13NT PRCECT
CHARACTERISTICS OF AGR00CLIMAIIC MRICNS
_ _                        t         F Totsl Extent        T   Elevation  'anii - -                                      r ---              -             _               _ _ __
nf Region
l  ___  _   ___ WMean.        No. of       M.-x Annoal
Regi-n                  Code    Squnt        Mo Ans-    Feet Above       Annal       Months of    Tnmpnent-oe              Main Soil Typn                               Dintrivts
Nilen      (Mil)      Sna Level         Rain-      Effettiv           OF
_______   __ -___                                - __-_                  _ _         foil    _Rainfall   __ _____   ______                      __          _     _    _     _                _______________
A.  RRY ECNl
1.  Northern Region              j         Dl  7,558     4.832              500       45-65           4              80)         Rsddinh Btono Earths          TrincoRalen, Vovoolyn, Mannt,r  A'poa, F'na,
i      nod  Low Mania  inys  -Pottalax, Koetnognin, Malnx RK dolla  N'gola
L.    ...oGy                      sParn,   niosa
2.  Sontho Region                     Dl      2,184      1.393              500       45-65           4              80)
3.  Canter.  Rngio-              |   D3       2,409      1.542              300       55-75           5              81          Non-valii  Brown  Soils       Pn'toon   Anpoa-i, Trinoarlne, BRtticalos,
l I                                                                        and Loo HMia GEReyn.          Moonoagala.
4.  N. W. Coastal Region              D2      1.364    10.873               150       45-50           3              82          Lavonoin.                      Jafon, Vovooiyx, Mtnoar, Puttalax.
5.  Alkoiolan   & SnlLnic Soils      D4         62R      0.397               50        45             3             82           buns  & Alkaline                ana., Mannar, Trincomnlee.
6.  Cvoetol RBglo-                    D5        470      0.3i                50       R0-60           4              81          Sandy Regosols.               Janffn, Mannat. P-tOloi. Battivalon, ApparRoi.
7.   erv dry Coa..tl Rigiot          D6         56S      0.362              200        45             2            82           R.ddish B-on E-arthn          Raxiantota.
sod Solodized Solo-
8   INTERMERIATS  -ONE                                                                                     _                                                                                                  _       -
1.  Semi-dAr  vo-lovd9                11        143      0.091            3,000       4S-65           4              70          Rod.tnli    Podnolio         BRadvlla.
Soils.
2.  SnoL-dry nidl ndn                  2        853      0.546    1,C00-3,000          85             5              73          Reddish Broan Latosolt        Bad1lla, N'Eliya. Kavdy, Matale, Raitapur-,
I2                                                                 ~~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~Soils.h  Mon.r-gnln.
3.  Semi-Sty aidl-vdn                 14      2,S39      1.625          1,0C0          80             54             78          Rnddinh Srown Earvhs           BRd1ila, Ma-aLe, M.ner-galo,B-siialva,
sod I7r-ture Bro-n            K-.on.gola.
Loan
4.  Seni-vet Lo-lands                 13        797      0.510          1,000          85             8              78          Red-Ysliow Podnnliv           Ear-negala
_   __  _   _   _   _  _ _ _    _                      ~~~~~~~~Sob-soill.
C.  WET ZONE
(W1         86     0.119         9S000           85-100         10             60           Rd-SYlo (    oumi             N'Eliya, Ratapr    Mata.
1.  Uolnods .2                                 59S      0.381    3,000-5,000        100-135         10             65           Rcd-Yel nn Pod-olic           -ovdy, M-aaln, BRdla, N'Elity.
II                                                                                          Sol,e
(W3        2S2      0.161     3,000-5,000         125            7             64           Red-Yellow PFdeolt            Ka-dy, BaAdllo,N-aara Eliyn.
Roilo.
(W4        404      0.303    1,000-3,000        125-10        11              75           Red-Yellow Podnolia           Knody, N'Eliya, R,oWap-ra, Kogale.
2.  Mi.lxAn.                        (W,        391      0.2s0    1,000-3,000        100-129         10             75          Red-Yllo  Pod.olia         KAsdy,  a,talo, Ravvavara, K.galt.
Sol's, Rnddin~h Irn,          M.ata-.
Latosolli  S.il.
(W6        282      0.190    1.000-3R000         80-90           9             75           I-ns-rn B-rown Loan.          K-sdy  Matalx, Bad.lla.
(W7      1,234      0.790       500-1.000       130-170         Ii             BR           Red-Yellow Podnolia           Ratoapara  Kegalle. CalutaraGalSe.
(W,        919      0.586       500-1,0CC        85-100         10            80           Red-Yellow Podrolic           Kady. Spt, KRgrlln, Sail.  at-v,
I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soils.     Henbatota.
3.  Lonlo-de                      I
I 'Wg      1,171      0.749                So       8S-125        18             80          RdA-YelLqw Podoolia            Calambo, KIaltar,   all         - tata.
I      I                                                               RoB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sin.. (Latrln
(W1o       328      0.210              500      100-125         i0%             80          Bag sad  BRg Soils.          Colonbo, Kaltiara,  GalIn.
Soarve:  M ioletry  of  -l nning_                                      L.                                         L                 I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



ANNEX 2
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of Agriculture
Program Expenditure 1971/72 to 1975
(Rs '000)
Actual    Actual   Estimate Estimate
1971/721/  1973       1974     1975
(a) Recurrent EKpenditure
Development of Crop Husbandry             22,274   20,125   24,693   27,972
of which:
Crop Research                          5,218    4,889    5,712    7,029
Crop Production and Extension         12,398   13,130   13,832   18,385
Seed and Planting Material.
Production, Processing and
Certification         2/               946    1,369    1,194    1,330
Agricultural Info 2atio/                 441      (325)     394      (419)
Agricultural Education-                2,521   (2,450)   2,687   (3,534)
Plant Protection                          59        36      136       142
Botanic Gardens                          691       701      738    1,086
Development of Animal Husbandry            4,612    5,140    7,493    8,735
General Administration and
Staff Services                           6,144    9,421    6,971   12,688
Total                                     33,030   34,686   39,157   49,395
1975 Estimates as % of previous
years :
Total                                      150       142      126       100
Crop Husbandry (excluding
Information and Education)               145       139      129       100
(b) Capital Expenditure
Development of Crop Husbandry                   -    6,312    6,306   17,080
of which:
Construction of Permanent Buildings        -    3,802    4,714    4,046
Purchase of Fquipment and Vehicles         -    1,526       768   11,209
Land Development and Other Works            -      861      671    1,648
Grants and Contributions                   -       123      153       177
Development of Animal Husbandry                 -    4,782    6,195    7,258
general Administration and Staff Services       -    2,600      460    3,751
Total                                           -   13,694   12,961   28,089
1975 Estimates as , of previous years :
Total                                         -      205      217       100
Crop Husbandry                               -       270      271       100
1/ Fiscal Year 1971/72 (Oct 1, 1971 - Dec 31, 1972). Amounts have been prorated
to 12 months for comparison.
2/  In 1973 and 1975 shown under "tGeneral Administration and Staff services."
Source: Government of Sri Lanka, Estimates of the Revenue and Expenditure 1974
and 1975.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of Agriculture: Proposed UNDP Support
(in man months and US,'000)
1976            1977             1978             1979             1980             Total
rn/rn    $      m/rn      $      m/rn      $      m/rn      $      mn/m      $      rn/rn     $
Technical Assistance
Personnel                 44     132       102    306      67      201      18       54       12      36     243      729
Training                          33.6             99.7            114.1             52                4.8            304.2
Equipment                         70              100               80               70               30              350
Miscellaneous                      5                6.3              7.5              7                9.2             35
Total                           240.6             512.0            402.6            183.0             80.0          1,418.2
Source:    Draft UNDP Project Document
u PO



ANNEX 2
SRI IANKA                                                                      Table
AGRICULTURAL D!5VEFlPMENr l'ROJECT
DFPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE? INVFSTNEEr lROPOSAL MAJOR RESEiRCH STATIOX3
S T A T -:0 N                                         Unit cost-/  Total costs
Maha-Illup langur.ko   Bandara   11 Satellite  Total          cif            US$
Peradeniya   pallama  lapellesa    wela           Stations      No.        US$           '000
IDA Support
Four wheel tractors                              24                      3           2           12         23        5,000           115
Threshers                                        2           4           2           2            8         18        1,700            31
Threshers (portable)                            12          12          12           8           40         84          375            32
Seed dryers                                      2           2           2           1           13         20          200             4
Seed cleaners                                                2           2           1           13         20          500            10
Water pumps and irrigation                                                                          2
equipment                                       2           4           2           -                      18        3,700           70-2
Power sprayers                                   4           5           4           2           17         32          500            16
Knapsack sprayers                               12          16          10           8           35         81          150            12
Total farm machinery                            -           -           -           -            -          -          -            290
Lorries @ 3t                                     1           1           1           1            2          6        5,500            33
Pick-up trucks                                   2           2           1           1             9        15        7,000           105
h-wheel drive transport                         IT           6           3           2           10         25        6,500           162
Motorcycles - 175 cc                            20          16          12           6           16         70          750            52
Tctal vehicles                                  -           -           -           -            -          -          -            352
Spare parts for new equipment 10%                -           -           -           -             -          -          -             64
Glass houses                                     6           4           3           4            6         23        7,650           77
Total IlA                                       -           -           -           -            -          -          -            882
G(SL Support
$uarters senior staff                            6                                   1            i4        6n            0           276
rters medium  staff                                                                           1 5  5                              260
Quarters lower staff (twin houses)               8           8           5           4           18         43        6,250           269
Labor quarters (twin houses)                     4           6           6           4           15         35        4,600           161
Glass houses                                     6           4           3           4            6         23        7,650           176
Total GOSL                                                                                                                        1,142
Total Research                                                                                                                    2,250
!/In case of GOSL support US Dollar equivalent of local costs.
-Includes 2 units costed at US$5,600.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMFNT kPROJECT
DEPARTNENT OF AGRICULTURE, INVESTMENT PROPOSAL AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
Numbers
Regional  District                   Agri-                           Unit cost  Total cost
Training  Training   School of    cuiltural    Department    Total       cif         US$
Centres   Centres  Agriculture  Information  Headquarters   No.        US$         '000
IDA Support
our wheel tractors and implements         _          6          1                                                          5
ower sprayers, low volumPe                3         11          1             _1'  88
Power sprayers, high volume                1          -          -             -            -           1      1,500         2
Knapsack sprayers                          6         12          2             _            _          20        150         3
Pumps 2" 150 gpm                           -         10          3             _            -          13      1,000        13
Electric oumps 3" 250 gpm                  3          -          -                          -           3      6,000        18
Sprinkle.- irrigation set                  1          -                                     -           1     10,000        10
Mechanic basic tool sets                   3         14          _             _            -          17        500         9
Carpentry basic tool sets                  3         14          _             _            -          17        300         5
Total farm machinery                      -          -          -             -            -           -        -         118
Lorries @ 3t                               -          -          1             1            -           2      5,500        11
4-wheel drive transport                    3          -          1             2            2           8      6,500        52
Minibus                                               -          -             -            1           1      5,600         6
Motorcycles - 175 cc                       6         15          -             -            -          21        750        16
Total transport                           -          -          -             -            -           -        -          85
Spare parts for new equipment-10%                                -             -            - _  _                          20
Total IDA                                 -          -          -             -            -           -        -         223
CD 



SRI LANKA
AGRICUTURAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
JEPA2,TME.TT OFl AGR'ICULTREF, rT,VSYTMNT TP'?OPOSAL AGRICULTURAL EXTFNSIOIT SF,7VIJS
Numbers                       Unit Cost      Total
Head   District       APC     Special                 cif        Cost
IDA Support                 Office    Level       Level   Projects   Total        (Us$)      ('000 us$)
Power sprayer                -        350         _        150       500          500         250
Lorries p  3t                5         20         _          -        25        5,500         138
Four-wheel drive             -         25                    -        25        6,500         162
pick-up trucks               2          -          -         -          2       7,000          14
Mot,rcycles - 175 cc         -          -       200          -       200          750         150
Spare-parts for new
equipment - 10%                                 -          -         -            -          71
Total IDA                  -          -         -          -         -            -         785



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PFRJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENI OF AGRICULTURE
71-973)-
Director of Agriculture
Research                                                           Extension
Division                                                          Division
Additional Deputy            Additional Deputy       Senior Deputy
Special Projects               Horticultural             Paddy
Lift Irrigation Pro jects        Production             Program
Youth Settlemert Schemes
Mahaweli Program
A.D.        A.D.        A.D.                       A.D.               A.D.                                       A.D.
TrainingSed                  Pat      I2         ~       ~       1
Field       Wet a-d    S.E. Dry    North           Mahawel i   EKtension   Schols   In-Service        See    Plant    InAor-   Subject         weld
Trials  Intermediate    Zone       Dry Zone        Program                   of        Training     Certifi-  Protec-  mation   Matter            Extension
Division      Zone        (Uda      (Maha-Illup-                           Agriculture                cation    tion      Service  Specialists    Organization
(Peradeniya)   Walawe)    pallama)                                                         Program   Service



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DE-VELOPMENT P9J7C?
Proposed Organization of the Department of Agriculture
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
I
EXECUTIVE AND MANAGEMENT CONMITTEE
STANDING COMMITTEES           _     ____ _                                         ADMINISTRATION
FINANCE
Research, Farming Systems, Farm                                                      |    PROGRAM BUDGETING, PROGRESS
Engineering, Foundation Stock,                                                             CONTROL AND EVALUATION
Education and Training
Landland Water                                                     l
Use             Agricultural Economics                      Agricultural      Farm Engineer      Engineering
& Farm Management                         Education,       Research and         Services
Training &       Development
Information
Animal Husbandry                                        Crop Husbandry
Animal Production and Health
Livestock      Animal        Animal     Animal              Crop        Agricultural      Seed &              Crop
Research     Production      Health     Breeding          Research       Extension        Planting         Protection
Material
Production



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEED MULTIPLICATION, PREPARATION AND PROCESSING
Introduction
1.        Responsibility for certified seed production, processing and dis-
tribution rests with the Department of Agriculture (see Annex 2). Within
the overall program of reorganization of the Department, this responsibility
is to be given to a new Division of Seed and Planting Material (DSP). Seed
multiplication is carried out on 42 Government farms distributed all over
the country as well as by licensed private farmers. Total acreage, land
use and seed production from these farms is given in Table 1.
Table 1: GOSL SEED FARMS, AREA AND PRODUCTION
1974
Crop           Number of Farms   Acreage   Total Seed Production
tons
Paddy                            26            3,500           5,250
Pulses and Other Cereals         35            3,300           1,400
Vegetables                       28            1,000             150
Potatoes                          6              600           3,000
Horticultural Crops              21              700              19M grafts
and seedlings
Undeveloped land                 26            2,553             -
Source:   Department of Agriculture.
2.        The program of DSP consists of:
(a) variety testing;
(b) seed multiplication;
(c) seed processing;
(d) seed certification;
(e) seed storage;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(f) seed marketing;
(g) training and extension.
The following paragraphs summarize the different activities.
3.        Variety testing, restricted to rice, is undertaken on eight GOSL
research stations through a program of Co-ordinated Rice Varietal Trials
(CRVTs). Under this program varieties are tested for yield, maturing time,
milling out performance, grain quality, palatability, pest and disease re-
sistance. Varieties selected under CRVT are then tested by the Department's
Research Division in field trials on farmer's fields in different agro-cli-
matic zones and under different fertilizer applications. Simultaneously the
best varieties selected out of CRNrT's are further tested under Extension
Field Trials (EFT) whereby "minikits' are issued to farmers i.e. packages
of seed and necessary fertilizer and agro-chemicals. Results of EFT's are
analysed and the most acceptable rice varieties are used to prepare 'Produc-
tion Kits' to be issued to larger number of farmers through extension serv-
ices. The system has been reasonably successful as far as acceptability is
concerned, although restricted in quantity. Minikits and Production Kits
are also prepared for pulses and grains other than rice. Table 2 shows the
extent of current activities.
Table 2: GOSL PROGRAM FOR VARIETY TESTING AND SEED PROPAGATION
Annual Program 1974-76
Number
Extension                     Productiqn Kits
Crop        Foundation Trials   Field Trials  M.linikits issued        issued
Paddy                  400               1,650           5,000        5,000 to 50,000
Maize                   -                  -            500-600       5,000 to 6,000
Sorghum                 -                  -               -               8,000
Soya beans              -                  -             2,500             6,500
Cowpea                  -                  -               -              15,000
Green Gram              -                  -                               7,500
Black Gram              -                  -                               5,000
Source:  Department of Agriculture.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
4.        The seed multiplication system is based upon four different
classes of seed:
(a) Breeder seed: Seed maintained and multiplied by plant
breeders at research stations.
(b) Foundation seed: Multiplied at research stations or GOSL
farms under the supervision of the plant breeder.
(c) Registered seed: Progeny of foundation seed grown on GOSL
seed multiplication farms. The seed has to be approved and
certified by the Seed Testing Laboratory at Peradeniya.
(d) Certified seed: Grown from registered seed by private
licensed seed farmers under supervision of extension services.
Seed is harvested and prepared by farmers in traditional way
and purchased by the Department of Agriculture for later
distribution. Total sales average 13.5 M lbs.
5.        The only up to date foodgrain seed processing unit is on one of the
GOSL seed farms, Hingurakgoda; it was provided by the Australian Methodist
Church under the Freedom from Hunger Campaign (FFHC), its capacity is 5000
lb/shift. A vegetable seed processing plant has been established at Sita
Eliya with assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany.
6.        Sri Lanka has a seed certification program but its implementation
is hampered by lack of equipment at all levels. The Central Seed Testing
Laboratory at Peradeniya, the only one of its type on the island, is the
official seed testing station for Sri Lanka. Minimum standards for paddy
certification are shown in Table 3. Most of the work, about 80%, is on
paddy. The laboratory, a member of ISTA, enjoys technical assistance pro-
vided by FAO and equipment has been obtained from the Australian Methodist
Church.
7.        Seed storage is inadequate.  All GOSL seed farms have some storage
facilities but these stores are poorly equipped and need rehabilitation.
Apart from one small vegetable seed warehouse, built with German assistance,
none of the stores has humidity or temperature control facilities. Certi-
fied seed, purchased by the Department, is stored in District warehouses and
kept under the supervision of extension staff. These stores are equally
unsuited for seed storage and spoilage occurs. The inadequacy of seed
storage is reflected in the low germination percentage tolerated in seed
standards (Table 3).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Table 3: STAN1)ARDS FOR PADDY SEED
in percent
Foundation and
Test                Registered Seed    Certified Seed
Varietal Purity (minimum)            99                  98
Germination (minimum)                85                  85
Inert Matter                          1                   2
Weed Seed                           .05                   1
Mixture Content                      13                  13
Source:  Department of Agriculture.
8.        Marketing of certified seed has, until now, been the task of
Co-operative Multipurpose Societies. With the emergence of APC's, distri-
bution of certified seed will be handled through the Agricultural Service
Centers. The Department has the monopoly for importing seed and planting
material. Private traders, formerly importers, have to rely upon the
Department for supplies and otherwise are restricted to handle local un-
certified seed.
9.        During in-service training courses for extension staff, officers
are instructed on the various concepts of use of improved seeds, plant
protection and modern cultivation practices. The value of these courses
is limited by availability of improved seed. Special overseas training in
seed technology has been provided through UNDP and the Federal Republic of
Germany.
Limitations of the Present Seed Production Program
10.       The 42 GOSL seed farms have a total area of somewhat over 12,200
ac; of this only 9660 ac are developed and of these only some 7500 ac are
suitable for seed multiplication. Actual seed production has been: 5,250 t
of paddy, 750 t of other cereals and 650 t of pulses and oilseeds. Not only
is this production completely insuLfficient to meet the country's require-
ments, it is also low in production per acre and poor in quality,genetical
and physical purity. Furthermore germination is low and on average nearly
half of total production has to be rejected for certification.
11.  I   The reasons for the poor' performance are that until 1973 GOSL
farms were operated as general farms, seed production was incidental. In
1974 the Department decided to convert them into proper seed farms but does
not have the necessary equipment. The inability of GOSL to make the neces-
sary foreign exchange available has forced the Department to apply ineffi-
cient methods of production and processing. The key constraints can be
summarized as:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(a) inadequate land development, including land levelling
and drainage;
(b) insufficient and frequently delayed land preparation;
(c) irregular irrigation and plant protection;
(d) wasteful harvesting and threshing methods;
(e) lack of seed drying and processing equipment;
(f) poor storage and lack of transport.
12.       According to the 1976 draft estimates, GOSL financial allocations
to the Seed Development Program would increase by about 28% over those of
1975. A total sum of Rs 40 M has been requested of which more than Rs 1 M
for land development and Rs 6.7 M for buildings. The estimates do not
include any foreign exchange allocation for purchase of machinery and
equipment.
Development Plans
13.       The DSP's development program foresees certified seed production
to reach minimum requirements by 1977. The quantitative program is based
on projected total acreage to be sown to paddy, food grains and pulses and
a seed replacement rate of 5 years for paddy, 4 years for millet, maize,
grams, groundnut and gengelly, and 3 years for sorghum, dhal and soya
beans. Table 4 gives details of the demand projections. Compared to
present production it would call for a more than three fold increase in
seed production for paddy and a 25% increase for other cereals and pulses.
This latter figure is misleading as seed presently produced is of poor
quality and represents only few traditional varieties; it is not really
comparable to the seed expected to be forthcoming as a result of the pro-
gram. The projected 1980 demand is 20% above 1977 production targets.
14.       To achieve these targets DSP's primary aim is the full development
of the 42 Government seed farms. The farms would be used primarily for
production of registered seed with certified seed multiplication on any
excess land, but otherwise on private farms. It is expected that the seed
farms could provide by 1977, 25% of certified paddy seed, 40% of pulses and
90% of food grains other than paddy. By 1980 these percentages would have
dropped to 20%, 35% and 85% respectively. The important role of private
farm production is clearly discernable and will call for a substantial
increase in DSP's extension and supervision staff.
15.       The DSP has developed individual plans for the 42 Government farms,
including land development, land and water use, management and other input
requirements. Major improvements in irrigation and drainage are necessary
on some farms and development work is actually being undertaken. It is
planned to complete all improvements by end 1975. However DSP does not



ANNEX 3
Page 6
have the necessary farm equipment to operate the rehabilitated farms, nor
has it the foreign exchange to import them.
Project Support
16.       The project would provide assistance to the Division of Seed and
Planting Material through financing the cif value of farm machinery, trans-
port, plant protection equipment, irrigation equipment, seed processing
equipment and some technical equipment. Details of equipment and machinery
to be provided is given in Table 5. 1/ Through this support the Division
would be in a position to fully operate the Seed Farms. Technical expertise
in planning and implementing farm development: is available to the Division.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that GOSL will make continuing
annual allocation for the operation and maintenance of equipment provided.
Actual repair and maintenance work would be carried out on the Department
of Agriculture central workshop in Peradeniya or in other GOSL repair
stations. Assurances were also obtained that the necessary seed storage will
be constructed by GOSL.
Benefits
17.       The benefit from the seed production component would be higher
yields. It can be expected that, in the case of paddy, the majority of
farmers purchasing seed would be those already using HYV's, either of
the new or the old types; it is thus assumed that the initial step from
low yielding traditional varieties has been made (the share of traditional
varieties in total sown acreage is already only around 15%). The greater
availability of certified seed would reduce the period of seed renewal to
an average of five years thereby further contributing to yield increases as.
extended periods between seed replacement lead to a degeneration of seed
quality. In the case of foodgrains other than paddy, and in the case of
pulses, seed production by DSP would be particularly important through
introducing new, better suited varieties and a much better quality of seed.
18.       Assuming no changes in cultural practices or other farm inputs,
the use of improved seed would result in annual yield increases, averaged
over the number of years projected for seed renewal, of at least 5% for
paddy and at least 15% for other cereals and pulses. At a rate of 67.5 lb
of paddy seed/ac an average yield of 45 bu/acre (2,025 lb), and a replace-
ment of seed every fifth year this would imply an incremental production
of paddy from the additional seed to be produiced by 1977 of 110,000 tons
equivalent to around 75,000 tons of rice, or nearly one quarter of present
imports. The corresponding amount of other foodgrains and pulses would be
approximately: maize 6,000 tons, sorghum 3,500 tons, grams 5,400 tons.
The gross farm gate price of these quantities, using current guaranteed
prices, would be around Rs 215M/annum. The use of GOSL seed farms for
training of extension officers in proper land use and water management
would be an additional bonus.
1/   In addition to the machinery shown in Table 5, DSP would receive from the
Department's tractor pools 251 of the tractors rehabilitated under the
project (see Annex 2).



ANNEX 3
Table 4
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Incremental Seed Requirements, 1977 and 1980
Planned                   Total seed    Certified seed    Certified seed
sown acreage  Seed rate  requirements  requirement 1977  requirement 19807
Crop                    '000 acres    lb/acre    '000 lb          '000 lb 3'000 lb_!
Paddy                     2,407           67.5      195,000         39,000              45 h,000
Maize                       132           20          3,150            790  /              910
Sorghum                      65           15          1,150            380 /               440
Kurakkam                     97            6            700            140 4!              160
Millet                       25            6            180             U5/                 50
Green Gram                   65           30          2,340            580 4/              670
Black Gram                   10           30            360             90g/               100
Cowpea                       40           30          1,440            360 5/              blo
Dhal                          7           10             85             306/                35
Soya Beans                   18           50          1,080            360 6/              hlo
5roundnut                    LO          110          5,280          1,320 i/            1,520
Gingelly                     53            8            510            130 5/              150
j/     Revised Five Year Plan.
2/     1 x 2 plus 20% safety margin.
3/     Estimated effective demand not exceeding 40% of amounts shown.
4/     Replacement rate every 5th year.
5/     Replacement rate every 4th year.
6/     Replacement rate every 3rd year.
7/     Assumed increase 15% over 1977.
Source: Department of Agriculture and Mission's estimates.



ANNEX 3
Table 5
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of SeedB and Planting Materials
Investment Proposal
Type of                       Unit            Unit Cost          Total Cost        Percent of
Equipment                     Number          US$ c.i.f.         US$1,000          Total Cost
Tractors 35-40 HP               25             5,000                125
Discplows 2 furrows             20               700                 14
Discplows 3 furrows             15               9C0                 14
Tyne Tiller                     30               550                 17
Rotovators                      20               600                  12
Ridgers                         20               250                  5
5t Transport                    10             7,500                 75
3t Transport                    10             5,50o                 55
4 Wheel Drive Car               10             6,500                 65
2 Wheel Drive Car                8             3,500                 28
1,000 gal. bowzer                5             6,500                 33
Mctorcycles 175 cc              20               750                  15
Knapsack Sprayers              100               150                 15
Tractor Mounted Sprayers        20               500                 10
Sprinkler Equipment
and Pumps                     20             6,000                120
Water Pump Lift Irrigation
90ft 3"                       20             6,ooo                120
Seed Processing Equipment2!    12             28,500                342
Small Technical Equipment2/      -                                   77
Spare parts for new equipment                                       115               89
Total I.D.A.                                                    1,257
G.O.S.L.
Seed Storage Facilities3/                                           153
Total G.O.S.L.                                                    153               11
Total Excluding Price Contingencies                             1 410              100
1/  Consisting of drying units, precleaner, seed cleaner, seed treating equipment and
- minor equipment.
2/ Consisting of moisture testers, sealers, off:ice equipment, workshop equipment.
3/ Includes construction cost for seed storage facilities during first two years
(Rs IM). Total estiimated construction cost is Rs 3M.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM POWER
I. Introduction
1.        Of all countries in South and South East Asia, Sri Lanka has the
greatest density of mechanically cultivated land. Tractor power is particu-
larly important in the Dry Zone (see Table 1 and Map 2). This could be
explained by:
(a) the reddish-brown soils of the Dry Zone which contain
very little silt, consist of sand and clay and are
subject to extreme baking which makes dry cultivation
by man and animal practically impossible; and
(b) the period for timely cultivation in the Maha season,
restricted to a few weeks and with scarce water
availability, during which delays in planting result
in a sharp drop in yields. Also the "turn around" time
between Maha and Yala is very short and reliance upon
animal and human power for cultivation would reduce
Yala cropping.
2.        Furthermore, although the Dry Zone must have been a center of food
production during the time of the Old Kingdoms, modern settlement is of rela-
tively recent origin and hence cultivation is not as tradition bound as in
many other parts of Asia. Finally, the national buffalo herd has decreased
steadily from a peak in 1965 of more than 1M to around 0.7M today. Of this
population not more than about 160,000 head, or 80,000 pair, actually work
on farms. The others are either too old, too young or work on roads. Gov-
ernment programs to re-establish the buffalo herd have largely failed in
achieving their objectives, not least due to shortages of fodder and the
reluctance of farmers to "revert back".



ANINEX 4
Page 2
Table 1: Paddy Culbivation Methods by District 1971/72
Percent of Total
MAHA                          YALA
Zone            District      Tractor  Buffalo  Mannoty    Tractor  Buffalo  Mananoty
Dry              Trincomalee    100        0         0          100       0         0
Vavuniya        100       0         0         100        0         0
Batticaloa       97       3         0           80      20         0
Mannar           97       -         3           97       3         0
Jaffna           95       0         5           80      20         0
Hambantota       84       5        1.1          83      13         4
Pollannuruwa    75       16         9          79       21         0
Amparai          71      29         0          62       38         0
Anuradhapura    69       31         0           64      36         0
3mtermediate    Kurunagale       62       37         1          51       48         1
Monaragala       44      29        27           60      13        27
Matale           44      54         2           30      65         5
Wet Lowland      Matara           33      21        46           32      21        47
Colombo          21      53        26           33      57        10
Ratnapura        14      17        69           14      17        69
Galle             8      25       67            9       25       66
Kalutara          4      41        55            6      39        55
Wet Highland    Kegalla            4      80        16            3      81        16
N'Eliya           0      55        45            0      25        75
Source: "Need for Agricultural Mechanization in Sri Lanka" Department of Agriculture.
Unpublished Report - 1972.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
3.        Paddy production is the dominant factor determining farm power
requirements in Sri Lanka. Not only is paddy the most important crop, but
most other subsidiary food crops - chillies, onions, gram, groundnut,
sorghum, etc. - and cash crops such as tobacco and cotton are grown on
paddy land in the Yala season in those areas where insufficient water
prevents a second paddy crop. The Dry Zone is the most important paddy
producing area; total acreage and relative importance of this Zone as rice
producer increased between 1967 and 1975.
II. Cultural Practices and Tractor Use in the Dry Zone
4.        The total paddy acreage in the Dry Zone is around 950,000 ac.
Of these about 475,000 ac are in major irrigation schemes based primarily
on large tanks or river diversification, an equal acreage is linked to
minor irrigation schemes. Availability of irrigation water is based
primarily on the Maha rain, and in most areas is insufficient for year-
round irrigation.
5.        In the Maha season (October through February) practically all
developed land is planted or sown to paddy. Before the first N.E. monsoon
showers, the soil is dry and hard. Where it has lain fallow over the Yala
season -- approximately 45% of the area - it may also be covered with heavy
grass and weed growth. The soil is therefore difficult to till even with
4-wheel tractors, and tillage with buffaloes, by hand or with 2-wheel tractors
is practically impossible. At this time irrigation tanks are dry or at very
low levels and in most cases cannot supply water to soften the soil. After
the first monsoon showers, i.e., toward the end of September, soils become
more friable and cultivation can start. Table 2 summarizes these opera-
tions. After the "first operation" fields are left for 10-14 days and
bunds are built or repaired to impound water. The organic material decom-
poses and, depending on the extent of rainfall, fields become flooded. Sub-
sequently, in areas of particularly low rainfall - all areas north of Anurad-
hapura - seed is broadcast or "dry seeded", in the other areas mud seeding is
more common. Transplanting in the Dry Zone is of little importance.



ANT EX4
Page b
TABLE 2: CULTIVATIOI PRACTICES WITH DIFFERENT FARM POWR
2nd. Tillage              2nd. Tillage
Thst. ThilaZT _:           T- LCe,aLin   _       _- _td Seeedirg
Time                      Jime                      Time
-Dequire d/               '-equired/                 'n-equired/
Power Source    Operation      Acre        Operation      Acre        Qperation     Acre
F:ours                    Hours                      'ours
35-40 HP (PTO)   twice-                    twice-                     -twice-
l;-wheel tractor  over                     over                        over
with tiller       6" deep        2         3" deep       l-                       2-l/L
5-8 HP 2-wheel                             once-
tractor with      twice-                   over
tototiller or    over                      2-3"                        twice-
rotovator        L" deep        8          deep            4           over          10
5-8 HP 2-wheel   once-
with revolving   over
plow              L' deep      10            -             -             -            -
Buffaloes nair                                                         3 to
with local plow  twice-                                                five
and levelling    over                      twice-                      times
plank             a" deep      15          over,          10           over          15
Source: Department of Agriculture and M4iEsion Estimates



ANNEX 4
Page 5
6.        The extent of the total crop sown by different methods is estimated
as foliows:
Maha    Yala
Wet "mud" Broadcast                 60%      70%
Dry Broadcast                        30%     30%
Transplanted                         10%     negligible
Only a negligible area is row seeded and even in transplanting less than
25% is planted in rows suitable for mechanical weeding.
7.        First and second tillage should be completed within 4 weeks to
assure that the crop is sufficiently advanced to withstand flood damage
resulting from the heavy monsoon rains in late October and November.
Adherence to this time schedule depends upon farm power availability
which is presently lacking.
8.        In the Dry Zone approximately 40% of the paddy land is again
planted to paddy during Yala. Of the remaining land approximately 15% is
planted to quick maturing subsidiary crops such as chillies, onions, gram,
cow peas, sorghum. The remaining 45% is left in unworked fallow.
9.        Cultural practices in the Yala season are in principle the same
as for the Maha. The main differences being (a) only quick maturing varie-
ties (3 months) are sown (b) no transplanting is done - approximately 70%
wet "mud" seeded and 30% dry sown, and (c) the timing of the first and
second tillage operations is not as critical since water supply is mainly
from controlled sources. However, in order to conserve tank water for the
growing crop, pretillage irrigation is rarely practiced and the "first
operation" is usually done under even harder soil conditions than during
Maha and can only be undertaken by 4-wheel tractors. Nevertheless, tractor
requirements per unit area of planted crop are lower than in Maha since the
tillage/planting period is not so critical and tractors can be worked with
fewer interruptions as there are no heavy rains.
10.       Four-wheel tractor cultivation is generally undertaken under
custom hire arrangements. With an average of 2.5 ac per farm in the Dry
Zone, individual farms are too small to justify ownership and management
of even a 2-wheel tractor without undertaking custom work. Varied climatic,
soil, and cultural practices and good communications allowed for the devel-
opment of a system of extensive private hire purchase operations whereby
individual tractors are applied for consecutive cultivation in different
parts of the island for periods of up to 4 months during the Maha season
followed by a similar time for threshing. Rates charged for cultivation



ANNEX 4
Page 6
range from Rs 125 to Rs 150 per acre, or about Rs 62 to Rs 75 per hour.
These rates are reasonable. 1/
11.       Government tractor hire services commenced in 1950/51 and expanded
substantially with the help of bilateral assistance and by absorbing the
tractor fleet from a defunct cooperative-union tractor hire scheme. At the
height of development (1962/63) Government operated more than 300 tractors
from 20 different stations. The fleet was supported by 3 main and 8 field
repair stations.  Financially the s.cheme was not successful and annual oper-
ating losses rose to Rs 1.5M in the early 1970's.  The Department of Agricul-
ture, responsible for the scheme, is discontiinuing the service. Of the re-
maining tractors, about 250, fifty are in goodl or fair working condition and
another approximately 50 are economically repairable and should be repaired
and allocated to other schemes (see Annex 2, paras 24 and 25 for proposed
action).
III.  The Balance of Tractor Power
12.       Table 3 gives imports of tractors in Sri Lanka over the past 25
years. Of the 4-wheel tractors only those imported after 1966 (about 8,300
units) are of modern design. The rapid decline of imports after 1969 is a
direct result of foreign exchange shortages. Based on the schedule of im-
ports given in Table 3 and assuming a minimum write-off rate of 5% per annum,
the present population of tractors of modern design can be estimated at
around 5,750 units. Not more than two-thirds of these tractors work in
agriculture, the remainder are on estates or used for road haulage. Of the
agricultural tractor fleet the vast: majority (80%) operates in the Dry Zone,
this would imply a total agricultural tractor fleet in the Dry Zone of some
3,250 units. At least 50% of this fleet is in need of major overhaul, leaving
an active 4-wheel tractor fleet of around 1,650 units; most of these require
spare and replacement parts.
13.       In estimating tractor power requirements the following assumptions
have been made:
(a)  The area of developed paddy and other crop land in the Dry
Zone totals around 950,000 ac; this land is cropped at
approximately 140% intensity. It is estimated that over
the next 10 years 12,500 ac of new land will be developed
annually and in addition double cropping will be introduced
on an equal area of already irrigated land. By 1985 the
1/   As a rule of thumb, the hourly rate charged for tractor hire for cul-
tivation should be one thousands of the replacement value of the tractor.
Current tractor prices to the farmer for a four-wheel 35-40 HP (PTO)
tractor are Rs 65,000.



ANNtX 4
Page 7
Table 3: Tractor Imports
4-Wheel Tractors and Types                        2-Wheel Tractors-/
Prior to:   M.F.   FORD   IHC   D. BROWN   BMC   OTHER   TOTAL
1960        2,200                                     800   3,O00Q/' approx.  414
1960          668  148      47       -        -        -      863             297
1961          953  218      23      10        9       5i/ 1,263             325
1962          719  158      16       74       20       -      987             385
1963          773   95      28       15        7       -      918             264
1964          208  110       8       -         9       -      335             467
1965          148  118      22       -         5       -      293             193
1966          857  162      42        4        7       -    1,072             193
1967        1,300  380    220         4        5       -    1,909             156
1968          732  309      80       50       21       -    1,192           1,720
1969        1,147  370    173       203       63       -    1,956           1,108
1970           445  116     70      141        1       -      773             832
1971          605   -       45       -         -       -      650           1,650
1972          402   -        -       -         -       30L/  1432           1,6025/
1973            -    -       1       53        -       -       54             810
1974           -    38       -        -        -       5Oi/    88              10
19756/        100   -                                 100_Z/   200          1,400
TOTAL      11,257  2,222  775      554       147   1,030  15,985           11,826
1   Up to 1968 mostly single shaft Landmaster type.  1968 to date mostly
Japanese two shaft.
g/ 16 different makes, mostly petrol or kerosene burning and now obsolete.
3/ Ursus (Polish)
2/ Bylarus (Russian) - mainly on sugar and PWD work.
5/ 1,000 under ADB loan.
&/ On order or shipped to date.
7/ Feng Shou (Chinese)
Source: Up to 1971 - Manufacturers/Imports records
1971-1975 - Tractor Corporation



\NNEX 4
Page 8
area of developed paddy 7and in the Dry and l,,,rmedipte
Zu,_ will tlherefore L  about i,075,000 ac and will be
cropped at an average in ensity of 160%.
(b)  The prime purpose of r      n inizatr-. is to increase agricul-
tural production and co re"te, rather than c' crease,
employment opportunities. To achieve this a level of
tractor power of 1-etween 0.2 and 0.25 -TP/ac of developed
land would be req red.
(c)  The best source IJi agricultural ;power in 'he Dry Zone is
a mix of 4-whee3. f.ractors (35-40 HP (PTO)) and 2-wheel
tractors (2 shafL design in the 9-8 HP range). The proposed
product mix (numbers) of the;?- two types is based on the
following asumptions:
(i)  4-wheel  .ractors will continue to )erform 75% of the
"first operation" tillage and will be used for other
work at a rate equivalent to approximately 50% of the
annual hours required for "first operation" tillage.
(ii)  2-wheel tractors will be used for approximately 75% of
"second operation" tillage and will be usud on other
work at a rate equivalent to approximately 50% of the
hours required for "second operation" tillage work.
(d)  It is estimated that tractor usage is about 1,000 hours/
annum for both 4-wheel and 2-wheel tractors.
(e)  It is estimated that the annual rate of replacement would
be 7% for 4-wheel tractors and 8% for 2-wheelers.
14.       Based on the above assumptions, the following forecasts can be
made:
(a)  Basic power requirements in the Dry and Intermediate Zones:
1975 LA ac of developed land 4 0.2 - 0.25 HP/ac           200,000 HP
"J85 1,100 M ac of developed land
a 0.2 - 0.25 HP
per acre       2    250,000 HP



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(b) 1975 tractor requirements
(i)  4 wheel, 35-40 HP (PTO)
1 M ac at 140% cropping intensity               1.4 M ac
75% of this or 1.05 M ac d 2 hrs/acre
first operation tillage                    2.1 M hrs
Plus 50% of tillage hrs on other work           1.05 M hrs
Total                     3.15 M hrs
0 1,000 hrs per tractor                         3;000 tractors
10% contingency                                   300
Total 4-wheel tractors requirements        3,300 tractors
a 37 HP per tractor - 122,100 HP
(ii) 2 wheel, 5-8 HP
1.05 M ac (75% of total) at average of
7 hrs per acre on secondary operation
tillage                                   7.35 M hrs
Plus 50% of tillage hrs on other work           3.7 M hrs
Total hours per year           11.05 M hrs
* 1,000 hrs per tractor                        11,000 tractors
10% contingency                                 1,100 tractors
Total 2-wheel tractor requirements        12,100
O average 6 HP per tractor                     72,500 HP
This mix - 3,300 four wheel tractors and 12,100 two wheelers -
would provide an "agricultural power park" of 194,600 HP or
approximately 0.2 HP per acre of developed land.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
(c) 1985 tractor requirements
(i) 4 wheel, 35-40 HP (PTD)
1,125,000 ac 0 160% intensity             1.8 M ac
75% of this or 1.35 M ac f 2 hrs per
acre first operation tillage              2.7 M hrs
Plus 50% of tillage hrs on other work          1.35 M hrs
Total hours per year           4.05 M hrs
 1,000 hrs per tractor (approximately)        4,000 tractors
10% contingency                                  400 tractors
Total 4-wheel tractor requirements        4,400 tractors
- average 37 HP (PTO) per tractor         162,800 HP
(ii) 2 wheel, 5-8 HP (engine)
1.35 M ac (75% of total) at average
7 hrs per acre for second operation
tillage                              9.4 hrs
Plus 50% of tillage hrs on other work   4.7 hrs
Total hours per year          14.1 hrs
d 1,000 hrs per tractor                  14,000 tractors
10% contingency                           1,400 tractors
Total 2 wheel tractor requirements       15,400 tractors
0 average 6 HP per tractor    92,000 HP
This mix - 4,400 four-wheetl tractors and 15,400 two wheelers -
would provide an "agricultural power park" of approximately
250,000 HP or approximately 0.22 HP per acre of developed land.
The results of these calculations can be summarized as follows:
Tractor Requirements
Current (1975) Future (1985)
4-wheel tractors - 35-40 HP (PTO)          3,300           4,400
2-wheel tractors - 5-8 HP (EngiLne)       12,100          15,400



ANNEX 4
Page 11
15.       on the basis of these calculations the current active four-wheel
tractor park is about 1,650 units short of requirements. GOSL requested the
importation of 1,000 units under the Project. Given the shortage of IDA
funds, it is recommended that primary emphasis be given to the rehabilita-
tion of those tractors which are of modern design and economically repaira-
ble, their number is estimated at 1,600 units. Their rehabilitation would
go a long way towards meeting farm power requirements. Average cost of
replacement and spare parts to repair one unit is estimated at US$600 cif
or approximately 10% of the cif cost of a new tractor. Spare parts require-
ments to keep the presently operating fleet going are estimated at US$200/
unit (cif).
16.       Repair facilities and experienced mechanics are available in
Sri Lanka. However, these services could not be expected to undertake a
rehabilitation program of repairing 1,600 tractors in one year in addition
to their normal maintenance and repair duties. It is estimated that annual
additional repair capacity would be equivalent to 800 units so that all units
could be rehabilitated over a two-year period.
17.       The rehabilitation program would be complemented by the importation
of new tractors and about US$2 M would be set aside for this purpose. Imports
would consist primarily, if not exclusively, of four-wheel tractors. How-
ever, even the importation of 400 new four-wheel tractors would not suffice
to meet actual farm power needs. Subject to regular replacement of the
existing fleet (7% per annum) outside the Project, the proposed support
would assist in temporarily reaching four-wheel tractor requirements in
1978/79. Subsequently the deficit would widen and total annual import demand
to meet projected requirements and to regularly replace the existing fleet would
rise by 1985 to about 1300 tractors (see Table 4a).
18.       Because of the expected continuing shortage of tractors, distribu-
tion of imported units needs to be strictly organized. Distribution would
best be based on a "wait list" system as already in force in India. Farmers
interested in purchasing a new tractor would be asked to complete an
"eligibility questionnaire". Amongst the criteria for eligibility would be
land ownership and previous proven experience in tractor custom hire work.
Eligible applicants would be required to deposit a fixed sum, possible
Rs 2,000 for a four wheel tractor, as "earnest money" before being placed on
the waiting list. This would entitle them to a purchase permit. Issuance
of eligibility questionnaires and selection of applicants should be carried
out by the technical subcommittee in the Ministry of Agriculture. The sub-
committee would also be responsible for distribution of tractors to different
districts and actual allocation to individuals on a first come first served
basis. Physical handling and importing of tractors would remain the responsi-
bility of the Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation on behalf of the Project Prepara-
tion Committee (para. 6.01 main text). During negotiations assurances
were obtained that necessary medium term credit facilities would be made
available to allow farmers to purchase new tractors.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
19.       Tractors to be procured urnder the Project would be purchased on
the basis of international competitive bidding bearing in mind buyers pre-
ferences. Annex 13 gives details of the method of procurement. Responsibility
for determining buyers preference would also rest with the technical sub-
committee to be established within the Ministry of Agriculture. The sub
committee would report to the Project Coordination Committee which would
aggregate the orders received accorcling to first tractor choice.
20.       The shortage of two-wheel tractors is equally serious.  It can
be assumed that most of the units imported since 1969, some 7,500, are in
fair operating conditions or could be repaired. Total requirement for new
tractors and replacements would be around 1,5013 units per year (see Table 4b).
IV. Tractor Implements and Organization and Support Services
21.       The Sri Lanka State Trading (Tractor) Corporation (SLTC), under
the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade, was established in July 1971.
It is the sole importer of tractors, tractor spares and tractor implements.
22.       Imports of tractors and equipment are made under licenses and
foreign exchange allocations grantecl by GOSL. Application for import
licenses may be initiated by the Corporation itself or through them by
government departments or local distributors/dealers. The terms of refer-
ence of the Corporation are:
(a) importation of tractors, tractor accessories, tractor
spare parts and components, and earth moving machinery;
(b) distribution and supply of articles specified in (a) above;
(c)  provision of facilities for repair and servicing of tractors
and earth moving machinery;
(d) provision of facilities for the training of persons in the
use and maintenance of tractors and earth moving machinery;
(e)  purchasing and stocking of articles of such importation;
(f)  distribution and supply by wholesale or retail of such
articles; and
(g)  carrying on of any other business which can, in the opinion
of the Directors of the Corporation, be advantageously carried
on by the Corporation as ancillary to the general business of
the Corporation.



SRI LANKA
AaRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TAB3LE 4: PROJECTED MINDMUM DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
FOUR WHEEL AND TWO WHEEL TRACTORS
(I)          (2)         (3)          (4)            (5)          (6)          (7)          (8)          - (9)
Total
Replacement   Projected                 Replacement  Replacement  Import Re-
Beginning of Rehabili-                 Requirements  Total           Balance    Requirements Requirements quirements
Year    Year Fleet    tation 1/  Importatio r for 1+2+3 2   Requirements  (5)-(1)    for (6)            4  +  7      6  +  8 Z/
a) Four-wheel Tractors
1976       1650          800         300           115            3300         1650           -           115          1765
1977       2750          800         100           190            3420          670         115           305           975
1978       3650           -           -            255           3545           (95)        160           415            320
1979       3650           -           -            255           3665            15         155           410           425
1980       3650           -           -            255            3790          140         155           410           550
1981       3650           -           -            255            3910          260         165           420           680
1982       3650           -           -            255           4030           380         185           440           820
1983       3650           -           -            255            4155          505         210           465            970
1984       3650           -           -            255           4275           625         245          500           1125
1985       3650           -           -            255            4400          750         290           545          1295
2 To be provided under Project
/ Required to be imported to provide and maintain total requirements
b) Two-wheel Tractors
1976       7000           -           -            560          12,100         5100          -            560          5660
1977       7000           -           -            560          12,465          465        410            970          1435
1978       7000           -           -            560          12,830          365        445           1005          1370
1979       7000           -           -            560          13,195          365        475          1035            1400
1980       7000           -           -            560          13,560          365        505           1065          1430
1981       7000           -           -            560          13,925          365        530           1090          11455
1982       7000           -           -            560           14,290         365        560           1120           1485
1983       7000           -           -            560           114,655        365        590           1150          1515
1984       7000           -           -            560          15,020          365        620           1180           1545
1985       7000           -           -            560          15,400          365        650           1210          1575



ANNEX 4
Page 14
23.       Shortage of foreign exchange has restricted imports, and many of
the tractors brought into the country durlng recent years came under bilat-
eral aid arrangements. This has made it difficult for SLTC to draw up long
term import and service development plans and also resulted in an increas-
ingly heterogeneous tractor park.
24.       The standard implements used with 4-wheel tractors in Sri Lanka
are the Ferguson type spring trip tyne tiller (mostly 9 tyne) and the single
axle trailer of 2 to 3 ton capacity. Practically every tractor on the island
is equipped with both these implements. In fact, with the number of tractors
now inoperative due to lack of spare parts, it is estimated that the park of
operative tillers and trailers is greater than the park of operating tractors.
Both tillers and trailers are locally manufactured (using some imported com-
ponents). However, the locally manufactured "Ferguson" type tiller is of
obsolete design and should be replaced by a 'heavy duty tyne cultivator'. This
cultivator is less costly to manufacture, is sturdier and less subject to
service problems and not only will it penetrate better in hard ground, but
in secondary tillage, due to the flexing action of the tynes, it breaks up
soil better and forms a better seed bed, its use would make after harvest
tillage and dry tillage more practical.
25.       Very few disc plows are in use, they would be important where
primary tillage is carried out under dry conditions. During secondary
tillage they should be followed by heavy duty offset type disc harrows.
To permit better water control and more efficient use of machinery, land
levelling, helping consolidation of small plots, is badly needed. This
could economically be undertaken by 4-wheel tractors in the 35-40 HP class
equipped with rear mounted blades. None of these implements is presently
known in the country; they could be introduced through the demonstration
and training farms of the Department of Agriculture.
26.       SLTC has appointed former importers/distributors of the more
popular makes of 4-wheel tractors as distributors (main dealers). These
companies have a network of branches and/or dealers throughout the country
who provide training and pre andl after sales service on the tractors they
distribute. In recent years distributors and dealers had few tractors to
sell, their operation margins are fixed by SLTC and their service operations
are restricted by scarcity of spare parts. Consequently, many of the pri-
vate dealers had to close down. The larger distributors survived because
farm machinery is in most cases only a part of a larger engineering enter-
prise. The previously well established network of country dealers and their
associated repair shops is rapidly deteriorating.
27.       SLTC has retained for themselves the function of distributor (main
dealers) for all makes of imported 2-wheel tractors. They have appointed
dealers in each district to deliver and for after-sales service. A con-
siderable number of these dealers are District Cooperative Societies, most



ANNEX 4
Page 15
of whom have no service facilities and no experience in marketing or serv-
icing farm machinery. The whole system of repair and maintenance services
for two-wheel tractors needs to be re-organized.
28.       With the exception of tractors owned by Government Departments -
less than 20% of the total - all tractors in Sri Lanka are repaired in
private workshops. The majority of these workshops are owned and operated
by dealers or branches of the main dealers/distributors who also operate
central workshops where specialized jobs, requiring specialized and expen-
sive equipment, can be carried out - crankshaft grinding, diesel fuel pump
overhaul and adjustment, etc. In addition to the organized system of work-
shops there are a large number of independent small village repair units.
These are generally poorly equipped and mechanics and owner/operators lack
proper training, nevertheless they have been important in keeping the tractor
fleet going. These shops also carry out most of the repair on 2-wheel trac-
tors.
29.       The Department of Agriculture has its own service and repair net
work, one main workshop and eight field repair depots, to look after its
considerable fleet of tractors and vehicles. This service is duplicated
by other Government repair stations, notably those of the Department of
Machinery and Equipment, Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways, con-
sisting of one main and 16 regional and branch workshops.
30.       Sri Lanka has a relatively long experience in agricultural mech-
anization and a large number of people have been trained in the operation
and repair of tractors and farm machinery. All major, importers/distributors
of four-wheel tractors conduct operator and mechanic training courses and, upon
delivery of tractors to customers, give on the spot instruction on operation
and maintenance. In addition the Department of Labour maintains training
centers for tractor operators and mechanics and the Sri Lanka Transport
Board conducts training and updating courses for automotive mechanics of all
types. Training in maintenance and operation of 2-wheel tractors is poor
as SLTC, the main dealer/distributor, does not provide the necessary services.
The gap is filled to a same extent by the West German-Sri Lanka Farm
Mechanization Training Center at Anuradhapura and the Land Commissioners
Department's training program which is focused on youth settlement and
cooperative farm schemes, and emphasizes training on 2-wheel tractors.
Training is given in a center in Colombo and in regular field courses.
V. Pricing
31.       All new tractors, most new farm machinery and, until recently,
many spare parts including tires, can only be sold against permits. These
permits are issued by the District Government Administrative Authority.



ANNEX 4
Page 16
32.       Import taxes and application of FEEC's varies between different
types of tractors and tractor implements (see Table 5). For example, no
FEEC's is charged on the importation of two wheel tractors, but charged
on four-wheel tractors. All prices for tractors and implements along the
marketing channel are fixed by SLTC (see Table 6). Charges retained by
SLTC, a non-profit making organization, appear to be in excess of services
performed and do not compare with the renumeration allowed to dealers.
33.       Margins for spare parts are also fixed by SLTC and are too low
to allow dealers to keep even minimum stocks. Parts can only be imported
by dealers through SLTC on the basis of permits backed by foreign exchange.
Table 7 gives an indication of margins.
Table 5: IMPORT CHARGES FOR FARM TRACTORS AND IMPLEMENTS
Item                            FEECS (65% on C & F)   Import Duties
4-wheel agricultural tractors                   yes                no
2-wheel agricultural tractors                   no              25% on F.O.B.
Implements for 4-wheel tractors                 yes                no
Implements for 2-wheel tractors                 no              25% on F.O.B.
Spare parts - 4- and 2-wheel tractors           yes             0-100% on F.O.B.
Source: Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation.



ANNEX 4
Page 17
Table 6: Marketing Charges for Four Wheel and Two Wheel Tractors
Four Wheel Tractors    Two Wlheel Tractors
Rs             Rs
CIF Price                                         34s500.00       ,5675.o0
FEECS - at 65% of C & F                           22,425.00           -
Import Duties                                        -             1,418.75
Insurance - 1 1/2% of C & F                          517.50           85.12
Bank charges - 1 1/4% of C & F                       431.25           70.94
Landing, clearing and delivery - fixed               150.00           75.00
Duty free dues - fixed                                20.00           10.00
Transport - fixed                                     50.00           25.00
Tractor Corporation "Landed Cost" (LC)         A8,093.75        7,359.81
Bank interest - 9 1/2% for 6 months on LC          2,759.45          349.59
Assembly charges - fixed                             -                70.00
Tractor Corporation overheads -    on LC           2,904.69          367.99
Tractor Corporation Commission                     1,452.34-/        367.992
Tractor Corporation mark up                          -               150.00
Business Turnover Tax                                -                92.50
Price to Main Dealer/Distributor               65,210.23        8,757.88
Main Dealer/Distributor fixed allowances:
Rs
CoTmission        - 700,00                             350o00
Installation      - 100.00
1st free service  - 100.00
2nd free service  - 100.00
3rd free service  - 100.00
Total                      1,100.00
Business Turnover Tax (BTT) at 1%                    663.00           -
Price to Farmer                                66,973.23        9,107.88
-/2 1/2% on LC
g 5, on LC
Source:  Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation



AMN=5 4
Page 18
Table 7: MARGIN FOR TRACTOR SPARE PARTS
Z of landed cost
Price to     Price to   Price to   Ret il
Main Dealer    Dealer    Stockist   Price
Slow moving            22-1/2         87         15         33
Medium moving           15            55         73         84
Fast moving             7-1/2         26         35         40
Source: Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation.
VI. Limitation of Proposed IDA Assistance
34.       The proposed assistance for the development of farm power would be
restricted to the Dry Zone and, nearly exclusively,, to four-wheel tractors.
The concentration on the Dry Zone, linked to supports to the Department of
Agriculture (Annex 2) and to the Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
(Annex 5) t i based upon the Importance and potential of the Zone as a suppUer
of food grains. Furthermore, most areas In the Wet Zone are not suitable
for four-wheel tractor cultivation due to soil conditions and the very small
sizo of individual paddy plots. In the Intermediate Zone, buffaloes play
i Important role and mechanized cultlvation Is largely undertaken by two-wheel
tractors. This Is due to better soil conditions and more plentiful rainfall.
33.       The proposed concentration on four-wheel tractors, Is a comse-
quence of GOSL policy. In 1973 the Ministry of Planning and EconomIc Affairs
instituted a program to develop and locally manufacture to-wh-el tractors
of the single axle Landmaster/IRRI type. Development is based on five GOSL
luatitutions, each to develop a prototype. Every one of the five different
prototypes would be constructed by two "Medium Scale lLght Englneering Coop-
erative Societies" which have been, or will be established. The planned
productlon for Hay 1976 Is 25 units per month per "Cooperative Society", a
total of 3,000 units per year. It is planned to expand production to 5,000
unIt per year. GOSL has also comenced negotiations vith a Japanese manu-
facturer regarding the establishment of a joint venture ompany to manufac-
tur 2-wheal tractors of the 2-uhaft design in SrI Lanka.
36.       The national production program for 2-wheel tractors as planned
appears to be economically and technically unsound. The multiplicity of types
ppears to be unnecessary and the domestic market not large enough to warrant
a national industry other than assembly. The production target of 3,000
to 5,000 units exceeds any reasonable forecast of demnd which can be
estimated at around 2,000 unlts/year. It Is proposed that under the Project



ANNEX 4
Page 19
technical assistance be provided to help GOSL in equipment product planning
and reorganization of the repair and maintenance facilities. The proposed
team of experts would advise GOSL on the program for two-wheel tractor
manufacture - see Appendices for TOR. However, to avoid any conflict, with
the GOSL program, it is proposed to use IDA funds for importation of two wheel
tractors only in special cases. Any expenditure for the importation of two-
wheel tractors, would reduce funds available for the procurement of four-wheel
units. Spare parts for two-wheel tractors already in the country, should
be obtained by using bilateral assistance.
VII. Project Support
37.       The Project would provide financial support for the importation of
spare parts required to rehabilitate around 1,600 inoperative 4-wheel farm
tractors. Average cif costs for spare part importation is estimated at
US$600, about 10 of the cost of a new tractor. Total allocations would be
US$0.96 M.1/
38.       To assure the continuing operation of the existing 4 wheel-farm
power fleet funds would be made available for the importation of fast moving
spare parts for the approximated 1,600 units presently operative. Costs per
tractor are estimated at US$200 or a total of US$320,000.
39.       To further supplement agricultural farm power build up the Project
would provide US$1.85 M for the importation of new tractors, primarily four-
wheel units. This allocation would be equivalent to the import value of
370 four-wheel units.
40.       To introduce new tractor equipment, funds would be applied for the
importation of some 40 sets of heavy duty tyne cultivators, disc ploughs,
offset disc harrows and rear mounted levelling blades. They would be allo-
cated to the main farm research and training centers and Government farms for
demonstration purposes. Once successfully introduced, all these implements
could be produced locally except for such items as bearings and disc blades.
Total Credit allocation would be US$95,000.1/
41.       GOSL and SLTC have little experience in product planning, demand
forecasting and facilities planning. There is also a need to re-organize,
modernize and co-ordinate GOSL equipment repair services and spare part
storage ,and distribution systems. To assist in this the project would
provide finance for the services of two specialists for two years each.
Their terms of reference are attached. Total allocation would be
US$200,000. Employment of the specialists would be subject to their qualifi-
cation being acceptable to the Association. The specialists would work closely
with the consultant to be employed to assist DNE (see Annex 5).
1/   Excluding price contingencies.



ANNEX 4
Page 20
42.       To prevent the recurrence of the run down of farm power through
lack of spares and replacements, assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that GOSL, after completion of disbursement of project funds, would
annually make sufficient foreign exchange available to maintain the tractor
fleet.
VIII. Benefits
43.       Precise quantitative assessment of benefits from improved tractor
operation must necessarily be subjective. Broadly they would be:
(a) Soils in most of the Dry Zone are extremely baked at the
beginning of the Maha and Yala cultivation seasons. Culti-
vation by buffalo or manual labor is not possible, nor are
two-wheel tractors sufficiently powerful to brake the soil.
(b) Expanded paddy cultivation in the Dry Zone, part of GOSL's
drive towards greater self sufficiency in food grains,
exceeds the potential of the buffalo herd and has to be
based upon mechanical cultivation. The stagnation of the
tractor fleet is one of the main reasons for the slow
development of food grain production.
(c)  Expansion of food production is based upon a combination of
acreage increase and increases in double cropping. The main
constraint for the latter is water availability resulting
from Maha rains. Use of irrigation water to soften the
soil for Maha crops reduces water availability for Yala.
This implies that in the absence of mechanical power Yala
cultivation will be reduced.
(d) Traditionally in the Dry Zone, tillage has to be delayed until
monsoon rains soften the soil, this is getting increasingly
problematic since the new and old HYV's are much more photo-
sensitive than the traditional varieties. Delays in sowing
have very detrimental effects upon yields. Department of
Agriculture surveys have shown that sowing by mid-December
against sowing by the recommended time - mid-October - can
result in a yield reduction of up to 40%.
44.       Benefits from mechanization could consequently be estimated as:



ANNEX 4
Page 21
Benefits per four-wheel tractor:
average timely Maha cultivation on        100 ac
average incremental Yala cultivation       30 ac
Yield increase for Maha crop 10% or say   5 bu paddy/acre
Yield of Yala crop say                     45 bu paddy/acre
Total incremental yield 1,850 bu
at Rs 33/bu                             Rs 61,050
less tractor operating cost /a            Rs 13,125
less estimated value of Chena
cultivation lb                          Rs 8,000
Approximate benefit per tractor
excluding labor and other input
costs                                   Rs 40,000
/a   Assumption that four-wheel tractor undertakes 1st and 2nd
cultivation at Rs 25/hour.
/b   Assumption that in the absence of Maha cropping farmers
would plant 1/2 ac food grains for each acre Yala rice.
For 1,600 tractors presently not or hardly employed in agriculture, and to
be rehabilitated under the project plus around 370 units to be imported, total
benefits could be assessed at 3.6 M bu of paddy or about 45,000 tons of rice
annually, equivalent to about one eighth of annual imports. Resulting foreign
exchange savings at projected 1980 world market prices would be US$10.8 M.
45.       The proposed mechanization would primarily affect preparatory
tillage, threshing and sowing. These activities are those normally under-
taken by animals. Human labor input would also be influenced but any loss
would be made up by higher cropping intensity and productivity. The two
most labor intensive operations are harvesting and weeding which account
for approximately 50% of total labor input; they are not affected by tractor
usage. As borne out in other countries, limited use of tractors in the Dry
Zone of Sri Lanka would likely increase, rather than decrease, human labor
input per farm unit.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX I
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE,
Agricultural Engineer
1.   Title - Agricultural Engineer -- Farm and Land Development
Equipment Product Planning and Facilities expert.
2.   Qualifications - Long term, high level experience, preferably in the
commercial field in forecasting product demands and in
organizing distribution and service facilities and methods
in the Farm and ConstrLCtion Machinery industry. Degree
in agricultural or mechanical engineering desirable but
not essential.
3.   Post Duration - 24 months.
4.   Headquarters - Colombo with extensive travel throughout Sri Lanka.
5.   Duties - The expert will be attached to the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs but will work closely with the Department
of Agriculture, the Department of Machinery and Equipment,
the State Tractor Corporation and the State Hardware Corpora-
tion to develop policies and programs in the following areas
relative to the procurement, distribution and servicing of
Farm and Land Development Machinery in Sri Lanka.
(a) Product and Facilities Planning - The expert will assist
in the development of medium and long term forecasts on
which local production programs and annual import re-
quirements can be based.
(b) Distribution and Pricing - To assist the State Tractor
Corporation in establishing poLicies and programs relative
to the distribution, marketing and pricing of imported
agricultural and land development equipment and spare
parts for same.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX I
Page 2
(c) Service Facilities - The expert will assist the Department
of Agriculture and the Department of Machinery and Equip-
ment in the reorganization and modernization of their
network of repair workshops, in establishing a coopera-
tive sharing of work load between these departments
and in streamlining the administrative and operational
procedures followed.
(d) Local Manufacture - The expert will assist in establishing
a planned product line of agriculture tools and machines
with annual demand forecasts on which a rational local
production program can be based. He will also
assist in coordinating utilization of the manufacturing
facilities of the Department of Agriculture implement fac-
tory, the State Hardware Corporation and other state and
privately owned manufacturers facilities in this planned
local production program.
(e) Procurement - Develop specifications and tender documents
for international procurement of tractors and machines.



ANNEX 4
APPENDIX II
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Agricultural Service Engineer
1.   Title - Service Engineer, agricultural and land development equipment.
2.   Qualifications - Long term experience at the management level in the
development and operation of maintenance and repair facilities
for large fleets of agricultural and land development equipment.
3.  Post Duration - 24 months.
4.   Post Headquarters - Colombo/Kandy with extensive travel throughout Sri
Lanka.
5.   Duties - The consultant will be attached to the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs. He will work with and under the direction
of the "Agricultural E,ngineer" (Appendix I) in the following
areas:
(a)  Assist the Agricultural Engineer particularly in the devel-
opment of machinery service facilities and programs in both
the public and the private sectors.
(b) Assist in the reorganization and modernization of the
Department of Agriculture workshops and in coordination of
the activities of th,ese facilities with those of the Depart-
ment of Machinery and Equipment.
(c) Organize and expedite a tractor and vehicle rehabilitation
program on a crash basis in and between the Department of
Agriculture and the Department of Machinery and Equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION
I. Introduction
1.       Water Resources.  Almost 75% of the island falls within the Dry
Zone, hence surface water and groundwater resources are of particular in-
terest for agricultural development. Given the relatively high total annual
rainfall, high rainfall intensities and runoff, conditions are favorable
for surface water storage in times of plenty for use as supplementary ir-
rigation in dry periods. Estimates of potential runoff for the island
(Table 1) give an order of magnitude of potential surface water storage.
Although the figures are overestimates of runoff and potential storage,
it is clear that Sri Lanka is well endowed with surface water in relation
to its surface area.
Table 1: ESTIMATED AVERAGE ANNUAL PRECIPITATION AND RUNOFF
(million acre feet)
Dry Zone       Wet Zone       All Island
Annual Precipitation  57.0            32.0           89.0
Estimated Runoff       20.7           20.9           41.6
Balance          36.3            11.1          47.4
Source:  "Water Resources of Ceylon", S. Arumugan, Water
Resources Board, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
2.        The role of paddy as Sri Lanka's staple food has led to widespread
development of irrigation systems in both the Wet and Dry Zones. In the
Wet Zone, where annual rainfall generally exceeds 75" and is fairly well
distributed, irrigation is limited to supplementary river diversion or what
is, in effect, impounded rainfall in the steep narrow valleys in the lower
hill country. In the Dry Zone the lower absolute rainfall, its heavy
concentration in the Maha season, and the great variability in timing and
amount, results, with some exceptions, in irrigation being essential for the
permanent cultivation of annual crops. While there is some diversion of the
few major perennial streams (which have their headwaters in the Wet Zone),
the larger part of irrigation in the Dry Zone is based on small reservoirs
or tanks in which seasonal flows and wet season rainfall are collected.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.        Irrigation in Sri Lanka ha;s a very long history.  Early settle-
ments in the Dry Zone depended heavily on irrigated paddy cultivation, in
combination with rainfed chena production of other food crops, and there is
evidence of tanks being constructed in the vicinity of Anuradhapura as early
as the 5th century BC. The construction of large tanks probably began in the
first century AD, and ancient irrigation reached its zenith in the 12th
century when King Parakrama directed a huge expjansion of storage and irri-
gation facilities; though these systems were gradually abandoned, many of
them form the basis of systems currently in use. Interest in Dry Zone
irrigation was revived under British rule, and several early Governors de-
veloped individual schemes, based mostly on the restoration of ancient
tanks. The Irrigation Department, set up in 1900, continued the restoration
work and began some new irrigation systems in the Dry Zone, as well as im-
proved drainage in the Wet Zone. With independence in 1947, construction
began on the Gal Oya scheme, in Amparai district, a major irrigation set-
tlemeut scheme in the Dry Zone; this was followed by a number of medium and
large scale works. With the completion of the Gal Oya scheme, a second
major basin development scheme began at Walawe, Hambantota district, in
southeast Sri Lanka. In 1970, construction was begun on the first stage of
the Mahaweli Ganga development project, which is by far the most ambitious
and expeasive land development project in Sri Lanka's history. The first
stage development received Bank Group assistance and the second stage has
recently been appraised by a World Bank Group mission, jointly with several
bilateral aid agencies.
4.        There has been no systematic exploration for groundwater and in-
formation on potential supplies is limited. In the central highlands, the
'ignevus.rocks do not contain water but simll water supplies are found in
fissures and depressions which have been filled with alluvial material. The
major -known. source of underground wa'ter occurs' in the'northwest of the Dry
Zone, in the sedimentary limestone basin extending along the coast from
Puttalam to Jaffna; some is exploited commercially in the Jaffna area for the
intensive production of vegetable crops. Available data indicate that the
groundwater is floating on sea water, thus offering the risk of saltwater
intrusion into the freshwater basin,
II. Organizational Framework
5.        Responsibility for irrigat:ion construction, operation and main-
tenance'is confused. The central organization is the Ministry of Irriga-
tion, Power and Highways (MIPH) witlh its various subordinate boards and
units, amongst these the:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Irrigation Department                          (ID)
Department of Machinery and Equipment          (tIE)
Territorial Civil Engineering Organization   (TCEO)
State Development and Construction
Corporation
River Valley Development Board                 (RVB)
Mahaweli Development Board                      (MDB)
and, to a lesser extent, such organization as:
The State Engineering Corporation
The Sri Lanka Construction Consortium, and
The Sri Lanka Army Corps of Engineers
being actively engaged in irrigation construction.
6.        The private sector, formerly leading in construction activities,
has all but ceased to be a significant factor. Lack of foreign exchange to
purchase repair parts and replacement machinery, as well as the requisitioning
of construction machinery, has reduced its capacity.
7.        The Project would provide support to the TCEO, the DME and ID.
TCEO and DME were selected as they are basically service units affecting
the largest numbers of farmers and projects. Support to ID is more limited
but would allow for speedy completion of two onrgoing projects. Additional
Project,assistance would be provided to MDB and ID through the Mahaweli
Ganga Stage II and the Irrigation Rehabilitation projects.  The following
paragraphs explain the interlocking roles of the organizations directly
affected by the project.
8.        The Territorial Civil Engineering Organization was established on
January 1, 1971, and given the responsibility for the operation and mainte-
nance of all established irrigation projects down to field channels. Field
channels, the last one-half mile or 50 ac service area, are operated by
Cultivation Committees (CC's). In addition to its operation and maintenance
responsibility, the TCEO was also given responsibility for the construction
of smaller irrigation projects, i.e. those costing less than Rs 2-1/2 M.
It is also charged with the construction and maintenance of roads, domestic,
and municipal water supply and public buildings. In its construction program
TCEO uses labor intensive methods and finances projects through the Decentralized
Budget of GOSL. Only in cases involving substantial earth movement does
TCEO resort to contracts for construction, customarily relying upon the DME.
TCEO has no 'in-house' earth moving construction capability.
9.        The Department of Machinery and Equipment was formed shortly after
TCEO. DME is the central holding pool for machinery and equipment and is
responsible for its repair and maintenance and for the assignment, under
rental agreement, of machines and equipment to various projects and construc-
tion organizations in compliance with priorities established by the MIPH.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
At the time DME was organized, all equipment of the ID and part of the
equipment of the State Development and Construction Corporation was trans-
ferred to it. In addition, the RVDB handed over equipment; however only
items requiring heavy repairs. The major workshops, formerly operated by
the Mechanical Division of the ID, were transferred to DME.  To avoid the
necessity of bringing all machines Into the central workshop for repair,
DME has established 11 regional workshops.  These were to be stocked with
spare parts so they could handle most repair jobs.  However, because of lack
of foreign exchange, this has been only partiaLly realized.  In general, both
the central and regional workshops appear to be staffed by competent
technicians but limited in effectiveness by lack of spare parts and communi-
cation facilities.
10.       While it was the original intent that DUE would be responsible
only for repair and maintenance of equipment and assignment of such equip-
ment to various construction activities, it has become active in the
construction business and is now one! of the nation's leading construction
contractors. Generally, for jobs irnvolving 3,000 cubes or less (about
11,000 cubic yards) a machine with operator wiLl be rented to the construc-
tion organization. If the jobs exceteds 3,000 cubes, it is a common practice
for the Department to undertake the job on contract.
11.       Irrigation Department.  The ID, founded on May 15, 1900, was the
pioneer agency in the field of water resources development and it is re-
sponsible for the development achieved during the first half of the 20th
century. The ID was responsible for the planning of both single and multi-
purpose projects, construction and t:he operation and maintenance of com-
pleted works. This responsibility has been gradually reduced and ID is now
limited to planning of water resources development and to the construction
of those works costing more than Rs 2.5 M whiclh are not specifically as-
signed to other organizations.  It operates and maintains the works it is
constructing during their construction stage but after completion of con-
struction they are turned over to the TCEO for operation and maintenance.
12.       Since the transfer of ID raachinery to the DME in 1971, the ID has
very little construction capability left. It acquired some machinery and
equipment through two IDA credits (121-CE and 168-CE) for drainage and lift
irrigation. However, since neither of these projects involved extensive
earth movement, ID does not have any heavy earth moving equipment. Therefore,
ID must depend on contracts for mostl of the work that it is now attempting
to carry out.
III. The Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
Operation and Constraints
13.       The TECO is responsible for the operation and maintenance of 177
major tanks (those in excess of 2,000 ac ft) which provide water for 477,000
ac. In addition, TCEO manages the many small tanks in the Island with a



ANNEX 5
Page 5
combined command area of a further approximately 475,000 ac. These schemes
have a total of 3,147 mi of irrigation canals, including 1,343 mi of main
canals, 941 mi of distributaries, 863 mi of field canals. TECO is also
responsible for 16,290 mi of roads, of which 7,500 are primarily agricultural
service roads. TCEO also carries out an active construction program of minor
tanks; the 1974 construction program included water storage to serve 8,000
ac of new land.
14.       The present budget (1975) of TCEO, covering all its activities,
is Rs 180 M, of which Rs 137 M is for capital investments and Rs 43 M for
0 & M. Of the capital budget Rs 54 M or 40% is allocated to irrigation and
of the 0 & M budget Rs 25 M, or 60% is assigned to irrigation.
15.       Transport.  The Organization's staff of about 3,250 is organized
in nine regional and 115 divisional units. About 70% of the staff is in
the professional category, 30% are clerical, secretarial or statistical.
In irrigation, the major responsibility of the staff is the constant super-
vision and maintenance of infrastructure and the regulation of water flow.
Execution of this task is limited because of lack of staff mobility.
16.       TCEO's transport park consists of 27 "wagoneers", 120 four-wheel
drive vehicles, 284 lorries and 261 farm tractors used for haulage on con-
struction sites. All vehicles are owned by DME and leased by TCEO.
17.       With an average of only one 4-wheel drive vehicle per division
and no bicycles or motorbikes, TCEO personnel cannot generally visit tanks
and water distribution systems under its jurisdiction more than once or
twice a year. Consequently, once the sluices of the tanks are opened, the
irrigation system operates on a free-flowing basis with each irrigator
taking as much water as will naturally flow into this field canal. Con-
sequently, releases from storage are not coordinated with seasonal varia-
tions in demand or with rainfall. Also, water is not distributed equitably
to the various field channels, with the result that shortages are common in
the lower reaches of the distribution system.
18.       Surveying and Drafting Equipment.  TCEO is responsible for smaller
scale irrigation construction (see para 8). However, the Organization
never managed to acquire sufficient foreign exchange to obtain the neces-
sary surveying and drafting equipment. The lack of this equipment compounds
the problems associated with planning, designing and constructing minor ir-
rigation projects.
Project Support
19.       TCEO's responsibility is country wide.  However, irrigation re-
sponsibility is logically concentrated in the Dry Zone while in the Wet
Zone TCEO's task is more dominated by highway maintenance. Support under
the Project would focus on TCEO activities in the Dry Zone. Project funds
would be used for the importation of transport and limited construction



ANNEX 5
Page 6
equipment. Provision of transportation would aim at 2 vehicles per Division
in the Dry Zone. The construction equipment would suffice to allow TCEO
to maintain and repair irrigation facilities and continue with a limited
construction program. The Project would further provide for finance to import
the minimum required surveying and drafting equipment. Total IDA contributions,
excluding price contingencies, would be US$4.9 M (for details see Table 2).
20.       Construction equipment (US$3.2 M) would remain in the ownership
of DME and be assigned to TCEO on a rental basis for the completion of
specific jobs. Supervision transport and surveying and drafting equipment
would be allocated directly to TCEO. The Organization would use DME's re-
pair facilities to maintain its transport.
21.       Provision of the proposed transport cmd equipment alone would not
suffice to assure effective operation and maintenance of minor irrigation
schemes. Budget allocations for 0 & M provided by GOSL are presently only
a:ound Rs 25/acre/annum. This is insufficient and should be increased to
Rs 50/acre/annum. During negotiations assurances were obtained that 0 & M
allocations will be increased to around Rs 50/acre/annum by not later than
1979. With TCEO responsible for a total of around 950,000 ac (para 13)
annual 0 & M budget requirements would be approximately Rs 47.5 M.
Benefits
22.       Increased mobility of TCEO's divisional staff would allow better
control of irrigation networks. Better distribution of water and control
of water flows would increase production of paddy per acre by at least 5%
(estimates by TCEO based on practical experience in Sri Lanka). Current
production in TCEO controlled irrigation areas in the Dry Zone is about
45 bu/acre (2025 lbs).  With an average cropping density on these schemes
of 130%, total annual production would be around 1.3 M tons of paddy or
725,000 tons of rice.  The consequent incremental production coming out of
improved irrigation operation and maLintenance would be about 36,000 tons of
rice. At projected world market prices of US$240/t (constant 1973 prices)
this quantity would be valued at around US$8.6 M/annum, and would be
equivalent to nearly 11% of current rice imports.
IV. Department of Machinery and Equipment
Operation and Constraints
23.       At the time the DME was established, October 1971, the Irrigation
and the Public Works Departments and RVDB transferred 300 items of construction
machinery, about 500 4-wheel drive and pick-ups, 400 lorries, and 200 farm
tractors to the new organization. Since then DME has not received any



ANNEX 5
Page 7
foreign exchange for acquisition of new machinery, and only limited amounts
for the purchase of spare parts and shop supplies. 1/ The 1974 allotment
was received so late that only very limited sums could be expended and by
April 1975 no allocation for that year had been received.
24.       The neglect of DME's machinery park has resulted in a continuous
decline of the Department's construction capability. In 1974 it was estimated
that the effective capacity of the DME machinery park was only 25% of its
potential. Construction corporations and government agencies relying upon
DME's support could not obtain machines and consequently could not achieve
their construction programs.
Project Support
25.       The machinery park of DME includes 146 pieces of heavy construction
equipment primarily used for irrigation construction, presently inoperative
due to want of spares. In addition DME has a number of other machines and
equipment used exclusively for road construction and maintenance. The Project
would provide finance for the importation of spares and replacement parts to
rehabilitate the 146 units. Total allocation excluding price contingencies,
is estimated at US$2.59 M (for details see Table 3).
26.       Disbursement against this item would be subject to a detailed
assessment of the economics of repairing individual items.  DME staff would
undertake this assessment and submit, through the PCC, a list of required
spare parts for approval by the Association.
27.       The Project would also provide funds for the recruitment of a
specialist to assist DME in improving the Department's operations, advise on
deployment of Machinery, rental charges, improving repair and maintenance
services and generally assist MIPH on all aspects related to the operation
and maintenance of DME's construction fleet. The specialist, to be recruited,
subject to his qualifications being acceptable to the Association, would
also provide vital services for the implementation of the proposed Mahaweli
Ganga II and Irrigation Rehabilitation Projects. The specialist would work
closely with the consultants engaged to advise the Sri Lanka Tractor Corpora-
tion (Annex 4). For draft terms of reference for the specialist see
Appendix 1.
28.       DME has about 4,300 employees including 1,100 trained repairmen
and 2,500 trained machine operators sufficient to carry out the proposed
rehabilitation program. Considering the general lack of spare parts and
shop supplies, the repairmen have done an amazing job in keeping as many
machines in operation as they have. The annual operations budget for DME
is adequate to maintain the staff at an effective level.
1/   Foreign exchange allocations to DME:
1971 Rs   742,121              1973 Rs 1,812,575
1971 Rs 2,152,000              1974 Rs 1,400,000



AiNEX 5
Page 8
Benefits
29.       Assuming the rehabilitated 146 pieces of construction machinery
operate at 75% of their theoretical annual potential, they would perform
an average of 1,500 hours of work per machine per annum. Further assuming
the movement of only 10 cu yds of earth per hour per machine, annual per-
formance would be 15,000 cu yds. DNE's experience has indicated that
movement of 540 cu yds of earth is equivalent t:o the development of one
acre of land. This would imply an average of 28 ac per machine per year,
or a total of around 4,000 ac for the 146 machines.
30.       With average paddy yields of 45 bu per ac, annual production of
4000 ac would be 2300 t of rice, at projected rnarket prices of US$240/ton
equivalent to US$550,000. The average lifetime of rehabilitated machinery
would be around 10,000 hours or around 6.5 years. This would imply a po-
tential total land development of 26,000 ac producing 15,000 tons of rice
even disregarding double cropping, valued at US$3.6 M.
V. The Irrigation Department
Operation and Constraints
31.       The Irrigation Department's 1975 construction program includes
12 major irrigation projects, 8 drainage and reclamation projects, 4 lift
irrigation projects and 2 general projects under the Crash Food Production
Program. One of these involves drainage of 8,000 ac in the Wet Zone and
the other 4,000 ac of groundwater development-half in the Murunkan basin
and half in the Vanathavillu basin. In addition to its own program the
ID has agreed to undertake certain work for other irrigation and land
development agencies in Sri Lanka. The Department is executing work for the
MDB, the TCEO and the Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation on the Gal Oya Sugar
Plantation.
32.       The 12 major irrigation projects include seven that have been
underway for some time and five new projects. The seven projects under
construction were started several years ago and. should have been completed
some years back. However, construction has been delayed because of lack
of machinery and resulting inability to proceed at the planned rate. Con-
struction progress on five projects, namely Nagadeepa, Wahalkade, Muthukandiya,
Muthuaiyankaddu and the Gal Oya Sugar Plantation lands, has been particularly
disappointing. Of these five projects the Wahalkade and Muthuaiyankaddu schemes
would result in the earliest sustained production increases. ID has prepared
detailed and technically, as well as economically, sound feasibility studies
for the two schemes.
33.       Personnel.  The ID has 1,215 permanent employees plus as much
temporary help as needed. Of this total, 352 are engaged in construction,
438 in research, 137 in designs, 43 in planning and 245 in administration.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
The staff is adequate to carry out the Department's program; the delays
in the implementation resulted from a lack of machinery and equipment.
34.       Wahalkade - This project involves the reconstruction of an ancient
tank with a storage capacity of about 30,000 ac feet to serve a project area
of 2,000 ac. The project was approved in 1971 and construction was initiated
immediately thereafter. The major portion of construction is completed. A
new sluice has been constructed and the breach in the reservoir has been
filled. In addition, one mile of the main canal has been completed and about
250 ac of jungle have been cleared. The work remaining includes four miles
of main canal and the connecting distributaries, jungle clearing on about
1,750 ac and the construction of irrigation structures involving the place-
ment of about 10,000 cu yds of concrete. If construction should continue
at its present rate, it will take about three years to complete. With the
provision of foreign exchange to acquire some additional equipment to use
in the placement of concrete and for land clearing it will be possible to
cut this time in half. Lands are relatively flat and will be easy to de-
velop for irrigation. They could be used for the production of paddy and
other crops immediately after completion of irrigation works and of settle-
ment. The latter, responsibility of the Land Settlement Department, is
planned and in hand.
35.       Muthuaiyankaddu - This project, located in the North Central part
of the island, would involve drainage of 6,000 ac, requiring the movement
of 200,000 cu yds of earth; the construction of internal access roads, 80,000
cu yards of earth movement; the construction of a few field canals and
jungle clearing on about 200 ac. It would also involve construction of
structures for the drainage system, the access roads and the remaining field
canals. The reservoir, with a storage capacity of 41,000 ac feet, and the
main canal system have been completed. The area is already under cultivation
and no settlement problems would arise. Because of poor drainage crop
yields, primarily subsidiary food crops, are reduced by at least 25%-30%.
36.       TCE0 has agreed to do the earth work and is scheduled to complete
about half in 1975 and the balance in 1976. The ID is putting in the
structures. Considering the condition of the machinery available, it is
doubtful that TCEO will be able to meet its schedule.and it is highly unlikely
that ID will have the civil works completed in time.
Project Support
37.       The Project would provide foreign exchange for the importation of
limited machinery and equipment to allow ID speedy completion of the two
projects. Total allocation, excluding price contingencies, would be
US$550,000 (for details see Table 4).
38.       The major pieces of equipment to be provided under the Project,
such as stone crushers, air compressors, pay loaders, tipping trucks and
agricultural tractors and trailers, would be vested in DME and assigned to
the ID for the completion of the construction of the Wahalkade and



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Muthuaiyankaddu projects. When these projects are completed, the machinery
would be returned to the DNE for reassignment.  ID would utilize the services
of the workshops of DEE for major repairs of equipment acquired.
39.       Benefits.  The 2,000 ac on the Wahalkade Project used for paddy
production and securing the average country yield of 45 bu/ac, would pro-
duce 90,000 bu of paddy per year, equivalent to 1,200 tons of rice; with
the projected world market price of $240/ton valued at US$280,000/yr. The
value of gross production in two years would therefore equal 150% of the
value of the machinery and equipment provided for this sub project. The 6,000
acres on the Muthuaiyankaddu project are used for the production of chillies,
onions, vegetables for which very good market prospects exist. The proposed
improvements would increase the yields by about 25%. Average production of
chillies (dried) in Vavuniya District is around 1,000 lbs/acre, of red
onions about 9,000 lbs, and of Bombay onions about 7,500 lbs. The value
of a 25% increase in production of these crops would average at current
prices around Rs 1500/acre per season. The cost of the machinery and equip-
ment (approximately US$125,000 with spares) to be provided for this project
would be returned in a fraction of a year.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ7(7?
TERRITORIAL CIVIL ENGITERING SER.VICES
MACHINERY, SURVEYhDG EQUIPMENT AND DRAFTING SUPPLIES
I Cosstl-
NO.      Each      Total
Items                                                   --- (us$'105)-
I. Machinery and 31uipment
Jeeps                                                110      6.5         715
'rippers (small)                                      85      7.0         595
Farm Tractors                                         85      5.0         425
Lorries (5 tons)                                      20       7.5        150
Jeep Station Wagons                                    8      7.0          56
Motor Giraders                                         4     45.0         180
Front End Loaders                                     10      30.0        300
Water Bowsers                                          6      12.0         72
Dumpers ( to 3/4 cu yd)                              55      8.0         440
Concrete Mixers (5-8 cu ft), Mobile Type              60      2.0         120
Vibrating Rollers, Pedestrian Type                    85      3.0         255
Sludge Pumps (6")                                     80      2.0         160
Water Pumps (311 to 4"), Centrifugal Type            170      1.0         170
Generator Sets (5 kw)                                 12      2.0          24
Vibrators, Portable Type                              85      2.0         170
Excavators ( to 3/4 cu yd)                            6     20.0         120
Sab-total                     392
II.  Sirveying  BZuipment
Dumply Levels                                        300       1.0        300
Levelling Staves (14 ft)                             300      0.3          90
Steel Bends (100 ft)                                 300      0.1          30
Theodolites                                          100      1.0         100
Sub-total                       520
III.  Drafting Instruments
Planimeters                                           85      0.025 )
Parallel Ralers (1211 and 18"1)                      250      0.010 )
Rolling Rualers                                       85      0.010 )
Set Squares                                          500      0.020 )       8
Protractors                                          125       0.010 )
Scales                                               4.50     0.010 )
Pentograph                                             6      0.200 )
Leroy Sets                                             6      0.050 )
Paper & Misc. Supplies                   T                              1
Total                         47-
Spare Parts - 10% of value of machinery                                   395
Irand Total                   I91
1/ c.i.f. and excluding price contingencies.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
S.RT LANKA
AG7JCULTLRAL Dt'TLOPIE11TT PP''OtCT
DBp'> rP!i r T C0' MACirT ErE   ADZ(u= r 7>-iit-
D r=: IQ o7 -Xl" O ;Ff MAZA  -PY
FEAI-1 OF EXITSTJT    ' I , J'CLE.Y
Year of       Cost Of
Items                             No.      Purchase       Repair
TUMCi$TO0)
Motorized Scraper 21/28 cu yd
Caterpillar DW/21                          5         1960           130
Motorized Scrapr 15/21 cu yd
Wabco C Fallpak                            4          1963           75
Motorized Scraper 12.2/16 cu yd
Tournapull Model C                        14          1956          300
Motorized Scrapers 7_3/9 cu y
Wabco Model D                             19          1967          300
Crawler Tractor Class I
Allis chalmers HD 21A                     12          1957          275
Euclid 82-30                               9          1968          200
Caterpillar D/B 15A                       14          1959          310
Caterpillar D/B 1IA                        4          1956          100
Caterpillar D/8 13A                       10         1956           225
Caterpillar D/8 H                          2          1968           30
Allis chalmers HD/21P                     10          1967           55
Crawler Tractor Class II
International 'f) 15                       3          1968           50
Allis chalmer HD 20                        5          1955           80
Crawler Tractor Class III
Track Marshall 55                          2          1968           20
Track Marshall 70                         11          1968          135
Excavator l< cu yd
Marion 360                                 2          1949           65
Osgood                                     2          1949           65
R.B. 37                                    1          1948           20
Excavator 3/4 cu yd
Pristman Tiger                             3          1947           65
R.B. 22                                    2          1953           45
Euclid Water Bowser                         12          19148          45
2,590
1/ Foreign &change Cost only.



ANNEX 5
Table 4
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMNT
Project
Wahalkade   Muthuaiyankaddu
Unit         Total          Tota4
Cos l/ No.   Costl/  No.   Cost-/
(US$' 000)    (US$'oOO) -    (US$'000)
Stone Crusher (10/12 ton)              30.0    1      30.0    1    30.0
Air Compressor (500 cfm)                25.0    1     25.0    1    25.0
Air Compressor (300 cfm)                17.0    1     17.0    -        -
Hand Held Rock Drills                    0.5    8      4.0    6      3.0
Exploder                                0.6    2       1.2    1      o.6
Ohm Meters                              0.5    2       1.0    1      0.5
Pay Loader - Crawler (2 cu yd)          50.0    3    150.0    -        -
Pay Loader - Rabber Tired (2 cu yd)   40.0    1       40.0    -        -
Jeeps                                   6.5    4      26.0    2    13.0
Rollers (Pedestrian Operated)           1.5    3       4.5    -        -
Concrete Vibrators                      1.5    4       6.0    _        _
Agricultural Tractors                    5.0    4     20.0    2    10.0
Tl'rucks - Tipping (5 ton)               7.5    2     15.0    -        -
Concrete Mixer (7/5)                    1.5    4       6.0    4      6.0
Drill Steel                                -    -     40.0    -    25.0
Sub-total                                       385.7         113.1
Total - both projects                                         498.8
Rounded                                                   500.0
Spare Parts (10%)                                              50.0
,rand Total                                               550.0
1/  c.i.f. excluding price contingencies.






ANNEX 5
APPENDIX I
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT  TERMS OF REFERENCE FOP CONSULTANT
Background
1. *The Department of Machinery and Equipment (DME) of the Ministry
of Irrigation, Power and Highways (MIPH) is the central holding pool for
machinery and equipment used for construction of civil works including
irrigation. DME is also responsible for repair and maintenance of machines
and equipment and for their assignment, under rental agreement, to various
projects and construction organizations in compliance with priorities estab-
lished by MIPH.
2.        DME has a park of some 300 construction machines, about 400 four-
wheel drive and pick-up vehicles, 400 lorries and farm tractors. This
equipment is generally old and much of it is not operational for want of
spare parts.
Scope
3.        The reduced effective capacity of DME's fleet of irrigation con-
struction equipment is seriously affecting irrigation construction programs.
It is estimated that around 150 units of heavy construction equipment in the
hands of DME could be rehabilitated, however no precise assessment of the
economics of repairing machines and spare parts required to do so has as
yet been made but is shortly to be undertaken by DME. Importation of spare
parts would also raise the problems of procurement, storage, distribution,
and communication between DME's repair depots. To assist in this matter a
consultant would be required.
Consulting Services
4.        The consultant would:
(a)  Assist in the procurement of spare parts,
and advise on proper storage and distribution
programs.
(b)  Assist If1PH in developing an inventory system
allowing for a running account of all earth
moving machinery in the country to constantly
determine the adequacy of machinery resources
within the island in relation to Government's
construction program.



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 2
(c) Advise MIPH on the deployment of irrigation
machinery and on systems assisting in their
regular maintenance and repair.
(d) Review the system of rate charges for hiring
of DME machinery to other Government umits and
advise on any changes considered necessary.
(e) Survey repair and maintenance facilities operated
by DME and, in cooperation with consuLtants
assigned to the Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation,
devise an improved program of repair and main-
tenance for all Government owned machinery and
equipment. This survey would include advise on
establishment of new facilities, equipment
requirements, staff and training needs.
(f) Generally assist DME and MIPH on all aspects
concerned with improved opeiration and maintenance
of DM'Es construction fleet and in particular assist
MIPH's in aspects related to the implementation of the
proposed Mahaweli Ganges II and Irrigation Rehabilita-
tion projects.
Organization of Services, Time Schedules and Reports
5.        The consultant would be engaged by MIPH subject to his qualifica-
tion being acceptable to the Association. He should be an experienced
construction engineer with previous experience in similar assignments. He
would be engaged for a period of two years and would work directly with the
Director of DME. He would be supported in his task by staff of DME and would
liaise closely with the consultants provided under the Project to the Sri
Lanka Tractor Corporation in all aspects affecting improvement in government
machinery, tractor and equipment repair and maintenance service.
6.        The consultant would report: to the Minister MIPH through the
Director of DME with copies to the Association.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TREE CROP SECTOR
I. Introduction
1.        The importance of the traditional export crops lies not only in
the fact that in the foreseeable future any substantial increase in foreign
exchange earnings will have to come from these products but also in that a
staguation in their exports permeates the whole economy. The three crops
account for 75-90% of export earnings, about 45% of agricultural employment,
about 40% of the value added in the agricultural sector; and, in addition,
make a substantial contribution to government revenues (about 16% based
on provisional 1974 figures) 1/.
Structure of Industry
2.        The tea industry is characterized by the predominance of estates.
In 1971 holdings of 500 ac and more accounted for 48% of tea land but ac-
counted for only 2.6% of the total number of tea holdings (Table 1). The
first Land Reform of 1972-74 did not affect either the Sterling or Rupee
compauy estates which together make up 54% of tea land. Some of the tea
land then taken over by the Land Reform is managed by such organizations
as the State Plantation Corporation. In October 1975 Sterling and Rupee
estates were nationalized but is is GOSL's intention to continue to operate
them on an estate basis.
3.        The rubber industry is not as strongly dominated by the estate
sector. In 1973 there were more than 150,000 smallholdings of less than
10 ac accounting for 32% of the total acreage in rubber (Table 2). These
smallholdings average only 1.4 ac in size. In addition, there were about
6,300 holdings with 10-100 ac accounting for 24% of the total rubber acreage
and averaging 25 ac in size and 790 holdings over 100 ac accounting for 44%
of the total rubber acreage, the latter have now been nationalized.
1/   For a comprehensive analysis of the tree crop-sector see "Agriculture
Sector Survey"--Report No. PA 134a, February, 1973, Volume III, which
was updated in the "Agricultural Policy and Program Review"--Report
No. 579a CE, February, 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Table 1:  OWNERSHIP OF TEA LAND 1971
FPer Cent
Sterling Company Estates /a       28.8
Rupee       "        "    /a      25.6
Privately owned estates lb        27.2
Government estates                  .7
Smallholdings (less than
10 ac.)                        17.7
100.0
/a   Nationalized in October 1975.
lb   Subject to Land Reform.
Source: Ministry o:E Plantation Industries.
Table 2: NUMBER AND AREA OF RUBBER HOLDINGS BY SIZE CLASSES, 1973
Size Class                     Holdings                   Area of Holdings
Acres                  Number        Percent           Acres       Percent
1 - 10                 152,343        95.6             214,489      32.7
10 - 100                  6,282         3.9             154,578      23.6
100 - 500                    617          .4             136,142      20.8
Over  500                     171         .1             150,711      22.9
Total               159,413       100.0             655.920    100.0
Source: Rubber Controller's Department.
4.        Coconut, on the other hand, is mainly a smallholder crop with
holdings under 5 ac accounting for 35% of the total acreage. Holdings of less
than 5 ac produce almost entirely for home consumption. The bulk of
marketed domestic and export supplies comes i-rom about 37,000 holdings
averaging about 23 ac in size and covering 65% of the coconut land.
Government Institutions
5.        The Ministry of Plantation IndustriLes (MPI) has responsibility for
overall planning and for promoting marketing of tea, rubber, coconut and
minor export crops. Administration of research, extension and the operation
of the various subsidy programs is carried out by the Tea Control Department,
the Rubber Control Department, the Coconut Development Authority, and the
Minor Exports Crops Department. Ihe Coconut Development Authority is semi-
autonomous and operates the following Boards: Cultivation (planting and



ANNEX 6
Page 3
extension), Processing, Marketing and Research. MPI also supervises several
Boards and Corporations such as the State Plantation Corporation, State Rubber
Manufacturing Corporation, Ceylon Tea Propaganda Board, Sri Lanka Cashew
Corporation, and the Agricultural Diversification Project.
6.        Production has been on tlhe decline and neithler production targets
nor replanting targets have been met (Annex 1). The latter has serious
consequences for the future of the industry and dire implications for
employment, export earnings and Government budget. The Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL) has taken action to stimulate the industry. These are discussed
in Section II. Parallel to this, GOSL has plans for the diversification of
large areas out of tea and rubber. This program foresees diversification
of around 200,000 ac of tea and 180,000 of rubber land, appr6ximately one
third of total land under these crops. GOSL, with the support of UNDP/FAO,
has already started with project development planning. It is operating a
pilot diversification scheme on about 16,000 ac and, with the support of
UNDP/FAO, is formulating a diversification project to cover some 75,000
ac in the Kandy region. This land, largely under tea, is to be developed
under food crops, tree crops other than tea, pasture and forest. Bank
Group support for this project has been sought by GOSL and is scheduled
for FY77.
II. Constraints and Credit Components
A.   Investment Climate, Margins. Subsidies and Taxation
7.        Investment Climate.  In the past, the absence of secure tenure
did not encourage the private estates to step up the pace of restructuring
the industry and hence, placing Sri Lanka on a firm competitive footing
vis-a-vis other producing countries. The Land Reform Law of 1972 has been
discussed at considerable length in the 'Agricultural Policy and Program
Review'. Since then, Government introduced legislation for the nationali-
zation of all publicly owned estate land and, in October 1975, took over
Sterling and Rupee estates thereby eliminating one of the main administrative
constraints to estate planning and development. Future management responsi-
bility for the estates has not yet been decided, but is is the intention of
Government to maintain the estate character of the units taken over.
8.        Margins, Subsidies, and Taxation.  The 1971 sector survey 1/ dwelt
at some length on the problems of excessive taxation of estates and its
impact upon reinvestment and the general liquidity of estates. Sri Lanka
has little or no influence on the price for tea, rubber and coconut products,
which are determined on the world market. However, the web of supports,
subsidies, controls and taxation, considerably affect the returns to the
11 Agricultural Sector Survey - The Republic of Sri Lanka Volume III
(Annex 3) - Report No. PA 134a.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
producer. Cost of production has been rising rapidly with a result that
at the end of 1972 and early 1973 tea and rubber plantations were in a
deep financial crisis.
9.        Tea.  There is a frequent misconceptLon, both in Sri Lanka and
elsewhere, that the tea industry is heavily subsidized. Nothing is further
from the truth. The subsidies and rebates paid to the tea industry are
directly borne by the industry itself in the form of cesses and duties. In
fact, there is a substantial surplus which is syphoned off by the Exchequer.
10.       It is this heavy impost of duties which distinguishes Sri Lanka's
tea industry from that of her competitors in India and Kenya, who enjoy a
relatively sheltered tax structure. A comparison of the duties and taxes
(excluding income tax) in Kenya and India with that of Sri Lanka is most
revealing; despite the limitations of such a comparison, it gives a rough
guide to the larger margins availabLe to the producer in the two former
countries.
1970 fob peice lb   Duties/taxes/lb  (2) as percent
(1)                  (2)            of (1)
Sri Lanka (all teas)           41.8 US cts       8.7 US cts           20.8
India (all teas)               42.0 U1S cts      4.9 US cts            11.7
Kenya (London Auction
teas only)                   45.1 US cts       0.28 US cts           0.6
Source: Tea Control Department.
11.       With the exception of 1974 and 1975, which saw a sharp increase
in the price of tea - not expected to persist in the long run 1/, - net
margins to the producer in Sri Lanka have been so small (Table 3) as to provide
little or no incentive to undertake long-term investment such as replanting
which is essential for the survival of the industry. In 1972, a survey of
the profitability of tea companies covered nearly 50% of the company-owned
estates representing 37% of the total tea production. The survey reflected
operation of units that have a higher productivity than the mean. The
survey revealed that:
(a) 40% of the company-owned estates ran at a loss in 1972.
This loss is a trading loss sustained by the estates in
the production and market:ing of tea.
1/   Commodities and Export Projections Division, Economic Analysis and
Projections Department - Development Policy Staff.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(b) 10% of the company-owned estates in 1972 made only meagre
profits of not more 5 cts a lb of made tea.
(c) The losses have been highest in the Medium Grown
followed by High Grown and the least in the Low
Grown, the three elevational categories for tea.
(d) There was a gradual drop in tea replanting and a steep
fall in the programs for factory modernization and
electrification.
(e) There is a total absence of flow of new capital into the
industry and hardly any capital formation within the
industry itself in the form of reserves,
Table 3: Tea: Revenues to Producers and State
1971     1972      1973     1974
-- Rs/lb  --
Gross Cost of Production       1.80      1.91     2.03      2.40
less rebates and subsidies    .12        .08      .12       .22
Net Cost of Production         1.68      1.83     1.91      2.18
Net Sale Average               1.81      1.89     1.89      2.65
Profit to Producer               .13      .06     -.02       .47
Gross Revenue to State          .62       .59      .57       .85
less rebates and subsidies    .12        .08      .12       .22
Net Revenue to State            .50       .51       .45      .63
/a   The average margin figures conceal wide variations from estate
to estate and, in particular, between the three elevational
categories of tea--High Grown, Medium Grown and Low Grown.
Source; Tea Control Department.
12.       Rubber.  There is no need to belabor the incidence of heavy taxa-
tion and low margins on rubber, as well as on tea. Suffice it to say that
the situation has been very similar.
13.       Coconut.  Margins on coconut have fluctuated widely in recent
years. As in the case of tea and rubber, GOSL imposes an export duty
on all exports of copra, coconut oil, desiccated coconut and fresh coconut.
This duty, in the form of a sliding scale, is based on the average London
price cif of Philippines copra. The problem of taxation is not as serious
for the coconut sector as with tea and rubber.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Government Action
14.       In October 1973, as a result of falling margins in tea, GOSL in-
troduced the Package Deal for the tea industry. The financial assistance
under the Package is channelled to the industry through:
(a) a 50% subsidy on fertiliz:er cost to all tea producers;
(b) approximately 55% subsidy on tea chests;
(c) an increase in replanting subsidy from Rs 3750/ac to
Rs 4750/ac.
15.       The Package Deal was to assure producers a margin of about 22-25
cents/lb above production cost, but in early 1974 it appeared that the relief
was being swallowed up by cost increases. The other major subsidy is the tea
and rubber factory rehabilitation schemes (para 30). In June 1975, GOSL
recognized that the overall situation had become so acute that taxation was
reduced on both rubber and coconut products.
Project Support
16.       Under the Project provision would be made for a study group to be
set up to examine the effects of subsidies and taxation on production, export
earnings and Government revenues. In addition, the study would examine the
condition of estate workers with particular reference to housing and nutri-
tion.  Broad terms of reference are given in Appendix 1.  Funds would be made
available for the recruitment for six to eight man months of one expert, with
provision for possible support by a further expert, with qualifications
acceptable to the Association to assist in t'he study.  It would be a con-
dition of disbursement against support to the tree crop sector that this
study commence not later than six months after the date of signing of the
Project Agreement.
B.   On-Estate Transport for Tea and Rubber Estates and Bought-Leaf Factories
17.       Tea and Rubber.  Shortage of foreign exchange has led to a virtual
halt to the import of new vehicles and whatever new transport does become
available is allocated to sectors other than estates. As a result, trans-
port on estates and for bought-leaf factories is inadequate and for the
most part obsolete. Vehicles break down with alarming frequency, resulting
in undue delays in processing and consequent deterioration of green leaf,
detrimental to quality or, in some cases, forced postponement in plucking 1/
which also results in deterioration of quality. The shortage of reliable
vehicles means therefore that the full benefit from given production of
1/   The State Plantation Corporation reported many instances when pluck-
ing was delayed for lack of transport. This, of course, also adds
to unemployment of estate workers and exacerbates their already
wretched condition.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
green leaf is not derived.  This situation will continue to deteriorate as
yet further vehicles become inoperative.  The inadequacy in numbers of
vehicles has been compounded by the land reform, where many estates were
split with the available transport being assigned to either the new or old
owner, thus leaving the other owner without transport.
18.       Cost of operation and maintenance of these old vehicles (many
of which are petrol and not diesel) is prohibitive. Shortage of estate
transport has also forced factories to switch from solid fuel to liquid
fuel resulting in a considerable increase in the cost of production--as
well as using valuable foreign exchange (para 43).
19.       Again, similar to the tea industry, rubber estates have been
starved of any means of on-estate transport. However, the timing of latex
collection is not as crucial as tea, although coagulation takes place with
lengthy delay.
20.       Government Scheme to Alleviate Shortage.  In July 1974, the Cabi-
net agreed that a foreign exchange allocation, of Rs 5 M equivalent, be set
aside for the importation of estate vehicles. Under the scheme, vehicles
would be provided for 1/ (a) on-estate transport--120 tractors/lorries;
(b) bought-leaf factories--15 lorries; and (c) the Coconut Cultivation
Board --15 tractors/lorries. However, the resolution has, as yet, not been
implemented. To assess vehicle requirements in connection with the scheme,
MPI invited application for vehicles purchases from estates. 418 estates
participated. These owned 815 vehicles, 47% over 10 years old, and requested
512 lorries or tractors. The participating estates represented about 75%
of both the total number of vehicles owned and requirements of the industry,
indicating a total demand of some 680 transport units and an estate vehicle
population of some 1100 units.
21.       Bought-Leaf Factories.  Smallholders have to rely on bought-leaf
factories to purchase and process their green-leaf. Of the 816 registered
tea factories in operation in 1973, over half manufactured only their
own leaf (78.5% of the total tea manufactured). 19.3% of the total tea
manufactured was made from bought-leaf and the remainder was manufactured
by factories on behalf of other estates. Green leaf supply to bought-leaf
factories tends to be widely scattered and frequently distant from the
factory. Yet bought-leaf factory transport is particularly insufficient in
quantity and quality and does not permit green-leaf collection on a system-
atized basis.
1/   On basis of cif cost unit cost for tractors at US$5,000 and 2-ton
payload lorries C.K.D. at US$5,400 and assuming that on the tea
and rubber estates 50% would be tractors and 50% lorries, the sum
allocated would be sufficient to import about 145-150 vehicles.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Table 4: REGISTRATION OF TEA FACTORIES
Manufacturer              No. of Factories
Confined to own leaf                          429
Own leaf and up to 50% of total
production out of bought-leaf                177
Own leaf and more than 50% of total
production out of bought-leaf               147
Confined to bought-leaf                         63
818
Source: Administrative Iteport of the Tea Controller
for 1973.
22.       Transport needs for bought-leaf factories is estimated as follows:
in 1973, 90 M lbs of made tea were manufactured out of bought-leaf 1/, equiv-
alent to about 405 M lbs of green-leaf. A lorry can collect about 100 sacks
of green leaf, averaging 37 lbs. Thus, 110,000 vehicle trips per annum were
required to collect the bought-leaf. Assuming that a lorry operates 320
days/year at 3 trips per day, vehicle requirement would be 115. During
peak production, total vehicle requirements would increase.
23.       Coconut Estates.  Requirements for on-estate transport in the
coconut sector are limited as coconlut is essentially a smallholder crop.
Nevertheless the few existing estates and large co-operative have the same
problems of transport shortages as do tea and rubber estates. The sector
has additional transport and farm power requirements resulting from GOSL
program of undercropping. The Coconut Cultivration Board intends to estab-
lish tractor pools for this purpose.
24.       On-estate Supervision Vehicles.  There are 312 tea estates over
500 ac a total area of 277,383 ac, and 171 rubber estates over 500 ac with
a total area of 150,710 ac. These, nearly 500 large units, are usually
managed by a Superintendent and one or two Assistant Superintendents who
are responsible for replanting, plucking, weeding, fertilizing, all under-
taken simultaneously in different parts of the estate. Loss of mobility
due to lack of transport reduces effective supervision and hence lowers
production standards. It is estimLated that at least 150 transport units--
motorcycles of 300 to 350 cc--would be required.
1/   Administrative Report of the Tea Controller for 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Project Support
25.       The limitation of IDA funds implies that total estimated capital
requirements cannot be met by the Project. Project support would therefore
be provided to cover only 70% of the estimated total requirements for new
transport. The balance would partly be met through the expected GOSL sup-
port for on-estate vehicles (para 20), and partly through maximum rehabili-
tation of existing vehicles (para 27). This would be sufficient to meet
minimum transport requirements. Should the GOSL support not materialize
transport would remain inadequate.
26.       In summary, the proposed transport provision would be met as follows:
Requirements (units)
Total
Additional on-estate transport requirements               680
-    Government scheme                                           120
-    The Project (70% of requirements)                           485
Bought-leaf factories, additional lorry requirements   115
-    Government scheme                                            15
-    The Project (70% of requirements)                            85
Coconut sector - additional tractor requirements           65
-    Government scheme                                            15
-    The Project (70% of requirements)                            45
27.       In addition to new vehicles, spare parts would be provided for
the rehabilitation of those vehicles which could be repaired economically.
As mentioned in para 20, 47% of the estimated 1100 on-estate vehicles
(520 vehicles) are over 10 years old and, for the most part, these cannot
be repaired economically. It is estimated that 20% of the vehicles under
10 years old (580 vehicles) could be repaired but are either non-operational
or semi-operational due to lack of spare parts. A sum of about US$600 per
"non-operational" vehicle should provide adequate spare parts for repair.
The total allocation of spare parts should also provide an adequate buffer
stock of running repairs for all estate vehicles for about one year. On
this basis requirements for spare parts for existing vehicles on tea and
rubber estates are estimated at US$60,000. In addition the Project would
provide for spare parts for transport of bought-leaf factories and the
coconut industry estimated at US$35,000. Assurances have been obtained
that GOSL w11 continue to provide foreign exchange for the maintenance
and proper replacement of the rehabilitated fleet.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
28.       The proposed support to the tea industry has to be seen against
GOSL's program of large scale diversification (see para 6). Rehabilitation
of estate and bought-leaf factory transport would not increase production
but would help maintain quality and quantity of output of the participating
estates. No vehicles would be allocated to factories processing leaf from
marginal areas or estates which are subject to diversification.
29.       Project support, excluding price contingencies, would consist
of:
(a) US$2.77 M for the importation of about 485 thirty-five
to forty HP (PTO) tractors and/or about 2 t payload lorries
for the tea and rubber estate sector including spare
parts to the tune of 10% of the cif value of tractors
and/or lorries.
(b) US$500,000 for the importation of 85 two-ton payload
lorries for the bought-leaf factories including
spare parts to the tune of 10% of the cif costs
of the lorries.
(c) US$250,000 for the importation of about 45 tractors
with 35-40 HP (PTO) for the coconut sector including spare
parts to the tune of 10% of the cif value of the tractor.
(d) US$95,000 for the importation of spare parts for the
existing transport fleet in the tree! crop sector.
(e) US$200,000 for the importation of about 150 motorcycles
of between 300 and 350 c.c.
C.   Processing
30.       Tea, rubber and coconut processing is in need of modernization.
For both tea and rubber, GOSL recognized this need and two tea factory
modernization projects, with ADB assistance, have been implemented.  A
similar, Government scheme, is under progress for rubber. The coconut
industry, on the other hand, has been neglected.
31.       The coconut processing industry is characterized by numerous small,
generally poorly equipped units 1/. There are at present approximately:
(a) 60 oil extraction mills, of which 10 have capacities
exceeding 10,000 tons per year; and two solvent
extraction plants, both now out of operation.
1/   For further description of the industry, see Annex 3, pp. 17-20 of
the Agricultural Sector Survey.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
(b) 80 desiccated coconut mills, of which only 68 are in
operation. Of these, two are owned by the Coconut
Processing Board, five are cooperatively owned and
61 are in private hands. The largest mills have a
throughput of about 8 tons per day.
(c) 300 coir mills, mostly very small private units all
suffering from problems of raw material supply.
32.       Characteristic of all mills is their lack of spare parts, largely
antiquated equipment and tight financial situation. Quality of the end-
product is necessarily affected and processing costs are high. In the long
run the entire industry will have to be rehabilitated but this should await
further clarification of the trend in raw nut production. What is immedi-
ately required is a minimum capital input to provide essential new equip-
ment and spare parts to keep factories going.
Project Support
33.       To help meet requirements of the coconut industry, the Project
would provide foreign exchange to meet the cif value of the following:
(a) Requirements common to all three Industries
Estimated   Estimated
Requirements Cost-US$'000
1. Camel Hair Belting
(different sizes)                 30,000 ft.      50
2.  V Belts (different sizes)            10,000 ft.      13
3. Roller and ball bearingb
(different sizes)                  1,000 units    8
4. Electric motors and starter
switches (30 h.p. - 1 h.p.)          200 units  110
(b) Requirements for the Desiccated Coconut Industry
5.  Felt for desiccator doors 1/4" thick 1,000 lbs.       6
6.  Sirocco cement                            75 cwts.    3
7.  Fire clay                                500  "
8.  Bag Stitching machines                    20 units)  16
9.  Needles for above                      1,000  "   )
(c) Requirements for the Coconut Oil Milling Industry
The machinery is mainly of the Andersen and
Rosedown makes.
10. Expeller spares (e.g. oil seals, bars
worms, etc.                                       65
11. Filter cloth                         25,000 yds.    36



ANNEX 6
Page 12
(d) Requirements for the Fibre Industry
12. Baling press spares (John Shaw,
Lindeman and other makes)                         80
13. Twisting machine spares (Fehrer)                     47
14. Twine making machine spares                          16
450
D.   Extension Services
34.       The almost total lack of mobilization for extension staff in the
three sub-sectors is severely hampering Government efforts to assist
smallholder production.
(a) 16 field supervisors and 87 extension officers carry
out tea and rubber extension work and assist small-
holders. These officers also organize green leaf
collecting centers. However, their main function
is the administration of various subsidy programs
The inspection for the subsidy programs takes priority
and extension services to smallholders has been
neglected. Lack of transport also severely hampers
the work of senior staff in the Tea and Rubber Control
Department.
(b) The Coconut Cultivation Board has 81 extension officers,
shortly to be increased to 89). A major task of these
officers is encouragemerLt of undercropping and replanting.
Without transport, this cannot be done. About 25 officers
own old motorcycles in need of replacement, others use
public transport.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
(c) 20 inspectors are employed by the Coconut Processing
Board shortly to be increased to 23. Their duties
include the inspection of the desiccated coconut
factories and quality control of desiccated coconut
exports. These officers currently have virtually no
transport thus reducing their effectiveness and ultimately
effecting employment and foreign exchange earnings. 1/
Project Support
35.       Project support would consist of financing cif costs of:
(a) US$40,000 for the importation of about 50 motorcycles
for tea and rubber extension including 10% for spare
parts
(b) US$65,000 for the importation of about 80 motorcycles
to the Coconut Cultivation Board extension staff
including 10% for spare parts
(c) US$15,000 for the importation of about 15 motorcycles
to the Coconut Processing Board staff including 10%
for spare parts
if   For example, the 80 desiccated coconut mills are divided into 15 cir-
cuits of about 6 mills each. The inspector in charge of each circuit
is expected to visit the mills in his circuit daily. The average
mileage covered by each inspector per day would be 40-50 miles. Duties
include the inspection of the general condition of the mill, the
collection of the daily returns regarding manufacture of products from
the mills and sending them daily to the Board together with his own
summary of the circuit covered. The miller is not permitted to dispatch
his production to the shippers until samples have been collected by
the inspector. If the inspector fails to visit the mill, the mill has
no option but to store the desiccated coconut until it is sampled by an
officer of the Coconut Processing Board. The daily visit of inspectors
ensures that the regulations of the Board concerning the hygienic manu-
facture of desiccated coconut are followed. The compliance by the mills
of these regulations is ensured by the issue of serially numbered labels
which the miller must affix to each bag of desiccated coconut. Without
these labels, no desiccated coconut can be exported. The export of
desiccated coconut is controlled by licenses issued by the Coconut Mar-
keting Board with whom the Coconut Processing Board works in close con-
junction. Thus, the maintenance of the field inspectorate is vital to
the maintenance of high standards of cleanliness and quality of the
desiccated coconut.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
(d) US$25,000 for the importation of about 5 vehicles
to the Tea and Rubber Control Department to alleviate
the shortage of supervision vehicles including 10%
for spare parts
(e) US$30,000 for the importation of about 6 vehicles
to the Coconut Development Authority for allocation
between the CCB and CPB including 10% for spare parts



ANNEX 6
Page 15
TABLE 5: SUMMARY OF PROJECT SUPPCRT TO TRE& CROP SECTOR
Rounded-
Unit Cost Estimated Total Cost
US$      Number     US$'000
A. Incentive Study                                    -          -          50-
B. Lorries & Tractors for                              3/
Tea and Rubber Estates                        5,200-      485        2,7754
C.  Lorries for Bought Leaf Factories             5,400        85          5004o/
D.  Tractors for Coconut Estates                  5,000         45         250/
E.  Spares for acisting Vehicles                      -          -          95
F. Motorcycles for Estate supervision             1,250        150         2004,
(300-350 cc)
G.  Spares for Coconut Processing Industry            -          -         450
H.  Ektension Vehicles                                 Sub-total         4,320
(a)  Motorcycles for Tea and
Rubber Extension - 175 cc                  750        50           40
(b) Motorcycles for CCB
Extension - 175 cc                         750        80          654
(c)  Motorcycles for CPB
Extension - 175 cc                         750        15           154/
(d)  Vehicles for Tea & fRubber
Control Dept.                           4,500          5           254/
(e) Vehicles for Coconutc/
Development Authority2-                  4,500         6           3__
Sub-total          175
CGrand Total     4,495
1/ Under the Project it is intended to provide financial allocations for
specific categories rather than specify exactly the number of each item to
be imported. The rounded total cost is however based on unit costs and
the est-imated numbers but excludes contingencies.
2/  Technical assistance for 2 persons for 6 months each.
3/ On basis of c.i.f. unit cost for tractors at Us$ 5,000 and 2-ton payload
lorries C.K.D. at US$ 5,400 and assuming that on the tea and rubber estates
50% would be tractors and 50% lorries.
4/  Includes 100 for spares.
5/  To be allocated between the CCB and the CPB.



ANNEX 6
Page 16
III. Method of Allocation of Project Components
1.  Allocation of Vehicles to Private Sector
36.       Tractors and lorries to be procured under the Project would be
purchased on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) bearing
in mind buyers preferences resulting from estate owned and outside repair
facilities. The total number of different types of tractors and trucks
would not exceed 4 each. Details of the method of procurement which would
be handled by the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) are given in Annex
13. The establishment of priorities amongst estates and bought-leaf
factories would be determined on technical and financial grounds by a
technical sub-committee in the MPI represented inter alia by:
(a) Ministry of Plantation Industries
(b) Project Co-ordinating Committee
(c) Tea and Rubber Control Departments
(d) Coconut Development Authority.
The MPI technical sub-committee would report to the PCC (see Chapter 6 of
the main report) who would approve the selection criteria and the final
selection. The PCC would aggregate the orders received according to
first vehicle choice using the estate priorities established by the
MPI sub-Committee. The sub-committee would be responsible for over-
seeing the physical distribution of vehicles.,
37.       Tea and Rubber Estates and Bought-Leaf Factories.  It is pro-
posed to invite applications for all Tea and Rubber Estates and bought-
leaf 3ctories for vehicles and motorcycles.  The procedure recently
used in connection with a Government Scheme (para 20) would be followed.
The applications would be processed by the sub-Committee on the advise
of the Tea and Rubber Control Department.  Priorities would be determined
after considering various criteria, including:
(a) Acreage, yield and terrain of the estate for which the
vehicle is applied.
(b)  Present strength of the fleet of vehicles available for
transport of green-leaf and supervision purposes.
(c) The extent to which the estate has participated in the
development schemes sponsored by the Government.
(d) Distance over which the green-leaf has to be transported
for manufacture.



ANNEX 6
Page 17
(e) Number of supervisors in the estate.
(f) Anticipated yield and the future development programs
of the estate.
(g) Financial arrangements for the purchase of the
vehicles.
It would be a condition of allocation that the estate would use the vehicle
for the purposes for which it is allocated and would not sell or otherwise
dispose of it within a period of 10 years, except to Government.
38.       Coconut.  The procedure outlined in paras 36 and 37 would be fol-
lowed with appropriate modification of the selection criteria. However the
sub-committee would be advised by the Coconut Development Authority acting
through the Coconut Cultivation Board. The 45 tractors for the coconut
sector would be allocated as follows:
(a) to multipurpose cooperatives of at least 10 years'
standing after the commercial viability of the cooperative
has been attested to by the Commission of Cooperative
Development 1/;
(b) to the State Planatation Corporation;
(c) to private estates which are public companies and hence
were not affected by the Land Reform Commission.
2.   Allocating Vehicle Spares to the Private Sector
39.       The PCC would request the sub-Committee to assess the requirement
of spares with the assistance of the SLTC and local agents. The sub-Com-
mittee; would report back to the PCC who would approve the list of require-
ments. The PCC would then advise the SLTC and the appropriate local agents,
who would place the orders. The sub-Committee would act largely through the
Tea and Rubber Control Department or the Coconut Development Authority, but
responsibility would lie with the sub-Committee who would supervise the
physical allocation of spares.
1/  1.15,000 ac of coconut land was taken over by the Land Reform Commis-
sion. About 24,000 ac was allocated to multi-purpose or other
corporations. Most are long established and are well managed; however,
they were set up as consumer cooperatives and production, on the
estates taken over by the cooperatives, is hampered by lack of tractors
for on-estate transport, weeding, undercropping and irrigated paddy
cultivation.



ANNEX 6
Page 18
3.   Allocation of Motorcycles to the Extension Staff of the Tea and
Rubber Control Departments;
40.       It is proposed to allocate about 50 motorcycles for the Tea and
Rubber Control Department's extension staff and 150 motorcycles to the
private sector (paras 29 and 35). At the time of the actual allocation,
it may become necessary to vary the distribution between these two sectors
depending on the demand and priorities.
(a) Method of Allocation of Motorcycles
Applications would be called for Lrom the extension staff
for the allocation of motorcycles and the sub-Committee
would process the applications ancd decide on priorities.
They would be approved by the PCC. Among the criteria that
would be taken into consideration are:
(i)  Extent and terrain of the area in which the extension
officer operates.
(ii) The nature and scope of the work assigned to him.
(iii) Vehicle, if any, presently owned by the officer and
its roadworthy condition.
(iv) The ability of the officer to supplement the gov-
ernment loan wherever necessary.
Cv) the service record of the officer.
(b) Method of Financing the Purchase of the Motorcycles
The motorcycles to the Tea and Rubber Control Departments'
extension staff would be sold to them outright with the
condition that they camnot sell or otherwise dispose of
it within a period of 10 years. If they do not need this
vehicle during the stipulated period, for example if they
resign, they would be requested to sell it to the
Government.
At present a loan of only Rs. 3,500 can be given to any
officer of the Government of Sri Lanka for the purchase
of a motorcycle. This loan is recoverable in 36 monthly
installments and carries an interest rate of 10%. As
a motorcycle imported under the project would cost around
Rs 12,000, the Government will consider making an
exception by granting an enhanced :Loan to Tea and
Rubber extension officers to cover a substantial portion
of the cost of a motorcycle.



ANNEX 6
Page 19
4.   Allocation of Vehicles to the Coconut Development Authority and of
Motorcycles to the Extension Staff of the CCB and CPB
41.  (a)  Motor Vehicles for CDA
The responsibility for the allocation of vehicles
provided to the CCB and CPB would lie with the
Coconut Development Authority.
(b) Motorcycles for Coconut Cultivation Board Extension Officers
It is proposed to provide 80 motorcycles under the project
for CCB extension officers. Being an autonomous body,
the terms and conditions differ from those covered by
Government policy. The method of allocation would be
the same as para 40(i). Details of finance and
operation are given in Appendix 5.
(c) Motorcycles for Coconut Processing Board Extension Officers
It is proposed to provide 15 motorcycles to CPB extension
staff. Currently CPB own 20 motorbikes--of which 15 are
over 20 years old. CPB has, in the past, not had a policy
of selling motorbikes to extension staff. However, it is
proposed that the 15 motorbikes provided under the project
would be sold to the extension staff. The old motorcycles
should be repaired, where economically possible, and sold
to the existing staff; the remainder should be auctioned
off.
5.   Allocation of Spares to the Coconut Processing Board
42.       It is proposed that the Coconut Processing Board (CPB) import the
required spares and establish a sales organization for sale to millers.
Importation would be through the State Trading Corporation and the CPB
would be required to establish adequate storage facilities. Allocation
would be the responsibility of the CPB, which would act under the guidance
of the sub-Committee. Allocation criteria and action by the CPB would
require the approval of the PCC.
IV. Benefits
43.       Assistance to the tea and rubber industries would not increase
production of green-leaf or rubber latex. In the case of tea it would
streamline the processing of tea from the time of plucking and would thus
increase quality and maximize the benefit from current output. Benefits
would thus be similar to those expected from a processing project. In



ANNEX 6
Page 20
addition, improved transport would directly affect production cost.
With new transport vehicles, operating and maintenance costs would be reduced,
hence reducing the cost of production. Moreover, due to lack of transport
many estates have recently had to switch from solid fuel (wood) to liquid
fuel to fire the driers. 1/ Tabla 6 provides a breakdown of production costs
per lb. of made tea for two estates, one using solid fuel and the other
liquid. There are several differences in cost between the two estates;
however, the most striking is in the cost of fuel for drier is about 17 cents/lb.
or about 7% on the total cost of -)roduction. Moreover, use of liquid fuel
requires scarce foreign exchange. Tea alone provides one-third of the
jobs in agriculture while tree crops in total provide 44% of the jobs in
agriculture. Employment is one o:E the primary objectives of Government and
further declines in production wiLl lead both to loss in employment and,
through reduced margins, to lower expenditures on estate housing and welfare.
44.       The benefit to smallholders by providing transport for bought-
leaf factories would be substantial although not possible to quantify.
However, a systematized green-leaf collection system would increase small-
holders' income and would significantly increase the quality of tea.
45.       In the coconut processing industries the installed capacity is
adequate to process raw material available, provided the facilities are
operational. Support under the Project for the processing industries would
be restricted to the maintenance of equipment rather than renovation to
prevent any further decline in processing capacity.
1/   In the long run there will be a shortage of fuelwood unless Government
and estates commence a program of reforestation with quick growing
species. There is a considerable extent of wastelands and gullies on
estates, that would be suitalble for planting with such species and
several estates have already started. However, efforts should be
stepped up.



ANNEX 6
Page 21
TA'RL  6: ANALYSIS OW ESTATE FXFrTDITTTTRR
Estate Using Solid Fael    Estate Using Liquid Fuel
Esti-                       Esti-
Jan     Jan/Feb   mate      Jan     Jan/Feb   mate
1975      1975    1975      1975      1975    1975
---  Rs cents/lb  ---       ---  Rs cents/lb  ---
General Charges                  62o73    62.87    59.80      77.04   85.32    70,96
Field Works and Cultivation-    89.83    80.90    65.61       69.44   50.57    78.69
Production
Plucking                       47.34    48.32    44.00      48.69   53.69 1  54 97
Teaf Transport                  2o10     2.01     1.50       3.20    3.55      3.14
Factory Upkeep                   .35       .34      .67      3.23    2.14      1.26
Machinery Upkeep                 o56       .56     2.56      2.31    2.20      2.07  1
Factory Staff                   2.35     2.46      2.13      3.25    3.60      3.09  i
Factory Labor                   5.75     5.79      5.22      6.70    7.55      5.61  14
Power                           2.67     2.89      2.54      3.72    3.90      4.51
Fuel for Driers                /13097   /                  /19W79  /20.49  /11.021
Factory Sandries                          Te9        14 1h24    1.22 T.0
Chests                         31.65    26.73    310o6      32.32   29.79    29.03
Delivery                        1.40       .88     3.12      1.37      .90     3.89
Total                     97,29  i 93.56    96.95    125,52  129.03   119.39
GRAND TOTAL                    249.85  i237.33   222.36    272.00  264.92   269.04
1/ Difference in cost per lb mainly accounted for by higher salaries and
allowances in estate using liquid fuel.
2/ Difference in cost per lb mainly accounted for by hi-her fertilizer costs
in estate using solid fuel.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
SP I LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE OF CONSULTANT FOR TREE CROP INCENTIVE STUDY
1.        The purpose of the Consultant Services would be to conduct a study
of the tree crop sector, focusing primarily on tea and rubber, aimed at
providing GOSL with a policy framework to enable Government to use re-
sources economically and to examine the tradle off between production and
export earnings on the one hand and Government Revenues (taxation, subsidies)
on the other. In addition the study would examine the condition of estate
workers with particular reference to housing and nutrition.
Scope of Consulting Services
A.   General
2.        Many parts of Sri Lanka are better suited to tree crop as compared
to food crop production yet production of tree crops has been on the decline
and neither Government production targets nor replanting targets have been
met. The latter has serious consequences for the future of the industry and
dire implications for employment, export earnings and Government budget.
On balance, the tea and rubber industries are heavily taxed but, at the same
time, are subject to a web of supports, subsidies and controls.
B.   Consulting Services
3.        The consultant would:
(a) In consultation with Governmemt, draw up detailed terms
of reference. These should be submitted to the Association
for approval within four weeks of taking up duties in,
Sri Lanka.
(b) Collect and analyze background information for the past
decade, including a survey of proclucer prices; inputs,
taxation, subsidies, world market prices, margins,
export earnings, and government revenues from tree
crop products.
(c)  Examine the response of production and replanting to
margins, increased taxation or subsidies, inputs, weather
and, if possible, the investment climate to determine
which factors are predominant in making investment decisions.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
(d) With the support of the local staff, analyze the short and
long run implications of different tax/subsidy rates, and
replanting rates on employment, the budget and foreign
exchange earnings.
(e) Using the available data, study the conditions of estate
workers with particular reference to housing and nutrition
and make recommendations how these could be improved.
Additional basic data may have to be collected.
(f) Prepare a comprehensive report outlining the various policy
measures open to GOSL and quantifying the benefits and
costs of the alternatives open to GOSL in terms of short
and long run effects on employment, the budget, comparative
reserve allocation, and foreign exchange earnings and make
recommendations.
C.   Organization of Services, Time Schedules and Reports
4.        The services requested would be carried out by an economist or
agricultural economist over an 8-month period. After drawing up terms of
reference, the consultant would recommend whether additional expert services
would be required to assist in the housing, and nutrition study (para 3(e)).
This would be decided by the Association in conjunction with GOSL, but total
consulting services would not exceed one year.
5.        The consultant, who should have qualifications acceptable to IDA,
would be recruited internationally by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in
consultation with the Ministry of Plantation Industries on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association. He should have relevant experience in carryipg
out economic assessment of agricultural production and should have a fair
knowledge of the fiscal implications of various policy measures.
6.        He would work with the Ministry of Plantation Industries (in parti-
cular the Tea and Rubber Control Department), the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and the Price Commission. GOSL would provide necessary services
as required for the execution of the study.
7.        He would submit a draft report for comments to GOSL and the
Association not later than six months after appointment or 4-1/2 months after
approval of his Terms of Reference whichever is earlier, unless agreed other-
wise by the Association. He would discuss his draft report with QOSL and
would incorporate GOSL comments as far as possible. He would submit a final
report within 4 weeks of receipt of GOSL's comments.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR SALE OF MOTOR BICYCLES TO COCONUT
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORETY EXTENSION OFFICERS
1.  The motor bicycles will be imported by the agents and sold to the
Officers on the recommendation of the Coconut Cultivation Board.
2.   Only Coconut Developmeni: Officers will be eligible for the
purchase of motor bicycles.
3.   Officers who are unable to purchase vehicles with their own money
will be given a loan of Rs. 6,000 or the actual cost of the vehicle,
whichever is less.
4.   The interest on the loan will be 10% p.a.
5.   The repayment will be in approximately 7 years, in monthly instal-
ments of Rs. 75.as follows:
Approximate mileage for Range                        ..  400 miles
At the present mileage rate of Rs. 28
per mile, Rs 400 x .28                            ..  112.00
Approximate subsistence rate at Rs 10
for every 100 miles                               ..   40.00
Total                                  ..  152.00
Cost of petrol at Rs 12/gal. assuming that
the motorcycle does 80 m.p.g., i.e.,
5 gals for 400 miles                              ..   60.00
Oil, wear & tear and depreciation                    ..   17.00
Balance                                *    75.00
At Rs. 75/month it will take 88 months or approximately 7 years
to repay the cost of vehicle and interest, assuming the vehicle
costs Rs 6,000.
6.   The officers should be able to provide a guarantor for the full
value of the loan or should have this money to his credit in his
Provident Fund, in which event a guarantor is unnecessary.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2
7.   The officer will not be allowed to sell the motorcycle for 10
years from date of purchase.
8.   In the event of an officer leaving the services of the Board
before the cost of the vehicle is recovered, the Coconut Cultiva-
tion Board will take back the vehicle and pay the officer the
oustanding payments on the loan, less depreciation, etc.
9.   Should an officer leave the Board's services after the completion
of the payment of the loan, he will be eligible to retain the
vehicle, and the condition of resale as stated at (7) above
will be withdrawn.
10.   The vehicle shall be comprehensively insured at the Officer's
expense to cover the value of the loan.
11.   The cost of fuel, services, repairs and replacements will be
borne by the Officer during the period of use.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SRI LAWKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TREE CROP RESEARCH
Introduction
1.        Tree crop research is the responsibility of the three tree crop
research institutes under the auspices of the Ministry of Plantation
Industries. The Tea Research Institute (TRI) was established in 1925 as
the main investigative and advisory body on broad aspects of the industry,
including cultural practices, costs of production, product quality,
economics, and market research. Tea Research is financed out of a cess on
tea exports of 1 cent/lb. This is not sufficient to meet research, capital
and operating expenses. In the spheres of plant breeding, physiology,
agronomy, soil chemistry, nematology, entomology, biochemistry, and
manufacturing technology, the work of the TRI has made valuable contributions
to the industry over the past 40 years or so.   The TRI renders technical
services and advice to the tea indiustry of Sri Lanka based on an extensive
program of field experimentation. This approach, while it gives the inform-
ation desired by the industry to -enhance its productivity, suffers from the
disadvantage that inadequate attenition has been paid to laboratory and
glasshouse investigations. The kniowledge gained through field experimenta-
tion is too empirical to provide an adequate foundation on which to build
up new knowledge regarding the behavior of the tea plant, which alone
can provide the background for further breakthroughs in agricultural re-
search. The field of economics and estate/farm management has been com-
pletely neglected, and this omiss:Lon should be rectified immediately in
order to assist progress in field management practices, manufacturing, and
the restructuring of the tea industry. TRI has therefore developed an ex-
panded program of work aiming at optimizing the economics of tea production
and processing, including laboratory research. To implement the program,
TRI requires foreign exchange for the provision of laboratory equipment and
transport, as well as limited technical assistance.
2.        The functions of the Rubber Research Institute (RRI) are similar
to those of TRI. Financing is also through a cess of 1 cent/lb on all exports
of rubber. Until about 1970 this cess was adequate to finance recurrent
and capital expenditures. Thereafter, the cess has been inadequate since
recurrent expenditures, increased from about Rs 3.4 M in 1970 to Rs 5.4 M
in 1974. The balance has been met: from reserves and Government grants. A
Committee set up to examine export: levies on rubber has recommended that
the Rubber Research cess be increased from 1 to 2 cents/lb., which would be



ANNEX 7
Page 2
sufficient to cover both capital and recurrent expenses. 1/ As with the
TRI, the RRI is oriented toward applied research; however, the RRI also
includes a Smallholdings Department which provides a technical advisory
service for growers owning less than 10 ac. The RRI was strengthened through
the establishment of an Economic Research and Extension Service Department.
This introduction of economic planning and surveillance capacity is unique
in agricultural research institutions in Sri Lanka. The Institute is well
staffed, with a wide program of research activities but suffers from the
common problem of lack of basic equipment and transport.
3.        The Coconut Research Institute (CRI), established in 1929, is
controlled by the Coconut Research Board. The activities of the Coconut
Research Board are financed partly by a grant received from Government for
the running of nurseries, the issue of subsidized seedlings ana partly by
cesses. Current research cesses, which are also used to finance research
within the Coconut Processing Board, are 35 cents/cwt on desiccated coconut,
37.5 cents/cwt on coconut oil, 25 cents/cwt on copra and Rs 1 per thousand
on fresh nuts. The estates run by the Coconut Research Board are more or
less self financed from the sale of produce. There are five research divi-
sions--a Biometrics Unit, an Advisory Division, Planting Division, Publica-
tions and Library Unit and an Administration Division. Each are small and
generally understaffed. In general, the quantum of research is quite in-
adequate to the needs of the industry and tends to be academic rather
than the applied. There is a total absence of any economic evaluation with-
in the Institute 2/ and it is undoubtly by far the weakest of the three tree
crop research institutes. Shortages of basic materials and equipment add
to the Institute's many problems. This, together with poor planning com-
petence, has probably contributed significantly to the inability of the
1/ Report and Recommendations of the Committee on the Export Levies on
Rubber - 21st March 1975.
2/   For example, the Institute's recommendation for a continuing application
of 9 lbs of fertilizer per palm which works out at over 1/4 of a ton
per ac (at 64 palms/ac), must seriously be doubted for mature palms.
The Agricultural Sector Report suggests an increase in nut production
as follows:
Year application          -    no increase
Year 2                    -    no increase
Year 3                    -    500 nuts/yr. increase
Year 4 onwards           -    800 nuts/yr. increase
At current prices the unsubsidized cost of this fertilizer would be
about Rs 400/ac, while nuts are selling for 180-250 per thousand.
Even with the 50% subsidy on fertilizers, it is hardly surprising
that smallholders have little use for fertilizer on palms.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Institute to retain senior staff. The main avenues to bring about increased
coconut production and smallholder income lie through: (a) improvement of
cultural standards through better extension services; (b) accelerated replanting
or underplanting with improved varieties; (c) greater use of fertilizer; and
(d) intercropping and undercropping. Yet no economic evaluation has been
attempted in undercropping or on finding an optimal undercrop mix; the
economic justification for the use of fertilizer remains to be proven at
today's prices, in particular on mature palms, and high yielding varieties
will not be available in sizable quantities until the 1980's.
Assistance to the Tree Crop Research Institutes
4.        Agreement in principle has been reached with GOSL and UNDP that
GOSL, IDA and UNDP would jointly provide financial assistance to the three
tree crop research units. UNDP and IDA assistance would broadly be in three
categories:
(a) laboratory equipment, material and chemicals
(b) technical assistance
(c) vehicles.
The agreement reached, foresees that UNDP woulf inance laboratory equipment.
research materials and chemicals as well as technical assistance and fellow-
ships while IDA would finance vehicles and limited equipment for the TRI and
CRI. Details of the proposed UNDP support are expected to be formulated by
early 1976.
5.        As part of its expanded work program aimed at optimizing the
economics of tea production and processing, the TRI has requested assistance
for finance and equipment for the following laboratories: radio-isotope,
flavor, pesticidal residue and electronic servicing (details in Appendix 1).
In addition to the electronic servicing laboratory which TRI proposes, it has
been suggested that a mobile service laboratory be set up. The servicing
laboratories would service eletronic instruments of all agricultural
research stations, including the RRI and CRI. Technical assistance would
be required to set up the service laboratory3 and to overcome the lack of
capability economic evaluation within TRI. The TRI supervises widely scattered
experiments on estates as well as providing advisory services based on the
results of research. The effectiveness of the Institute is severely hampered
by lack of transportation for research staff.
6.        As mentioned in Para 2, the work of the RRI is hampered by shortage
of basic equipment, materials and chemicals for ongoing programs. Moreover,
shortages of transport for the supervision of experiments and advisory services
to all classes of rubber growers (estates, medium size holdings and small-
holdings) means that the Institute is not as effective as it should be, given
staff capability. Further details of proposed support to the RRI are given
in Appendix 2.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
7.        As with the TRI and RRI, CRI has requested finance to overcome
the shortages of basic materials and transport. The CRI, has requested
technical assistance for at least one agricultural economist. Currently a
committee is examining coconut research in Sri Lanka and when the committee's
findings are known, it would be possible to pinpoint the areas where the
CRI should be strengthened. Further details are given in Appendix 3. The
possibility for the preparation of a smallholder coconut development project,
mainly in the Coconut Triangle, was discussed with UNDP, who agreed in
principle to finance the cost of the study/pre-investment project. Details
are given in Appendix 4.
8.        The requests should be taken as indicative of requirements and
have to be worked out in detail with GOSL and UNDP.  More detailed cost
estimates are given in Appendices 1-3.
TRI       RRI       CRI       Total
------US$.000- -          -  --   -
i) Laboratory equipment,
materials and chemicals          275 /a    150       140          565
ii) Technical assistance and
fellowships                   200 /b      -        160 /c      360
iii) Vehicles and equipment         100        60        70          230
Total               575        210       370       1,155
/a   Includes mobile laboratory.
/b   1 Agricultural Economist            - 2 Years
1 Electronics Expert               - 2 Years
/c   1 Agricultural Economist            - 2 Years
1 Unidentified                     - 2 Years
Of the total cost of US$1.155M UNDP contribution is expected to be US$925,00;
excluding price contingencies, IDA would provide US$230,000; whilst the
incremental local currency contributions by GOSL to the UNDP project support
is estimated at US$1.OM equivalent. Assistance to the three tree crop
research institutions would be a package program, hence disbursement of Project
funds to the Institutes for vehicles, would be conditional upon signature of a
relevant UNDP project agreement. The package program is for foreign exchange items
(and technical assistance) and assurances have been obtained that an adequate
local currency budget will be available for local cost capital items and for
operation and maintenance. For both tea and rubber research, research cesses
should be increased to adequately cover capital and recurrent expenses. This
recommendation has already been made in the case of rubber and research
cesses would be examined as part of the tree crop incentive study (Annex 6).



AtNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TEA RESEARCFE INSTITUTE
Laboratory and Minor Equipment
1.        The following requirements are based on a detailed project document
prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Plantation Industries by the Director
of the TRI.
(i) Radio Isotope Laboratory
2.   The cost of fertilizer in a pound of tea is about 17 to 20 cents
(out of a total C.O.P. of Rs 2.20). Of this, more than 50% goes into nitro-
genous fertilizers. TRI has found that 70-75% of the nitrogen is not accounted
for in the crop removed from the fields; hence, it has been lost by denitri-
fication, leaching or volatilization. Substantial amounts of phosphate and
potassium fertilizer are also recommlended but it has been found that tea
does not respond to higher levels of these fertilizers and these higher levels
can lead to a lowering of yields. It is believed that in acidic tea soils
most of the phosphate applied is rendered inactive or unavailable by combina-
tion with alluminum and iron in the soil. It should be possible to make
these immobilized phosphate reserves available to the plant if the mechanism
of immobilization were properly understood. This could lead to a substantial
reduction in the cost of fertilizers for the tea plant.
3.        The tea plant, although a hardy species, nevertheless suffers in
times of drought. In particular, the new VP teas appear to be more susceptible
to drought than the older seedling teas. It is not known with certainty
whether over the years the water retentive prolperties of the soil have been
affected by various cultural practices, e.g. erosion or washing-off of top
soil in pruned fields, weeding practices, etc. It appears desirable to in-
vestigate the water economy and water retention of the tea soil and the tea
plant.
4.        The Tea Research Institute has done a substantial amount of research
in the biochemical aspects of the tea plant. liowever, the equipment available
for such studies is insufficient anc needs to be augmented.
Estimated cost for equipment        US$65,000
(ii) Flavor Laboratory
5.        The price of tea fluctuates markedly from the so-called 'flavoring
season' to the off-season (sometimes from Rs 25/lb to Rs 4/lb). The dif-
ference in price is due to the presence of flavor components of only 0.017



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
percent at the height of the flavory season. Thus, the fortunes of the
tea industry are based on this minute fraction of elusive volatile aroma
constituents. A decade ago the tea taster's nose was the only means avail-
able for quality assessment. With the development of the chemistry of
flavor and the instrumentation for flavor studies, analysis of flavor
components has become a relatively easy operation and some 140 compounds
have been identified in the aroma component of tea. Considering the import-
ance of these compounds in determining the price level, inadequate attention
has been paid to the study of the mechanism of flavor development, the
variation of flavor components with methods of processing, fermentation times,
climatic factors, etc. Research in this field has been hampered by absence
of instruments such as sufficiently sensitive gas chromatographs and mass
spectrometers.
6.        Flavor houses have produced various synthetic tea flavors,
the successful development of which could prove a serious threat to Sri
Lanka itself since these could be used to supply the missing aroma components
in the plainer foreign teas. It is therefore essential that this area of
research and study of tea components be pursued actively. As part of the
program, it would be necessary to send a suitably qualified chemist to study
flavor analysis methods in the better known flavor houses in the U.K.,
U.S.A. and Europe costs for this component are shown in para (v).
Estimated cost for equipment        US$68,000
(iii) Pesticidal Residue Laboratory
7.        In order to prevent loss of crop, a wide variety of insecticidal
treatments and sprays are used to protect tea. Some of these insecticides
are long persistent organo-chlorine compounds, while others are organo-
phosphates which decompose rather rapidly. The widespread use of organo-
chlorine compounds in agriculture in the West has resulted in most of these
countries imposing stringent regulations which limit the amounts of organo-
chlorine compounds and other insecticidal residues in any food product.
Tea, being primarily exported to the West, will come under these regulations.
Already, the West German market requires that tea should not contain
more than 0.1 parts per million. Although the use of DDT on tea has been
banned with effect from January 1973, nevertheless other insecticidal sub-
stitutes have to be used to protect the tea crop. It becomes a matter of
paramount importance for the TRI to study pesticide residues in tea to ensure
that exports conform to the prescribed norms.
Estimated cost for equipment        US$47,000
(iv) Electronic Servicing Laboratories
8.        There are no facilities available for servicing sophisticated
electronic instruments. In the absence of such facilities there has been
a reluctance to order sophisticated instruments (in addition to the lack of
foreign exchange) and agricultural research has depended upon more conventional
methods of analysis. It is therefore necessary to have adequate electronic



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 3
servicing facilities which would service and repair instruments already
available and instruments to be imported. Laboratory space is available at
TRI to set up this facility although it is anticipated that the laboratory
would service electronic instruments of all agricultural research stations.
The electronic servicing laboratory would also have a small section for
servicing non-electronic instruments.
9.        It is proposed to augment the service laboratory with a fully
equipped mobile service laboratory. The estimated cost is:-
(a)  Electronic Servicing Instruments               12,000
(b)  Instrument Servicing Equipment                  8,000
(c)  Mobile Service Laboratory                      75,000
Total                               95,000
(v)  Technical Assistance
10.       The lack of economic evaluation severely hampers the work of the
TRI. The Institute has had a provision in its budget for the past 2 years
for the recruitment of an Agricultural-Economist. So far it has not been
possible to hire a suitably - expert. It is proposed that the services of
an Agricultural-Economist be obtained for a period of 24 months who would
also be expected to train an understudy. In addition, it is proposed to
provide technical assistance for 2 years for an Electronics Specialist to
assist in the setting up, running and training of staff for the electronic
servicing laboratory (paras 8 and 9). Provision is therefore made for:
Estimated Cost US$
1  Agricultural Economist - 2 years              80,000
1  Electronics Expert - 2 years                  80,000
Fellowships                                   40,000
200,000
(vi) Vehicles and Equipment
11.       The TRI's recommendations to the tea industry are first field
tested by experiments on selected estates in all agro-climatic zones. It
is only after the laboratory experiments have received estate-scale confirm-
ation that advice is given. This necessitates supervision from the TRI Stations
of widely scattered experiments on estates. These estate experiments require
extensive travelling of TRI officers to superviise and monitor the various
operations on estates. Consequently, the TRI maintains a large fleet of
vehicles for this purpose.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 4
12.       In 1973 owing to an acute financial crisis and the escalation of
cost of fuel and maintenance of vehicles, estate experiments were severely
curtailed. Fresh experiments have not been initiated owing to the lack
of vehicles for the transport of TRI supervisory staff. The TRI has 8
Divisions, 5 Sub-stations and an Estate Advisory Service for each agro-
climatic zone. The present position is that there are 20 vehicles for
estate experiments and Divisional use. Moreover, the oldest 5 vehicles
average 15 years with an average of 220,000 miles per vehicle. The re-
maining 15 have an average age of 11, with 100,000 miles per vehicle. In
order to undertake a vigorous program of estate experimentation, it is
necessary to re-equip the TRI with a new fleet of vehicle as follows:
13.       The different laboratories also require basic computation and
calculation equipment. Presently most of this work has to be done without
the aid of machines, a very time consuming method.
Estimated Cost US$
Vehicles including 10%
for spares                          90,000
Electric calculations                10,000
100,000



ANNEX 7
Appendix 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RUBBER RESEARCH INSTITIJTE
Laboratory and Minor Equipment
1.        The work of the RRI is hampered by shortages of basic equipment,
materials and chemicals for on-going prograrms, most of the items required
are minor and needed for the follcwing ongoing research projects:
(a) Tissue culture
(b) Growth Regulators
(c) Nitrogent Fixation
(d) Soil and Folium Analysis
(e) Disease Investigations
(f) Bisynthesis of Latex
(g) Specifications for Raw Rubber
(h) Deproteinized Rubber
(i) Air conditions for laboratories
The estimated cost of equipment is US$150,000.
Vehicles
2.        Laboratory findings are field tested before being recommended to
the industry. Field experiments are conducted in various rubber growing
districts, often far from the Institute. These experiments have to be serviced
regularly. In addition, the Institute provides an advisory service to all
classes of rubber growers, i.e., large estates, medium sized holdings and
small holdings, as well as an advisory service to rubber goods manufacturers.
Both necessitate regular visits to rubber growers and manufacturing concerns.
3.        The Institute owns 17 vehicles at present.  The most recent is
7 years old, while the remainder are over 13 years old. All vehicles have
done between 2-300,000 miles, and due to their age there are frequent
breakdowns in the service. It is proposed to provide spare parts for the



ANNEX 7
Appendix 2
Page 2
newer vehicles while it would not be economic to repair the remainder. The
estimated cost is as follows:
Estimated Cost
US$'000
Microbuses                                          13 /a
Vehicles                                            30 /a
Lorry CKD                                            6 Ia
Four-wheel tractors                                 10 /a
Spares for existiag vehicles                         2
I Inlds1%frpaO.
/a   Includes 10% for spares.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COCONUT RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Laboratory and Minor Equipment
1.        Shortage of basic materials is a major constraint to the Institute's
operations. For example, in the area of inter and undercropping the Institute
has emphasized pasture and fodder development. Work on development of other
intercrops has been held up because of the lack of foreign exchange to purchase
farm and processing equipment. Equipment is required for the following
research projects:
(a) Biological Control of Coconut Pests
(b)  Associate Cropping and Livestock Development
(C)  Diagnostic Plant Tissue Analysis
(d)  Research Unit for Tissue Culture Unit
(e)  General
The estimated cost of equipment is US$165,000.
Technical Assistance
2.        There is a total lack of economic evaluation capacity within the
Institute and it is therefore proposed to provide one senior level Agricultural
Economist. It may be necessary to augment this with a second Agricultural
Economist but this option should be left open.
Estimated Cost US$
1 Agricultural Economist - 2 years                  80,000
1 Unidentified            - 2 years                 80,000
160,000



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 2
Vehicles
3.        The CRI also suffers from shortage of necessary transport.  Assist-
ance required is estimated at:
Estimated Cost
US$'000
Four-wheel tractors for intercropping          25
Tractor implements                              5
Pumps and sprayers                             20
Vehicles                                       20
70



ANNEX 7
Appendix 4
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER COCONUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        Of the 1.15 million ac under coconut in Sri Lanka over 50% are
owned by smallholders with less than 10 ac, wh:Lle over 60% of the holdings
in coconut are less than 2-1/2 ac. Coconut cultivation, although prevailing
in all settled areas, is concentrated in what is known as the coconut triangle
on the west of the island. The possibility of a smallholder development
project in the coconut triangle has been discussed by GOSL and the Bank for
some time. One of the primary responsibilities of the Agricultural Economist
to be assigned to the CRI, would be the identification and preparation of
such a project. Overall responsibility for project preparation would lie with
the Coconut Development Authority. It is envisaged that the pre-investment
project would include the provision of concentrated extension services, two-
wheel tractors, implements, pumps, etc. with the CCB providing a minimum
of 4 extension officers and 1 senior extension officer. CRI would provide
technical advice and would undertake the agronomic and economic evaluation
of the project. Since the sale of copra brings; a higher income than the
sale of nuts, the possibility of cooperative processing should be explored.
The Agricultural Economist, who would be attached to CRI, would also monitor
and evaluate research in inter and undercropping. Detailed terms of reference
for the consultant should be agreed 'between GOSL, UNDP and the Association.
Assistance for final project preparation could be provided by the Association.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTUPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPANSION OF SUGAR PRODUCTION
Introduction
1.        Between 1966 and 1973 annual per capita consumption of refined
sugar varied from about 17 to 23 kgs, based on a per capita consumption
of 20 kg and a population of 13.5 M equivalent to a total of 270,000 t p.a.
During this period, domestic production of refined sugar was negligible, not
exceeding 10,000 t/annum. Consequently, imports ranged from 200,000 to
300,000 t and accounted for around 10% of total import bill. Following severe
shortage of foreign exchange and high prices in 1974, imports were drastically
reduced, to about 42,000 t, and are not expected to exceed that level in
1975.  Present imports are far short of nutritional minimum daily requirement
of 1 oz./capita/day.
2.        The climate and soils of appreciable areas of Sri Lanka's Dry
Zone have the potential to produce sugar under irrigation. Post war
research indicated a yield potential of 60-80 tons of cane and 5-7 tons
of sugar per ac. However, development of sugar production in Sri Lanka
has been delayed, partially by the small-holding structure of agriculture
and the competition of paddy for irrigation water.
Background
3.        The Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation (SLSC) was formed to administer
sugar production projects and to provide a centralized planning and execution
unit for all aspects of domestic sugar production and processing. Organized
sugar development commenced in the mid 1950's with the construction of two
sugar factories and associated plantations at Hingurana on the Gal Oya
Project, and at Kantalai in the northeastern region.  The two factories,
with a combinea capacity of 38,000 t of sugar, began operation in 1960.
During the first 13 years (1960-72) results were disappointing. At no
time did the combined output exceed 10,000 t of refined sugar or about
25% of capacity. The factories and plantations encountered a wide range
of problems including low cane yields, low sugar content, low recovery
rates, labor problems, and factory breakdowns. The low cane yields were
primarily related to inadequate preparation of fields for irrigation, poor
irrigation practices, inadequate supply of irrigation water, drainage
problems at Gal Oya and generally poor management. Water shortages were
particularly acute at Kantalai. Factory breakdowns at Kantalai were serious
since orders for spare parts for the Czech-built factory had to be placed
at least two or three years in advance, and were thus never available when



ANNEX 8
Page 2
required. The problem of spares at the Hingurana factory--Scottish equip-
ment--was not so acute, but both factories found it necessary to establish
work shops to manufacturer many of t:he required replacement parts.
4.        The SLSC undertook an extensive research program on improvement
of cane cultivation and factory management, including varietal and fertilizer
trials. Based on the results of th:Ls research program, a development plan
was drawn up promoting improved land preparation and irrigation methods,
better fertilizer application, use of new cane varieties and other improve-
ments in crop husbandry. As a result of plan implementation, cane yields
increased from an average of 16 or 17 t/ac to 40 tons and the combined
production from both plants rose from 12,000 t in 1973 to 19,100 t in 1974
or to slightly over 50% of capacity (see Table 1).
5.        Average cost of production in 1974, including depreciation and
interest on investment, was 0.98 Rs per lb (US$0.15). This was substantial-
ly less than the landed cost of imported sugar at US$0.30 per lb (Rs 2.06).
Savings of foreign exchange from the 19,100 tons produced domestically in
1974 was therefore around US$12.5 M.
6.        Parallel to the two plantaLtion schemes, SLSC promoted small-holder
cane production. Farmers have custcmarily planted about 10,000 ac to
cane for direct consumption or for processing into jaggery--an unrefined
sugar. With the establishment of the two factories, farmers in the Uda
Walawe area were encouraged to expand cane production for shipment to
either one of the plants. The schemte foundered on technical and economic
problems of cane transport. SLSC is: now operating a small, 375 ac, planta-
tion in Uda Walawe andiprocesses this cane into an improved, nonhygroscopic
type of jaggery which Las a longer shelf life and can be transported. This
intermediate way of sugar manufacturing is promoted by SLSC amongst small
holders.
GOSL Sugar Development Program
7.        Prospects for increased domestic sugar production are good, and
SLSC has plans for improvements of the plantation and factories at Hingurana
and at Kantalai.
8.        The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is currently assisting in improve-
ments in the factory at Hingurana, but due to inflation, cost overruns
occurred. In addition, the Irrigation Department of the MIPH is undertaking
land development and drainage works on the Hingurana plantation lands. Actual
field work has been contracted to the River Valley Development Board (RVDB).
No support has been secured to implement the technically and economically
sound development for the Kantalai scheme.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
The Kantalai Sugar Project
9.        The plantation includes 9,600 ac of land linked to the Kantalai
reservoir with a storage capacity of 110,000 ac feet. At present only 5,000
ac have been developed; an additional 3,100 ac have been cleared but not
developed, and the remainder of 1,500 ac is under jungle. The slow develop-
ment has been due to past water shortages. With the completion of the
Mahaweli Ganga Stage I project, due either late in 1975 or early in 1976,
sufficient water will be assured and the complete development of the remain-
ing 4,600 ac will become economically justified, doubling cane production
within a short period of time. Factory capacity for the expanded production
is available. The crushing capacity of the factory is 1,200 t/day. As-
suming a 160-day crushing season, the factory could process around 200,000
t of cane. In 1974--its best year--it processed only 101,000 t. The
factory capacity can be expanded to 2,000 t/day without structural changes.
10.       Implementation of the land development program will have to rely
upon outside assistance. SLSC has no machinery to clear jungle or develop
land and irrigation networks. Other government units such as the Irrigation
Department or DME are equally lacking equipment. Equipment once provided,
could, after completion of development of the 4,600 new acres, be applied
to improve yields on the already existing acreage through further land
levelling and improvements in irrigation infrastructure.
11.       Kantalai has recently been provided with 50 farm tractors through
a credit with the USSR, but these are unsuited for land development work
and are insufficient to provide all the needs for farm and transport equip-
ment. The plantation also needs communication equipment so that cane
harvesting can be geared to factory operation. At present, harvesting con-
tinues during periods of factory breakdowns, necessitating prolonged
stacking of cane with consequent reductions in sugar content.
12.       Even though the workshop has been in operation for several years,
some essential pieces of equipment are still lacking. With limited additions
it would be possible to improve timely availability of spare parts and thus
keep the factory in operation.
Project Support
13.       The Project would provide foreign exchange for the importation of
tractors, equipment for land preparation; communication equipment between
factory.and field; and for workshop equipment. The total cif value of the
proposed imports, excluding price contingencies, would be US$1.5 M (see Table 2).
14.       No factory machinery or equipment would be supplied, but SLSC would
provide necessary funds to assure factory capacity sufficient to process all
cane produced.



ANNLX 8
Page 4
Management
15.       SLSC has the administrative and technical ability to undertake the
necessary land preparation and :improvement program. The Kantalai project
has staff experienced in land development and sufficient manpower to work
on the 4,600 ac. The staff also has the capability eo design the plans,
stake out the fields for development, and to supervise the actual field
work. There is an adequate number of employees who have experience in
operating heavy equipment. Maintenance and repair of the equipment would
be undertaken in the Kantalai workshop or the field workshop of DME. SLSC
has its own operational budget and would not have any problems in operating
equipment provided to it.
Benefits
16.       With the machinery ancl equipment which would be provided under
the project, it would be possible to develop about 1,200 ac of new land per
year, including levelling and construction of field channels and drains.
After development of the 3,100 etc already cleared is completed (two and
one-half years), the remaining 1,500 ac of jungle land would be cleared
and developed at a rate of 1,1OC, ac/year. It would thus be possible
to develop the total 4,600 ac over four years. Land would be available
for cane production the year following development. As some land would be
required for cane cuttings and some would remain fallow between crops
utilization for cane production would be only about 80% of total. With a con-
servative estimate of a cane production of 35 tons/ac yielding 9% refined
sugar, incremental production would be 125,000 t of cane and 11,000 t
of sugar (see Table 3).
Future Development
17.       Subsequent to the opening of the 4,600 ac of new land, machinery
would be used for further development of land already under cane (see
para 10). In this second phase, return for tractor hours would be
considerably higher than during initial land opening. 1/
18.       Tractors and land preparation equipment provided under the Project
would be supplied to SLSC for the specific task of land preparation in the
Kantalai project. It is estimated that development of the 4,600 ac would
1/   With further increases in water availability following implementation
of the Mahaweli Ganga Stage III, projected for 1980, additional land
development would be undertaken. A large area, presently under jungle,
has already been reserved for the Kant.alai project. However, this
third plan development would entail expansion of factory capacity and
possible reorganization of mnanagement and estate transport. Any
assistance provided under this Project would be insufficient to undertake
Phase III development.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
correspond to a machinery usage of about 2,000 hours/year or 8,000 hours/
total, this would imply a total use of about 80% of tractor life. Completion
of land development on the area already under cane would account for the
remaining 20% of expected tractor life. Should SLSC management decide not
to undertake the additional land development, tractors and land preparation
equipment would revert to DME for re-assignment. The Association would be
informed of future use. Personnel transport, communication and workshop
equipment would be assigned to SLSC for permanent use.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
SX[ LANKA
AGi ICUTILTUEJLL DEVBLOP!ELTT P7 OJECT
SUXGAi- PFRODUCTIO0N AND COINSTJNPTIOY
1971     1972      1973     1974
2/
Local production ('000 tons)               9        7        12       19
Imports ('000 tons)!/                    283      214       190       42
Total Supply/Total p9nsumption
('000 tons)-                    292      221       202       61
Population (million)5/                  12.7     13.0      13.2     13.4
Per capita consumption (ke)6            23.4     17.3      15.5      4.6
Value of Sugar Imports
(million us$)7/               41       4o        50       28
CIF price (US$/ton)7/                   142       183      260       820
y/ Refined sugar.
2/  From IBRD Report No. 622a-CE, Table 7.4.
2/ From data provided by Food Commissioner's Department.
p  Local production plus imports, assuming no change in stocks.
From IBRD Report No. 622a-CE, Table 1.1.
/ Supply: Population (3 : 4). The resulting per capita consumption
figures differ somewhat from consumption figures provided by
the Department of Censws and Statistics (1971 : 21.8; 1972 :
17.9; 1973 : 16.3; 1974 : 6.6). The differences are probably
due to changes in stocks.
2 Source: Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.



ANN1EX 8
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGPIPULTIFAL flThTLOPPE.lT PROJECT
SRI LANIKA STJGAL CORPORATION
MACHI,FERY AND EQUIPMENT
Unit Cost   Requirement  Total Cost
Items                        (U3$'000)                   (US$'000)
Crawler Tractor with Dozer
and Ripper (180-200 HP)                  90           6            540
Crawler Tractor with
Dozer only (180-200 HP)                  85           4            340
Wheeled Tractor with
Dozer (120 HP)                           19          10            190
Sub-total                                                   1,070
Four-wheel Drive                            6.5         4             26
Staff Cars                                  4.5         1              5
Motor Cycles (350 cc)                       1.3         16            21
Stub-total                                                    r
Telephone Exchange                         25           1             25
Walkie -Talkie and
Radio Transmitters                        -           -             40
Research and Scientific
&puipment                                 -           -             20
Sub-total
Cane Slings                                 -           -             34
Sub-total                                                      7
Planning Machine                           40           1             40
Shaping Machine                            10           1             10
Universal Milling Machine                  10            1            10
Center Lathe                               10           1             10
Air Compressor                              51 
Hand Drill - Grinder                        1            1             1
Thread Cutting Machine                      5           1              5
Hydraulic Pipe Bender                       5            1             5
Workshop Tbols                              -            -             5
Sub-total                                                     91
Bowser with Stainless
Steel Tanks (1,200 gls)                  25           -             25
Sub-total                                                     2
Spare Parts - Machinery                     -           -            143
Sub-total                                                    TT
Total excluding price contingencies                        1,500



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Sd LAI\XA
IPKLNt,FITS F7OY 11;2.JA3E1 CAlh P RODIOUTTIT'
Years    Acres Developed       Cropped        Production
Year    Cumulative     Are.m    CaneJ    Sugar2
(acres)    ...(1,000 tons)...
1     1200       1200           0          0          0
2     1200       2400         960         33.6       3.0
3     1100       3500        1920         67.2       6.0
4     1100       4600        2800         98.0       8.8
5      -           -         3680        128.8      11.6
A/Based on assumption that 30,9 will be cropped for cane for processing
E/Based upon estimated yield of 35 tons per acre
S Based upon 9.) recovery



AiNEX 9
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE LOWER UVA PROJECT
Background
1.        As part of the emergency food drive, in 1972, the Cabinet approved
a program for the development of the Lower Uva. This project-would involve
the development of an extensive region (one-ninth of the country) in the
south-western part of the island. At one time this was a productive agri-
cultural area and was densely populated. (Over 1,600 ancient tanks have
been identified on the topographic sheets.) However, after the rebellion
of 1818 all the tanks and irrigation channels were destroyed and the popu-
lation dispersed. The jungle gradually took over the abandoned fields and
the region has been largely ignored since that time. At present only 18,000
ac are farmed in the entire region - 13,000 ac under irrigation and the bal-
ance under rainfed agriculture. The present population is only 74 people
per square mile compared to a national average of 525. The region has a
greater development potential than any other in Sri Lanka. However, it
lacks all of the usual amenities.
2.        The GOSL established a Cabinet Comittee to direct development of
the Lower Uva which, in addition to the reconstruction of the irrigation
tanks, the field channels, and the removal of the jungle, would include
provision for economic and social infrastructure such as roads, schools,
hospitals, domestic water supply, communication facilities, markets,
transportation facilities and public health facilities. This program
would be supervised by a TCEO Resident Project Engineer.
3.        In initiating the program, GOSL established an immediate Five-Year
Plan (1974 to 1978), aiming at developing 15,000 ac of irrigated land and an
equal acreage of rainfed agriculture. Development of 5,000 ac of irrigated
land has been entrusted to the ID, the other 10,000 ac to the TCEO. In addi-
tion, GOSL directed that various government organizations undertake investi-
gations to evolve an overall master plan for the development of the region.
The ID prepared a technical feasibility study for and has started with, the
construction of the Muthukandiya project which involves an ancient tank that
was breached many years ago. 1/
1/   The bund on this tank is so old that recent explorations have revealed
that it has nearly developed a mature soil profile with A & B horizons
clearly discernible and the C horizon beginning to form.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Investigations
4.        Because of the potential significance of this region for the devel-
opment of Sri Lanka in terms of both food production and settlement oppor-
tunity, it is essential that the entire investigation program be expedited.
However, both the ID and the TCEO are limited in the implementation capacity
of their investigation and construction programs by lack of machinery and
equipment.
Project Support
5.        To enable TCEO to carry out its responsibility in the investiga-
tions of the Lower Uva, the Project would provide about US$550,000 for the
purchase of transport, construction, surveying and drafting equipment (see
Table 1). An additional amount of US$200,000 would be used for the employ-
ment of two planning specialists for a period of four man-years to assist
in co-ordination, formulation and execution of a regional planning program.
6.        The planning specialists, assigned to the Office of the Resident
Project Engineer, would have the following broad terms of reference:
(a)  assist In a review of the status of the regional
development plan to determine whether it reflects the
various physical, economic and social factors involved
in such developments and whether it provides an adequate
framework for the development of the Lower Uva Region --
taking into account national object:Lves;
(b) identify the requirements for addit:Lonal data, if any;
gc)  lay out a program for the collection of such additional
data as may be necessary, including the organizational
responsibility, personnel requiremenits, funding
requirements, report preparation and time frame;
(d) assist in the identification and selection of minor
projects, that would harmonize with the overall master
plan in both a physical and economic sense and that
could be recommended for immediate implementation;
(e) as work on the overall plan progresses, assist in the
identification of major projects that could be recom-
*  mended for full-scale feasibility studies as well as
in the development of the plan of investigation of
such projects; and
(f)  assist with the preparation of individual feasibility
reports as well as the overall regional framework plan.
IDA would be given an opportunity to comment on the detailed terms of refer-
ence for the planning specialists who would be internationally recruited with
qualifications acceptable to the Association. Suitable assurances have been
obtained during negotiation.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOWEFi UVA PqOJFECT
MACHINERY, SURVEYDTG EQUIPMENT
AiND DaAF'TI14t SUPPLES
Cost /
Items                                                      No.     Each             Total
...... (Us' 000) ......
I. Machinery and Equipment
1. Jeeps                                              10       6.5              65
2. Tipper (small)                                      5       7.0              35
3. Farm Tractors                                      10       5.0              50
4. Lorries ( 5 Tons)                                   4       7.5              30
5. Jeep Station Wagons                                 2       7.0              14
6. Motor Graders                                       I      45.o              45
7. Front End Loaders                                   2      30.0              60
8. Water Bowsers                                       2      12.0              24
9. Dumpers ( 1/2 to 3/4 cu ya)                         5       8.0o             40
10. Concrete Mixers (5-8 cu ft)  (Mobile Type)         10       2.0              20
11. Vibrating Rollers  (Pedestrian Type)                5       3.0              15
12. Sludge Pumps (6")                                   5        2.0              10
13. Water Pumps (3" - 4")  (Centrifugal Type)          20        1.0              20
lb. Generator Ssts ( 5 kw)                              3        2.0               6
15. Vibrator  (Portable Type)                          15        2.0              30
46 
II. Surveyig Equipment
1. Duwply Levels                                      20        1.0              20
2. Levelling Staves (14 ft)                           20        0.3               6
3. Steel Bends (100 ft)                               20        0.1               2
4. Theodolites                                        10        1.0              10
Sub Total                                             a
III. Drafting Instruments
1. Planimeters                                         5        0.025)
2. Parallel Rulers (12" and 18"')                     30       '0.010)
3. Rolling Rulers                                       5       0.010)
4. Set Squares                                        100       0.020)             5
5. Protractors                                         15       0.010)
6. Scales                                              75       0.010)
7. Pentograph                                           1       0.200)
8. Leroy Sets                                           2       0.050)
9. Paper & Misc. supplies
Total                                                             507
Spare Parts - lo% of value of machinerY                                        46
Grand Total excluding price contingencies                          553
/  c.i.f.



SR LANKA
AOROIITUTUAL DE3CO1=FE4T PROJECT
IMMARY OF IDA CONTRIBUTION
.DA Credit Components
Deportment of Agriculture                                 Ministry of Brrieatisn. Power & Higheave
Rehabilitati-o                                                               Territorial   Deparutset
of                                               Deed                    civil           of           Department                                           oePron
Usit        Trp  t                                             Mlti-         Farm-    Engineering   M-ohi-ery &           of      Plantation Tree Crop        Sugar        LUa                      of
Cootl'         Pleat      Reoearch   Training  Ectenoipn       pli-ati2o      Power   Drgaioaati-o  Equoipmen1        Irrigation  Industrie- Re-eoroh   Corporation   Projeot             Total    Total
Machinryr a-d EqiLLpment             (US$)       (An-ex 2)   (Annex 2)  (Annex 2) (Annex 2)         (Annex 3)   (A-x 4  (Anna-             (Annex 5)        (Annex a)   (Arnex 5) ( x  7    (A -nne  o)   (Annex 9)    (US$'DD) (S
1.  Transport Equipment                                                      (352)      (85)      (464)          (271)                      (1.588)                       (54)    (2,118)t /    (131)          (77)       (168)       (5,308(&/   21.2
Ltrries -  2 t                            5,400                                                                                                                               1,771                                               1,776
Ltrie -  3 t                              5,500                           33        11        138             55                                                                                                                    237
Lorri _ 5 t                               7,500                                                               75                         150                                                                           30           255
Tippr                                     7,000                                                                                          595 75                                                                        35           645
Pick-np Trucks                            7,000                         105                    11 169
Bwsers                                                                                                        33                          72                                                               25          24           154
4-whee1 driv  vhicle                      6,500                         162         52        162             65                         715                         39                                    26          65         1,286
Jeep elation wagon                        7,800                                                                                           56                                                                           14            70
Mioib-s                                   53.600                                                                                                                                                                                     23 -3
Passenger vehicles - snail                3,500                                                               28                                                                                                                     28
Paesenger vehicles                        4,300                                                                                                                                  50         119             5                       164
MEotorycles -.175 cc                        750                          52        16        110             15                                                                1039                                                32
Motorcycles - 300-350 ac                  1,250                                                                                                                                 18                         21                       209
2.  Tractors, Farm and ir-eatione Equipmert                                  (466)     (1011)     (250)          (794)        (1,945)         (755)                       (30)    (1,435)2'      (63)          (34)         (80)      (5,956)2/   23.8
Tractors 35-40 hp                         5,000                         115         33                       125         1,850           125                         30       1,435          35                        50         4,100
hector impl eents          .                                             63         15                        62            95                                                                 8                                    243
Sprayers                                                                  16        10        250             10                                                                              5                                     291
Knapsack s.rayere                            130                          12         3                        15                                                                                                                     30
Peeps, Irrigation nrd Drainage
Fquipment                                                               70         41                       240                          330                                                15                        30           726
Seed Processing Bquipeet                 28,500                                                              342                                                                                                                    342
Seed dryers and chasers                     700                          14                                                                                                                                                          14
Glass houses                              7,650                         176                                                                                                                                                         176
aield aqnipmnt (cane slings)                                                                                                                                                                                34                       34
3.  Heaw  Earth Mevieg Equipment                                                                                                              (920)                      (190)                              (1,070)       (145)       (2,325)        9. 3
Motargraders                             43,000                                                                                          180                                                                           45           225
Frnont sd loaders                        30,000                                                                                           300                                                                          6o            360
Lbowers (t - 3/4  u.yd)                  8,000                                                                                           44                                                                          4o           48o
Pay leaders-crawler (2cu.yd.)            50,000                                                                                                                     150                                                             150
Pay leaders-rubber tired  (2cu.yd.)      40,000                                                                                                                       40                                                              40
Crawler tractors (with dazer and
ripper)                                 90,000                                                                                                                                                           542                       54o
Crawler traotors (aith dozer)            85,OOO                                                                                                                                                            340                       340
theeled tractors with doser              19,000                                                                                                                                                           190                        190
VI



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DAVEWPMUNT PROJECT
SUVNARY OF IDA COhMTION
IDA Credit Comnonents
Department r Agriculture                               Ntr,stry of IroEetion. Power A HAtnheas
Rehabilitation                                                           Territorial  p1      ent
of                                            Seed                    Civil          of           Department                                        Lover                 Proer    t
unit         Transport                                        Nulti-       Ferm    Engineering   lachinery &          of      Plantation Tree Crop      Sugar        Uva                    of
CostiY         Fleet     Research   Traiotng  Sxteseion     picsation      Power  Organiration   luipm rnt        Irrigation  Industries Reser-h   Cop=oration   Project          Total    Total
Machinery and  iatpment              ()           (Annex 2)  (Annex 2)  (Anex 2) (Annx 2)             Ln x                     x       i (Annex 5)      (Annex 5)   (A           nex              8)   (knex 9)    (US$'O0O) (S)
4. Construction  Wulp,nest                                                                                                             (665)                     (161)                                            (65)        (891)      !h,6
Concrete mixers                          2,000                                                                                     120                        12                                              20          152
Vibrating rollere (pedeetrian type)      3,000                                                                                     255                         6                                              15          276
Vibrators (portable type)                2,000                                                                                     170                         6                                              30          206
MScavatere                             20,000                                                                                      120                                                                                    120
Stone crushers (10/12 ton)             30,000                                                                                                                 60                                                           60
Air compreasors (500 chr)               25,000                                                                                                                50                                                           50
Air oompreaseer  (300 nfm)              17,000                                                                                                                17                                                           17
Other construction equipmeot                                                                                                                                  10                                                           10
5. Miscellaneous Enuipment ansd Materials                                            (1)                     (77)                      (592)                      (65)                   (12)        (176)        (49) -       85)      3.9
.3iorksh.p equipnent and tools                                                     14                                                                                                                91                      105
Cntniication equipment                                                                                                                                                                            65                       65
Research and Scientific equipment                                                                                                                                                                 20                       20
Sorveyi.ag equtpment:                                                                                                               0                                                                         2            2
-TelG' levele                           1,000                                                                                     300                                                                        20          320
-Levelling staves (14 ft)                 300                                                                                      90                                                                         6           96
-Steel bends (100 ft)                    100                                                                                       30                                                                         2           32
-Theodolitte                            1,000                                                                                     100                                                                        10          n10
Drafting instruments                                                                                                                48                                                                         5           53
Generator sats                           2,000                                                                                      24)                                                                        6           30
Drill Steel                                                                                              67                                                                          12                                    89
Other
6. Scares for Eristine  cauipsent                           150                                                         1,28C5                     2,590-/                   545.Z/        4                                 4,569     18.3
7.  Spares for New 83uipmentt/                                             64        20         71           115          195            395                       50        347          20          143          46        1,466      5.9
Sub Total (1 through 7)                              150           882        223         5         iLW25_       3.420         4,915        2,590          5        40 ,44SCoo 2                                     21,500     86.v
8.  Technical Assistance                     50,000_/                                                                     200                        100                       5o                                 200          550       2.2
9.  Price Contingencie 10/                                   20          _20         3P       llS            170L        _470           675          355           75        610          30          205          75        2.950      11.8
GRAMP TDTAL                                         170         1,002       253        90'         1.42?7        .OU          I550         3,045          625      5,105         260        1,705         828       250O    100.0
V/ cif cost, except for technical .s.sstance.
E Sxcludes VS$1,435,000 for,tractors for on-estate transport, which have bean included under 'Tractoro, Farm acd Irrigation fquiprent."
Sea footnote 2/.
W For rehabilitation of Departmeent of Agriculturel  transport fleet.
5/  Includes spare parts for tractor rehabilitation (US$960,000) and for operative farm po.er fleet (US$320,000).
/ For rehabilitation of heavy equipneot of Department of Machinery eand Eq1ipment.
5/ Includes spare parts for coconut processig industry (US$450,000) and for sxistirg vehicles (1$95,000).
8/ Approximately 10% of cif value of new equipnent ani nachinery.
9/ Per man-year.
2:/  Price contingenies have been based on revised CPS data (Denerber 27,1974) as follw.o                                                                                                                                                           0,
Second half 1975: 6%; 1976. 10%; 1977:8%1 H;uipment is expected to be procured
to 66% in 1976 and 31% in the f1rst 9  .onthe of 1977.  Co.nmltant services  o-ld 
continue to Jue 1978.



ANNEX 11
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year                       Quarterly                at End of
and Quarter                           Disbursement             Quarter
(U5$'000)                tUS$'000)
FY 76
March 31, 1976                             500                       500
June 30, 1976                            1,500                    2,000
FY 77
September 30, 1976                       6,050                    8,050
December 31, 1976                        8,050                   16,100
March 31, 1977                           3,100                    19,200
June 30, 1977                            3,600                   22,800
F! 78
September 30, 1977                       2,050                    24,850
December 31, 1977                           50                   24,900
March 31, 1978                               50                   24,95o
June 30, 1978                               50                   25,000



SRI LANKA
ACRICULTURAL DEVELOFPMENT PROJECT
Initial Implementation Schedule
Main Activities                      Responsible              Pre-effectiveness          Months after Effectiveness
Authority                                     1   2   3        5   6   7   8   9
1.  Establishment of PCC                     GOSL
2.  Establishment of technical               Line
sub-committees .Ministries
3.  Submission of project re-                OWL
quests to UNDP                                                    -
4.  Signabzt   of UNDP project Y             UNDP                        ._ _
requests
5. Appointment of consultant 2/              MIPH                                         _
to DME
6. Appointment of consultant 1               PCC
for incentive study
7.  Agreement of Increased 0 & M             GO6L
allocation to ICEDO 4/
8.  Implementation of increased 0 & M        GOSL                                        Completed by FY 79
allocation to TCEO
9.  Construction of Seed Storage $J          MAL                                         Completed by June 30, 1978
10.  Provision of Credit                      GC6L
to extension officers
11.  Provision  of Credit                     GCSL
to estates
2 Requests for UNDP assistance to complement Project imputs for Department of Agriculture
(Annex 2) and Tree Crop Research Institutes (Annex 7).
2/  Based on T.O.R. Annex 5, Appendix 1.
Based on T.O.R. Annex 6, Appendix 1.
During negotiations.
To be completed within 18 months of Project Effectiveness.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT OF FARM TRACTORS AND ON-ESTATE TRANSPORT VEHICLES
1.        It is important that farm tractors for the food crop subsector
(Annex 4) and vehicles for the estate sector (Annex 6) would be imported on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines, bearing in mind the buyer's preferences resulting from need
for standardization and the availability of repair facilities. Imports of
tractors would be handled by the Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation and imports
of trucks by resident supplier's agents. To meet the situation the following
scheme would be adopted:
(a) The Project Co-ordinating Committee (PCC) established by
GOSL (paragraph 6.01 of the main report) would be respon-
sible for the procurement of goods. Unit price quotations
would be obtained fo;r varying quantities from suppliers
in IDA member countrLes. Quotations would be sought
using international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with IDA guidelines. All suppliers sub-
mitting quotations would be required to give full
particulars as to proposed pre-sale and after-sale
service arrangements, including provision for spare
parts equal to 10% of the cif price of the vehicle
supplied. Any supplier not providing satisfactory
assurance as to service arrangement would, subject to
IDA concurrence, be dLisqualified by PCC.
(b)  The technical sub-committees in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Land and the Ministry of Plantation Industries
(MPI), the latter acting through the Tea and Rubber
Control Department and the Coconut Development Authority
(CDA), would advertise widely (also through commercial
banks, the People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon) that
farm tractors and tractors/lorries for on-estate trans-
port would be imported and would state the quoted prices
and service arrangements offered by the different suppliers.
Based on this farmers, estates and bought-leaf factories
would be required to apply for vehicles and to state their
first and second choices, at the same time they would make
an application for a loan, if required. The sub-committees
would vet the applications to determine priority, in the
case of estates, using the criteria suggested in Annex 6.
para. 37.  These would then be resubmitted to PCC.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(c) PCC would aggregate orders received according to first
vehicle choice using priorities established by the MPI
sub-committees. If the aggregate orders for a particular
model came to below the minimum acceptable order for that
manufacturer at the unit price quoted for varying
quantities, PCC would discard the first choice for those
estates and proceed on the basis of the second or other
choices as agreed by the Association. PCC would send
IDA its analysis of bids and its recommendations for the
placing of orders. IDA would then promptly inform PCC
whether it had any objections to the recommended orders
with its reasons.
(d) PCC would subsequently place orders with the selected
suppliers, either through SLTC or through the agent, at
the unit prices quoted. PCC would also enter into con-
tracts with the selected suppliers which would specify
service arrangements and performance assurances including
the supply of spare parts. Agents representing suppliers
would be required to provide post-warranty service.
(e) PCC would arrange through SLTC or the suppliers' repre-
sentatives in Sri Lanka for the importation, insurance
and transportation to Sri Lanka of tractors and lorries.
Subsequently, tractors and lorries would be distributed
by SLTC or suppliers' agents, who would perform pre-sales
services and sell tractors and lorries to those buyers
whose applications had been approved.
(f)  All imports of new tractors and lorries would be com-
plemented by importation of fast moving spare parts at
the value of 10% of cif costs of imported vehicles. It
would be the responsibility of SLTC or suppliers' repre-
sentatives to maintain central stocks of these spare
parts for release to vehicles imported as and when
required.
(g) In the event of PCC placing orders over the reasonable
objections of IDA on the grounds of inconsistency with
the procedures or, if the terms of such orders mate-
rially differed from those on which quotations were
based, IDA would reserve the right to cancel from the
Project, such amount as it considered represented expendi-
tures under such orders.
2.        It is expected that the above procurement method and procedures
would take account of individual preferences, limit proliferation of makes
and types and tend to lower prices while strengthening the services provided
by manufacturers approved agents which is considered essential to the Project.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL D)EVELOPMENT PROJECT
BENEFITS -/
1.        The primary project benefits to the economy of Sri Lanka would be
an early and sustained impact on foodgrain and sugar production and, at the
same time, achieving balanced growth throughout all sectors of the economy.
This would affect very considerable long run foreign exchange savings through
import substitution. Currently, many ongoing GOSL programs and projects are
not realizing anything near their full potential. In several, the infrastruc-
ture or trained manpower exists, but the program is hampered by lack of basic
capital equipment. By providing foreign exchange for the importation of this
equipment, the Project would help realize tlhe vast potential for increasing
foodgrain production, particularly in the Dry Zone, increasing sugar produc-
tion, and increasing foreign exchange earnings from tree crops. The main
criteria for selection of the prcoject components, whether in the private or
public sector, were their impact on the small farmer and the poorer sections
or the rural population, and, at the same ensuring that benefits should
not be short-term but rather should have a sustained impact.
2.        The impact of the various subprojects would be felt throughout the
island but would vary from one ecological zone to another. Benefits derived
from ongoing programs, such as Department of Agriculture's research and ex-
tension and TCEO's irrigation operation and maintenance, would be more wide-
spread than those derived from discreet projects. Thus, the impact from the
Kantalai Sugar Project in the northeastern region and from the speedy com-
pletion of two unfinished projects in-the Irrigation Department (Wahalkade
and Muthuaiyankaddu), would be confined to specific areas.
3.        Tree crops - with the exception of coconut which is cultivated in
all settled areas - are grown in the Wet Zone (75Z of the rural population
live in the densely populated Wet Zone). Benefits derived from project
support to the tree crop sector, in particular for tea and rubber, would
therefore be widely spread throughout the Zone. They would affect most of
the 700,000 persons employed in the sector, the poorest section of the
population, by providing a greater assurance of employment for tea pluckers
and rubber tappers. In addition, the tree crop incentive study, which would
also examine estate workers housing conditions and nutritional levels, would
provide the basis for a long-term policy frasmework for the future of the
industry. The smallholder coconut study wotild provide the basis for future
projects in that sector.
1/ Detailed description and quantitative assessment of benefits associated
with individual Project components are given in Annexes 2-8.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
4.        The TCEO has the responsibility for the operation and maintenance
of the majority of established irrigation projects down to field channels,
as well as construction of small irrigation projects. The DME is the central
holding pool for machinery and equipment and is responsible for its repair,
maintenance and rental in compliance with priorities established by the
MIPH. Support under the Project to TCEO and DME would focus on activities
(primarily paddy production) in the Dry Zone. The activities of these two
organizations affect practically all paddy farmers in the Dry Zone, esti-
mated at some 320,000 farm families, or about 13% of the total population
of Sri Lanka. Paddy, the most important staple food crop, and other annual
crops are produced mainly on smallholdings. Forty eight percent of holdings
are less than one ac and 88% are under 5 ac. The average is about 2.5 ac.
In the Dry Zone, the average paddy holding is 1.48 ac. Thus,the majority
of beneficiaries would be small farmers. Similarly support for the rehabili-
tation and expansion of the existing fleet of agricultural tractors, would
assist smallholder farmers throughout the Dry Zone.
5.        Finally Project support to the Department of Agriculture, in con-
junction with UNDP, for research, training, extension, seed multiplication
and certification, and plant protection services, would bring longer term
benefits to the agricultural population throughout the island. Moreover,
the Project would include funds for the preparation of a future project
(Lower Uva).
6.        The quantifiable benefits can be summarized as follows (for
details see Annexes as indicated):



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Action resulting in benefits
and year when sustained         Annual sustained
Project Component               increase achieved             production increases
1) Support for seed multi-   Yield increases of at least    75,000 tons of rice;
plication, preparation    5% for paddy and 15% for          6,000 tons of maize;
and processing (Annex 3)  other cereals and pulses.         3,500 tons of sorghum;
Year 1978/79 onwards.            5,500 tons of pulses.
2) Spare parts for rehabi-   Timely cultivation would          45,000 tons of rice.
litation of 1,600          lead to yield increases
tractors and import-       of about 10% duiring Maha
ation of new units         and to double cropping on
(Annex 4)                  about 30% of the land
affected. Year 1977/78
onward.
3) Support to TCEO            Better distribution of water   36,000 tons of rice.
(Annex 5)                  and water flows, would lead
to crop yield increase of 5%
in TCEO controlled irrigation
areas.   Year 1978/79 onwards.
4) Spare parts to rehabi-    Deve:Lopment of new paddy          2,300 tons of rice.
litate DME equipment       lands.  Year 1978/80 onwards.
(Annex 5)
5) Equipment to the ID        Completion of these two           1,200 tons of rice /1
for the completion of      projects two years earlier
the Wahalkade and          than would otherwise have
Muthuaiyankaddu            been the case.  Years 1976
Projects (Annex 5)         and '1977.
6) Equipment for land         Development of 4,600 acres        130,000 tons of cane
development for the        of new land over four year       (11,500 tons of sugar)
Kantalai Sugar Project    for sugar cane production.
(Annex 8)                  Year 1980/81.
Total (rounded)      155,000 tons of rice /1
15,000 tons of cereals
& pulses;
11,500 tons of sugar
/1   Without the Project, these suLb-projects would be completed 2-3 years later.
Production as shown refers to two years incremental output only and
is omitted from the total.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
7.        Thus, support to the food crop and sugar subsectors would result
in incremental production from about year four onwards of approximately
155,000 tons of rice, 15,000 tons of cereals and pulses and 11,500 tons
of sugar. Using the average 1980-85 projected prices in 1973 constant
dollars, 1/ the estimated value of these commodities would be: rice
US$37.2 M, cereals and pulses US$1.1 M and sugar US$2.6 M, a total of
about US$41 M per annum.
8.        The incremental rice production would be equivalent to about half
of total current rice imports (running at 338,000 tons in 1973, and 297,000
tons in 1974), and is also equivalent to about 15% of current rice consump-
tion. Based on the 1974 data, when rice imports accounted for 15.8% of
total value of imports, a production increase of this size would cut Sri
Lanka's total import bill by 9%. Import savings are thus considerable. 2/
However, the benefits derived from the rehabilitation of tractors and equip-
ment would only lead to sustained production increases if followed by a con-
tinued supply of spares and replacements to maintain the capital stock at
the levels to which they have been brought as a result of the project.
Similarly it would be essential that adequate operation and maintenance
budgets are made available after disbursement. Assurances to these effects
have been obtained.
9.        In addition to direct and sustained production increases, the
project would contribute to fuller employment in the rural areas and would
enhance foreign exchange earning through the productiot of better quality
tree crop products. Support to the tea and rubber subsectors would lower
the cost of production and hence would lead to a general improvement in the
financial position of the estate sector. This would also result in a greater
assurance of employment for tea pluckers and rubber tappers. The provision
of on estate transport would help reduce foreign exchange expenditure through
the substitution by tea factories of fossil fuel (imported) with solid fuel.
Support to the Department of Agriculture would improve research, extension,
information and training of extension officers all necessary to support the
long range program aimed at achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency. In addition
transport would be provided to the agricultural, tea, rubber and coconut
1/   IBRD Commodity Forecasts - Commodities and Export Projections Division,
Economic Analysis and Projection Department, Development Policy Staff,
May 1975. The average f.o.b. 1980-1985 prices in 1973 constant dollars
are: rice (5% broken, Bangkok) US$240/ton; maize (US No. 2 Yellow,
Gulf port) US$78/ton; sorghum (US No. 2 Milo Yellow, Gulf port) US$60/
ton; sugar (Carribbean) US$224/ton. Landed prices for these commodi-
ties would be higher by about US$50/ton; however in the case of rice,
this would be offset by low prices for the poorer quality grain gen-
erally imported by Sri Lanka.
2/   The increase in rice production of 155,000 tons per annum translate
to import savings of US$37.2 M. This is gross. The increased fuel
consumption, cost of spare parts and replacements, as well as other
input costs, would have to be subtracted to obtain net import savings.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
extension staff. It has been estimated that extension staff are currently
spending up to 40% of their time waiting for, or using public transport.
Their effectiveness would be greatly enhanced and in the case of the tea
and rubber, transport availability would allow more time for smallholder
extension presently curbed since inspection of subsidy programs takes
priority.
10.       Support is being provided for the importation of capital equip-
ment for ongoing GOSL programs and for the rehabilitation of vehicles and
equipment both in the public and private sectors. Thus sunk costs are
high, incremental costs low and benefits attributable to incremental cost
very substantial. For example, the extension staff are well trained, but
only 60% effective, hence the only incremental cost required to increase
their efficiency, is the capital and operating cost for a motorcycle;
similarly, equipment being rehabilitated may be non-operational while a
small investment in replacement parts would lead to an almost infinite rate
of return (the incremental capital cost for tractor rehabilitation is about
US$1 M and yields an estimated benefit, for the remaining life of the tractors,
of 40,000 tons of rice valued at US$9.6 M per annum).



IBRD 11762
{j   C  j;  1!  ; i  ;@W5rgl' <t-' v f l > r 0 SER t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STIMER~7
.1  -c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
z                                                          i
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7lg   : y 1; r;; 0 8 } g 4 i r Vd^ : W j . . E . L z r f 0 . . N i < =t 4 :
y          i;  ;  \$44           z    jXi   l  0q9        r;3UtSt;P;;t80g        
~~~LLUWI ...,z..LU--,fi %I
2  m        i 0         ;~~~~_ X__3               /t  E     ~       W        \           -'.0g C  
sZ al 0 f f i X_  
s   _  \  :  .;  r  a ; 0 + S i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                           t;       ._..I Ej






SRI LANKA-
LAND UTKLIZAT7I
V                                                         t
ft     I       ITRINCOMA
~~ehGar ~     ~            qw 
I"-'~~~~sJ    og"T         
MANNAR               i                             42OONA
A  (~~~~~~~~
II   ~   kNUWARA ELWA
AJfIKEGALLA~    K    ~               / ~            AMPARAL
! ~~~~~~kj  m ~    ~    ~ ~  
E                                                                ,i     4
Rw-  C
ftALkE~~   MATA   TALE
Sn~~~~~~~
lann   canB



